The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance Financial statements 53 Investors Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum The group financial statements have been prepared in accordance funding requirements and their interaction effective from with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted 1st January 2008.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or liability may financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding convention, as modified by the assets held for sale and financial requirement.
The group will apply IFRIC 14 from 1st January 2008, assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value but it is not expected to have any impact on the groups accounts.
In June 2007, the management and organisation of the Continental These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with European segment was divided into the Nordic and Continent the accounting policies, set out below, which have been consistently regions.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect applied to all the years presented, except for those where IFRS 1 the change.
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, Modeluxe is presented as a discontinued operation in the prior year, permitted companies adopting IFRS for the first time last year to following its disposal in October 2006. take exemptions.
The presentation of other income and other operating expenses IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary in the 2006 income statement has been changed to show the amounts amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements on a gross basis.
This is consistent with the presentation in 2007.
Capital disclosures, were adopted in 2007.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments.
This standard does not Consolidation have any impact on the classification and valuation of the groups The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements financial instruments.
of the company and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities The following standards, amendments and interpretations to over which the group has the power to govern the financial and published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more on or after 1st January 2007 but they are not relevant or have no than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated material impact to the groups operation: from the date on which control is transferred to the group and are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, requires consideration of transactions involving the issuance of equity instruments, where the identifiable All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity consolidation process.
instruments issued in order to establish whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2. Business combinations IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, prohibits Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill accounted for using the purchase method acquisition accounting.
and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets carried The cost of a business acquisition is the aggregate of fair values, at at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly The following standards and interpretations relevant to the group attributable to the business combination.
The cost of a business have been published and are mandatory for the groups accounting combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the period beginning 1st January 2008 or later periods but which the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities group has not early adopted: that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date.
IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs effective from The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively 1st January 2009.
The amendment to the standard is still subject obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible asset, such as customer to endorsement by the European Union.
It requires an entity contracts, brands, patents or royalties, is recognised if it meets the to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, definition of an intangible asset in IAS 38 Intangible assets, and construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition those borrowing costs will be removed.
The group will apply is less than the fair value of the groups share of the net assets of IAS 23 Amended from 1st January 2009.
The expected impact the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the is still being assessed in detail by management.
IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1st January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The group will apply IFRS 8 from 1st January 2009.
The expected impact is still being assessed in detail by management.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 54 Financial statements Investors Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Non-current assets held for sale Property, plant and equipment Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices.
are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair values less All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent costs to sell.
depreciation, except for land, which is shown at cost.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale items.
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as Textile assets such as garments and linen and washroom equipment met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal which are owned by the group entities where substantially all the group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment is retained by Management must be committed to the sale which should be group entities are capitalised as fixed assets and depreciated over expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one their estimated useful lives.
year from the date of classification.
Depreciation of assets is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its Segment reporting estimated useful life, as follows: A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged a Land and buildings in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum on an estimate of the different from those of other business segments.
A geographical buildings value of freehold properties and leasehold properties with segment is engaged in providing services within a particular 50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
This rate has economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that been determined having regard to the groups practice to maintain are different from those of segments operating in other these assets in a continual state of sound repair and to extend economic environments.
and make improvements from time to time.
Freehold land is not Based on the risks and returns, the directors consider that the depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings are depreciated primary reporting format is by business segment and that the by equal instalments over the period of the lease.
secondary reporting format is by geographical analysis by origin Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life and destination.
of the related asset or to the scheduled date of the next major renovation, whichever is sooner.
Foreign currency translation b Plant and machinery a Functional and presentation currency Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per annum, depending Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups on the class of the asset.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
c Textile assets and washroom equipment The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, Depreciated at rates of 20% to 33%, depending on class of asset, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
and augmented where necessary by amounts to cover wastage, obsolescence and loss.
b Group companies The results of group entities that have a functional currency different When properties, plant or equipment are sold, the difference from the presentation currency sterling are translated into sterling between the sales proceeds and net book value is included in the at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated income statement.
Exchange differences arising on Residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually retranslation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
An assets carrying amount is written In addition, exchange differences arising from the translation of down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of such investments are also taken to shareholders equity.
is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing value in use, assets are grouped at Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign cash generating units and cash flow forecasts are made on the entity and translated at the closing rate.
assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally approved by the directors.
These cash flows Pre-contract bid costs are discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until the group is group, adjusted for the particular risks of the cash generating unit appointed preferred bidder.
Preferred bidder status provides sufficient being reviewed for impairment.
confidence that the conclusion of the contract is probable, the outcome can be reliably measured and is expected to generate Intangible assets sufficient net cash inflows to enable recovery.
Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder are a Goodwill capitalised onto the balance sheet as prepayments.
The prepayment Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over is expensed to the income statement over the period of the contract.
the fair value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net Costs, which have been expensed, are not subsequently reinstated of amortisation prior to 1st January 2005 in respect of business when a contract award is achieved.
combinations made since 1st January 1998 is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations made on or before 31st December 1997 remains eliminated against reserves.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance Financial statements 55 Investors Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating units.
a Fair value hedge Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are fully designated impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the except for goodwill eliminated against reserves.
hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Computer software Intellectual property rights The group has one fair value hedge in respect of a cross currency Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis fixed to floating interest rate swap.
If the hedge no longer meets of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific the criteria for hedge accounting, the exchange component of software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful the derivative will continue to be taken to the income statement lives not exceeding three years.
other gains and losses along with the exchange on the related borrowings.
The interest component of the derivative item will be Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
and unique software products controlled by the group, and that it is estimated will generate economic benefits exceeding costs b Net investment hedge beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective include the costs of software development employees.
portion of the hedge is recognised directly against reserves.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately Computer software development costs recognised as assets are in the income statement.
amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding five years.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income c Customer contracts statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Intangible assets arising either from legal or contractual rights which For the groups business disposals in 2006 this was not relevant have been purchased are required to be separately identified from as they have not formed part of a net investment hedge relationship.
goodwill and are stated at historical cost, or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, at fair value.
c Cash flow hedge The fair value attributable to the customer contracts is determined The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives by discounting the expected future cash flows to be generated that are designated to qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital in equity.
The groups cash flow hedges which are in respect of for the group.
This amount is amortised over the period in which cross-currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps result the company is expected to benefit from the contracts acquired, in recognition in either the currency translation component of equity over periods ranging from two to five years.
or in the hedging reserve.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the hedge Financial assets no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative The group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as loans gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
When a forecast the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
that was reported in equity will be transferred to the income statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not They are included in current assets.
These are classified as nonqualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the current assets.
Loans and receivables are classified as trade and income statement.
other receivables in the balance sheet.
e Energy contracts Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The group occasionally takes out energy contracts in relation to Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a the supply of gas and electricity.
Such contracts are not recognised derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured as derivative financial instruments as they are held with the purpose at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the the entitys expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The group designates certain Inventories derivatives as either i hedges of the fair value of recognised assets Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
or liabilities fair value hedge : or ii hedges of a particular risk Cost is determined using the first in, first out FIFO method.
associated with a recognised asset or liability cash flow hedge : The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises of raw or iii hedges of net investments in foreign operations net materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production investment hedge.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
The group documents at the inception of the transaction the Full provision is made for obsolete, defective and slow moving stock.
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items and its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
The fair value of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 17.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 25.
The group holds no trading derivatives.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 56 Financial statements Investors Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Trade receivables Current and deferred income tax Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade in the countries where the groups subsidiaries operate and generate receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the taxable income.
group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the change in on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets provision is recognised in the income statement.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates Cash and cash equivalents and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax original maturities of three months or less.
Share capital Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are recorded at par probable that future taxable profits will be available against which value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where shares the temporary differences can be utilised.
are issued above par value, the proceeds in excess of par value Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that are recorded in the share premium account.
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is Where any group company purchases the companys equity share recognised in equity.
capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Employee benefits companys shareholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued a Pension obligations or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or The group operates various pension schemes.
The schemes reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable are funded through payments to insurance companies or a trustee incremental costs, is included in equity attributable to the administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of Trade payables pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Borrowings The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current Any difference between the amount initially recognised net of and prior periods.
transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the The net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined effective interest method.
Commitment fees for undrawn committed benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit borrowing facilities are expensed during the period to which obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, they relate.
together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated Borrowings are classified as non-current liabilities where the group annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated Borrowing costs in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily pension liability.
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until the asset Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, is complete and ready for use.
are recognised in operating costs in the Income Statement together with interest costs on plan liabilities and the expected return All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement on plan assets.
in the period in which they are incurred.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and change in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged to the statement of recognised income and expense net of deferred tax.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance Financial statements 57 Investors For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions b Sale of goods revenue to publicly or privately administered pension insurance or trustee For non-contract based business, revenue represents the value administered plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee Leases benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified in the future payments is available.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property b Share based payment plans and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease The groups management awards employees share options, from payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges time to time, both on a discretionary and non-discretionary basis so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
which are subject to vesting conditions.
The economic cost of The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance charges, are awarding the share options to its employees is recognised as an included in other long-term payables.
The interest element of employee benefit expense in the income statement equivalent the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is determined period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on by reference to the Black-Scholes option pricing model, for those the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant schemes which have no market-based vesting conditions and the and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over Monte-Carlo Model for the awards under the Performance Share the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
The charge is recognised in the Income Statement over the vesting period of the award.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made The proceeds received are credited to share capital nominal value under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor and share premium when the options are exercised.
are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over c Termination benefits the period of the lease.
Termination benefits are payable when an employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever Dividend distribution an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is shown recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in to be committed to either: terminating the employment of current the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Income statement presentation d Holiday pay a Exceptional items Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such Items that are either material in size or non operating in nature are charged to the Income Statement as the benefits are earned.
are presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair The directors are of the opinion that the separate recording value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
of exceptional items provides helpful information about the groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events, which may Provisions give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include, Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and legal claims inter alia, restructuring of businesses, gains and losses on disposal are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive of properties, impairment of goodwill and non-recurring income.
obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than not that b Amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: property rights and the amount has been reliably estimated.
These are presented separately in the income statement as they arise from acquisitions.
Revenue recognition Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, net of value added tax and other similar sales based taxes, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: a Service income Income received or receivable in respect of service income is credited to revenue as and when services are rendered in respect of linen and washroom services.
Revenue is recognised on a per item basis for delivery of laundered textiles to hotels and hospitals.
Revenue for supply and laundering of workwear is recognised on a regular, periodic basis in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 58 Financial statements Investors Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty b Pensions and other post-employment benefits The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in The group operates a number of defined benefit schemes within conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates the UK and the Continent note 32.
As at 31st December 2007 and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported the present value of the groups defined benefit obligation for funded amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related plans was a surplus of 11.6 million and a deficit of 17.3 million disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are based for unfunded plans.
on historical experience and various other factors that are believed The calculations of the recognised assets and liabilities from to be reasonable under the circumstances.
This forms the basis of such plans are based upon statistical and actuarial calculations.
making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities In particular the present value of the defined benefit obligation that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may is impacted by assumptions on discount rates used to arrive at differ from these estimates.
the present value of future pension liabilities, and assumptions The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on future increases in salaries and benefits.
Furthermore, the groups ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary independent actuaries use statistically based assumptions covering if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate areas such as future withdrawals of participants from the plan was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
and estimates on life expectancy.
The actuarial assumptions used Such changes are recognised in the period in which the estimate may differ materially from actual results due to changes in market is revised.
and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of participants and other changes in the factors The key assumptions about the future and key sources of estimation being assessed.
These differences could impact the assets or liabilities uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
The triennial the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months valuation of the main UK pension scheme took place in are described below.
February 2007. a Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, c Income taxes including goodwill At 31st December 2007, the net liability for current income taxes The group has property, plant and equipment with a carrying is 5.7 million and the net liability for deferred income taxes is value of 469.4 million note 11, goodwill with a carrying value 47.7 million as disclosed in note 20.
Estimates may be required of 383.7 million note 9 and intangible assets with a carrying value in determining the level of current and deferred income tax assets of 40.1 million note 10.
These assets are reviewed annually for and liabilities, which management believes are reasonable and impairment as described above intangible assets and property, adequately recognises any income tax related uncertainties.
To assess if any impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash flows expected to result Various factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects on from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal.
Actual outcomes the income tax assets and liabilities.
These include changes in tax could vary from such estimates of discounted future cash flows.
laws, tax rates, interpretations of existing tax laws, future levels Factors such as changes in the planned use of buildings, machinery of spending and in overall levels of future earnings.
or equipment, or closure of facilities, the presence or absence of competition, or lower than anticipated sales could result in shortened useful lives or impairment.
