The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance Financial statements 97 Investors Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements These financial statements for the parent company are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out below.
Fixed assets Land and buildings are shown at original historical cost or subsequent valuation.
Other fixed assets are shown at cost.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Straight line % Plant and machinery 1050 Motor vehicles 25 Investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividend distribution Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised as a liability to the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on a full provision basis, without discounting, on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except where otherwise required by Accounting Standards, no timing differences are recognised in respect of: a Property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to sell the asset: b Gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: c Additional tax which would arise if profits of overseas subsidiaries were distributed, and d Deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Pension costs It is the policy of the company to fund defined benefit pension liabilities, on the advice of external actuaries, by payments to schemes controlled by independent trustees.
Pension costs are charged against profits on a systematic basis over the service lives of the eligible employees, based on payroll, actuarial methods and assumptions, in accordance with the actuaries advice.
The costs of defined contribution schemes or pension arrangements of a similar nature are charged against income as contributions become payable to the relevant scheme or arrangement.
The companys pension cost charged to the income statement is in accordance with FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The FRS 17 valuation has been carried out at bid-value based on the recent amendment to FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The companys share of the defined benefit surplus or deficit is recognised in the balance sheet.
Key assumptions and other disclosures for this plan are included in the disclosures in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 98 Financial statements Investors Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements continued Derivatives and other financial instruments Financial instruments Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively.
The company has availed itself of the exemption not to present FRS 29 disclosures in the notes to the entity financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented within the consolidated financial statements.
Financial instruments comprise non-derivative financial assets and liabilities, including amounts owed by and to group companies and borrowings and financial derivatives, whose value changes in line with movements in market rates.
The company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Fair value hedging, cash flow hedging and net investment hedging is applied.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
The companys financial assets are stated at the lower of their initial cost including accrued interest receivable and their estimated recoverable amount.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as borrowings.
They are stated at their redeemable value, including accrued interest payable, less transaction costs that have not yet been recognised in the income statement.
Where the change in value of a non-derivative financial liability, due to the movement in market interest rates, has been hedged with a financial derivative, its value is adjusted for the change in market value due to the financial risk being hedged.
Where such fair value hedging relationships exist, the change in the value of the liability being hedged should broadly offset the change in market value of the hedging instrument and any difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their market value in the balance sheet and are classified as current assets or liabilities, unless they form part of a hedging relationship, in which case their classification follows the classification of the hedged financial asset or liability.
Thus all currently held derivative financial instruments are classified as long-term.
Interest expense reflects the underlying cost of borrowing arising from interest rate swaps.
Net payments and receipts under interest rate swap contracts are accrued over the period to which they relate and added to or credited against interest expense.
No accounting entries are required for the principal amount of interest rate swaps as it is purely a notional figure and does not represent an asset, a liability or a contingency.
Employee share schemes In accordance with the FRS 20 Accounting for share based payments, an expense is recognised in the income statement for the award to employees of shares in the companys UK Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme.
Cash flow statement and related party disclosures The parent company is included in the consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of the FRS 1 revised 1996.
The company is also exempt under the terms of the FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of The Davis Service Group Plc or investees of The Davis Service Group Plc.
