The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Statements Governance 02 How we performed 32 Corporate governance statement 48 Independent auditors report 105 Advisers 04 Chairman and Chief Executives 33 Board of Directors 49 Consolidated income statement 105 Financial calendar Financial statements introduction 38 Report on directors remuneration 50 Consolidated statement 105 Shareholder information Investors 105 of recognised income and expense 06 Business review 42 Directors report 105 Website 06 Our markets 46 Directors responsibilities 51 Consolidated balance sheet for the financial statements 08 Our business 52 Consolidated cash flow statement 10 Our risks 53 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 12 Our employees 14 Our environmental impact 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16 Operations review Advisers 96 Parent company financial statements 16 Nordic 20 Continent Investment Bankers Dresdner Kleinwort 97 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 24 UK and Ireland Stockbrokers Dresdner Kleinwort 28 Financial review 99 Notes to the parent company Oriel Securities financial statements 103 Independent auditors report Solicitors Slaughter and May, London for the parent company Auditors  LLP, London 104 Five year record Registrars Equiniti Limited What we do Financial calendar Interim results announced August Final results announced February The Davis Service Group is a focused Ordinary interim dividend paid October Ordinary final dividend paid May European textile maintenance Annual general meeting April business.
Our core strategy is Shareholder information to build market leading positions Enquiries relating to shareholders, such as queries concerning notification of change of address, dividend payments and lost share certificates, should be made to the companys registrars.
The company has a share account, management and dealing facility for all shareholders via Equiniti Limited Shareview.
This offers shareholders secure access to their account details held on the share register to amend address information and payment instructions directly, as well as providing a simple and convenient way of buying and selling from which to deliver revenue the companys ordinary shares.
For internet services visit www.
co. uk or the investor relations sections of the companys website www.
The Shareview Dealing service is also available by telephone on 08456 037037 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm Monday to Friday.
growth both organically and by The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the companys registrars to pay them directly into a bank or building society account: tax vouchers are then mailed to shareholders separately.
Dividend mandate forms are available from the registrars either from their website www.
This method also avoids the risk making acquisitions.
We manage of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
our operations efficiently to deliver Website Financial information about the company including the Annual and Interim reports, public announcements and share price data are sustainable profit growth, stable available from the companys website at www.
co. uk, which also contains further information about the group and links to the websites of its subsidiaries.
cash flow and higher levels of return Sunlight Service Group www.
co. uk Sophus Berendsen www.
FSC Radley Yeldar Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures Design and production there is an audited chain of custody www.
com from the tree in the well-managed forest CTD through to the nished document Print.
CTD are FSC and ISO 14001 in the printing factory.
The document is printed ISO 14001 on Era Silk, which is produced A pattern of control for an environmental from 50% genuine waste pulp, management system against which an the balance being ECF pulp from organisation can be credited by a third party.
The paper is also FSC certied The CO emissions produced from the 2 and manufactured at an ISO 14001 production and distribution of our Annual accredited mill.
report and accounts 2007 have been neutralised through an agricultural methane capture project in Germany.
