Notice to reconvene the adjourned Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the adjourned first Annual General Meeting of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be reconvened at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL on 16 May 2008 at 12 noon for the following purposes.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as an Ordinary Resolution: 1.
That the accounts and the reports of the Directors and of the Auditors for the period ended 31 December 2007 be received and approved.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Secretary Trafalgar Court Les Banques St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3QL Date Notes: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Computershare Investor Services CI Limited, Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PW not later than 12 noon on 14 May 2008 3.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting and voting should he or she so wish.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members not later than 12 March 2008.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company.
As at 2 April 2008, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 867,126,287 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 867,126,287 voting rights.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 35
