The UNITE Group plc the Company is a company domiciled in the The accounting policy descriptions set out the areas where judgement needs United Kingdom.
exercising, the most significant of which are as follows: Valuation of investment property and investment property a Basis of preparation under development The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries The Group uses the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in jointly value of its investment properties.
The valuation is based upon assumptions controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs and the about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
The valuers also make reference to market Both the parent company financial statements and the group financial statements evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Properties under development and inventories Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
On publishing Properties under development and inventories are carried at the lower of the parent company financial statements here together with the group financial cost and net realisable value.
However the valuation of properties under statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of development is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements and the the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and same factors affecting investment properties as described above apply.
Net realisable value is assessed by the Group, having regard to suitable The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied external advice and knowledge of recent comparable transactions.
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Trade and other receivables Measurement convention The Group is required to judge when there is sufficient objective evidence The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the to require the impairment of individual trade and other receivables following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Investment property Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the Investment property under development estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the Interest rate swaps revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Land and buildings included in property, plant and equipment Accounting standards adopted b Basis of consolidation IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures, which adds further quantitative and i Subsidiaries qualitative disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
IFRS 8 Operating segments, introduces the management approach to segment reporting.
IFRS 8, Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2009 financial statements, requires the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable are segments performance and allocate resources to them.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the Accounting standards and interpretations issued date that control ceases.
but not adopted ii Joint ventures Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs removes the option to expense borrowing costs and requires that an entity capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as a part of the cost of established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements that asset.
Although revised IAS 23 will be mandatory for the Groups 2009 include joint ventures initially at cost subsequently increased or decreased by the financial statements it will not constitute a change in accounting policy for Groups share of total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures on an equity the Group.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions requires a share-based payment arrangement in which an entity receives goods or services as Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses consideration for its own equity instruments to be accounted for as an equityarising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated settled share-based payment transaction, regardless of how the equity financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures instruments are obtained.
IFRIC 11 will become mandatory for the Groups 2008 are eliminated to the extent of the Groups retained interest in the entity.
financial statements, with retrospective application required.
It is not expected to Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
where the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets or an impairment in value of fixed assets.
Significant judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
54 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies notices have been served validly and within the appropriate time.
iv Goodwill Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the income Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair statement.
Rental income is accounted for as described in accounting policy n. value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the effective date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions is reported in the balance sheet as an intangible asset and is impairment tested e Investment property under development annually.
The carrying amount of goodwill is assessed annually and written down to Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment its recoverable amount.
property is classified as investment property under development, whereas The profit or loss on disposal of assets is calculated by reference to the carrying properties purchased with the intention of selling them to the UNITE UK Student value at the date of disposal, including the attributable amount of goodwill which Accommodation Fund are classified as property under development see i remains unimpaired.
Investment property under development is stated at fair value.
External, independent valuers, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification, value the portfolio every six months.
The fair values are on the same basis as C Financial instruments those used for investment properties but including adjustments to remove the fair i Derivative financial instruments value of construction, which has yet to take place and making reasonable The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest assumptions regarding expected rentals and costs.
rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
Gains arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in the Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair revaluation reserve as are losses to the extent that they reverse amounts value, with movements recognised in the income statement except where cash previously credited directly to equity.
Revaluation losses in excess of amounts flow hedge accounting is applied see below.
previously credited to equity are recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group When construction or development is complete, the property is reclassified and would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking subsequently accounted for as investment property.
At the date of transfer, into account current interest rates and the current credit worthiness of the the difference between fair value and the previous carrying amount is recognised swap counterparties.
in the consolidated income statement and a transfer is made from revaluation In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative reserve to retained earnings for valuations and related deferred tax previously financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify recognised in relation to that property.
for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
All costs directly associated with the purchase and construction of a property, and all subsequent qualifying expenditure is capitalised.
ii Hedge accounting for interest rate swaps Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs Where an interest rate swap is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash commences when the activities to prepare the asset are in progress and flows of an existing or a highly probable forecast loan interest payment, the expenditures and borrowing costs are being incurred.
Capitalisation of borrowing effective part of any gain or loss on the swap instrument is recognised directly in costs continues until the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
equity in the hedging reserve.
The cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity If the resulting carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged impairment loss is recognised.
The capitalisation rate is arrived at by reference to transaction.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income the actual rate payable on borrowings for development purposes or, with regard statement immediately.
to that part of the development cost financed out of general borrowings, to the When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged average rate.
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer probable, f Property, plant and equipment the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the i Owned assets income statement immediately.
Other than land and buildings, property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
The cost of self d Investment property constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Investment properties are those held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
External, Land and buildings held in property, plant and equipment are stated at fair value.
independent valuers, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification, The valuation has been carried out by an external, independent valuer, having an value the portfolio every six months.
The fair values are based on the market appropriate recognised professional qualification.
The fair values are based on the values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in length transaction where the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently an arms length transaction where the parties had each acted knowledgeably, and without compulsion.
The valuations are prepared by considering the aggregate of the net annual rents receivable from the properties and where relevant, associated costs.
ii Leased assets Valuations reflect, where appropriate: the type of tenants actually in occupation or Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of responsible for meeting lease commitments or likely to be in occupation after ownership are classified as finance leases.
Property held under finance leases letting of vacant accommodation and the markets general perception of their and leased out under operating leases is classified as investment property and credit worthiness: the allocation of maintenance and insurance responsibilities carried at fair value see accounting policy d. between lessor and lessee: and the remaining economic life of the property.
It has been assumed that whenever rent reviews or lease renewals are pending with anticipated reversionary increases, all notices and where appropriate counter 55 1.
Significant accounting policies continued iii Depreciation j Cash and cash equivalents Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Cash estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold land is equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part Freehold buildings 50 years of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash Leasehold improvements Shorter of life of lease and economic life equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Fixtures and fittings 4 years Motor vehicles 4 years Plant & equipment 4-20 years k Share capital Assets held under finance leases which do not transfer title of the assets to the i Ordinary share capital Group at the end of the lease, are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs directly attributable to the useful lives shown above and the term of the lease.
The residual value, if not issue of new shares, other than on a business combination, are shown as a insignificant, is reassessed annually.
deduction, net of tax, in equity from the proceeds.
Share issue costs incurred directly in connection with a business combination are deducted from the proceeds of the issue.
g Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures ii Dividends The treatment of these investments in the Groups consolidated financial Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are declared.
statements is set out in the basis of preparation section above.
In the financial statements of the Company, investments in subsidiaries and joint l Interest bearing borrowings ventures are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recognised directly in equity.
Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption h Intangible assets value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an on an effective interest basis.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is m Employee benefits technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, i Defined contribution plans direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
ii Share based payment transactions Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less The Groups share option schemes allow employees to acquire shares of the accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of share Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically options that are expected to vest except where forfeiture is only due to share tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
When the options are exercised, amortised from the date they are available for use over the following periods: equity is increased by the amount of the proceeds received.
Development cost 4-5 years The Group funds the purchase of its own shares by the Employee share Computer software 4-5 years ownership trust to meet the obligations of the Long term incentive plan LTIP and executive bonus scheme.
These purchases are shown as Own shares i Property under development and inventories acquired in the retained earnings in note 17.
Properties under development are properties purchased with the intention of selling them to the UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund following completion.
n Revenue These properties and inventories are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable i Rental income value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the Inventories include land held for development, which are sites, purchased without lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total planning permission.
Once planning permission is obtained the assets transfer to rental income and spread over the period to the first break clause or over the term either property under development or investment property under development.
of the lease where no break clause exists.
Significant accounting policies continued ii Management and promote fees p Income tax Management and promote fees are recognised, in line with the property management Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
contracts, in the period to which they relate.
The Group earns promote fees relative to Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates criteria specified in the joint venture agreements.
to items recognised directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax iii Development income rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any In addition to development management fees, detailed above, income relating to the adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
sale of trading properties is recognised once contracts for sale have been Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for unconditionally exchanged.
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of iii Goods sold and services rendered goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
ventures to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement in proportion The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax provision in the consideration due, associated costs or the possible return of goods.
respect of property assets is calculated on the basis that assets will not be held indefinitely and therefore takes account of available indexation.
o Expenses A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future i Lease payments taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on benefit will be realised.
a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Where the property interest under an operating lease is classified as an investment property, the property interest is accounted for as if it were a finance lease and the fair value model is used for the asset recognised.
ii Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable on funds invested both calculated using the effective interest rate method and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement refer accounting policy c. 57 1.
