The Group holds or issues financial instruments for i Development finance At 31 December 2007, after taking account of two main purposes: interest rate swaps, 89% 2006: 72% of the The majority of the Groups development borrowing Groups medium and long-term investment To finance the development and subsequent at 31 December 2007 is held at floating rate borrowing was held at fixed rates.
This is fixed at retention of investment properties: reflecting the Groups view of the stability of the an average rate of 6.74% 2006: 6.69% for an To manage the interest rate risks arising from its current interest rate environment and the relatively average period of 6 years 2006: 14 years.
operations and from its sources of finance.
low cost of adverse interest rate fluctuations in the context of the total development cost.
The Group Liquidity risk In addition, various financial instruments such as continues to review the appropriateness of this trade debtors and trade creditors arise directly With respect to its development activities, the policy on a regular basis.
All financial directors have adopted a policy whereby the Group instruments are sterling denominated.
The Group ii Refinancing risk injects substantially the full amount of equity does not trade in financial instruments or required for each development before drawing debt The Groups principal exposure to interest rate derivatives.
In this way, the funding fluctuations during development relates to requirements of each scheme are substantially The Group finances its development and investment movements in longer term interest rates, which ring fenced and secured at the outset of works.
activities through a mixture of retained earnings, affect the quantum of debt the property income is borrowings and fresh issues of equity.
The Group capable of servicing at completion.
Significant Some of the Groups medium-term banking borrows from major banking institutions primarily at adverse movements undermine the Groups capital facilities are revolving, allowing the Group to apply fixed rates of interest, using derivatives where recycling strategy.
its cash surpluses in the temporary reduction of its appropriate to generate the desired effective debt obligations.
The Group manages this risk via a programme of interest rate basis.
The derivatives used for this pre-hedging, through the use of forward starting Market risk purpose are interest rate swaps.
At 31 December 2007 The Groups primary market risk is interest rate During the year the Group redeemed its 273.5m approximately 154.0m 2006: 51.7m of the exposure.
It monitors this exposure through a bonds.
The bonds have been replaced by a bridging Groups anticipated refinancing was hedged for an process of sensitivity analysis, estimating the effect facility while the Group completes a restructuring of average term of 4 years 2006: 3 years.
on operating cash flow over various periods of a its investment property portfolio.
iii Medium and long term finance range of possible changes in interest rates.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial The Group holds its medium and long-term bank At 31 December 2007, it is estimated that a instruments are interest rate risk and market price finance under floating rate arrangements.
The general increase of one percentage point in interest risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for majority of this debt is hedged through the use of rates would decrease the Groups profit before tax managing each of these risks and they are interest rate swap agreements, although not all by approximately 1.3m 2006: 1.7.
these arrangements qualify for hedge accounting ineffective interest rate swaps have been included Interest rate risk under IAS 39.
During 2007, the Groups policy has in this calculation.
been to hedge in excess of 70% of the Groups The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations The Groups policy is to accept a degree of interest exposure for terms of approximately 2-15 years.
on its borrowings and deposits is managed by rate risk, provided the effects of the various using interest rate swaps and in some cases, potential changes in rates remain within certain simple fixed rate borrowing.
The Groups policy is prescribed parameters.
Financial Instruments Credit risk Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
Effective interest rates Interest rate swaps with a fair value of 7.700m 2006: 0.601m and remaining lives of 1 to 15 years have been hedge accounted against variable rate debt.
The Groups overall average cost of debt as at 31 December 2007 is 7.0% 2006: 6.7%.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities do not differ from their book values other than as shown below: 2007 2007 2006 2006 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 000 000 000 000 Fixed rate bonds excluding arrangement fees -- 267,256 277,613 Fair values have been calculated by discounting future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
