Adjusted diluted NAV per share SDLT impact The basic NAV per share figure is recalculated to The impact on the value of the Groups properties take account of the existence of outstanding resulting from the abolition of Stamp Duty Land share options and adjusted to: Tax SDLT disadvantaged area relief in 2005.
This exemption was previously taken into account exclude the impact of deferred tax in arriving at the properties fair value.
exclude the mark to market of interest rate swaps Stabilising properties include the valuation gain not recognised on Newly constructed properties generally take properties held at cost.
up to two years to achieve a consistent high level of occupancy.
Adjusted earnings per share The diluted earnings per share excluding UCAS valuation gains, mark to market swap UCAS is the central organisation that processes adjustment and deferred tax.
applications for full-time undergraduate courses at UK universities and colleges www.
Balance scorecard approach Developed to provide a new form of strategic UNIAID management.
The balanced scorecard gives Uniaid Foundation is a charity that supports people a simple answer to the questions what students in coping with the financial hurdles to does the organisation need to do to succeed?
and how can we get all our people working in the same direction?.
UNITE Letting Arrangements HESA Direct Let The Higher Education Statistics Agency is Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements the central source for the collection and are made directly between the commercial dissemination of statistics about publicly operator and the student, save where the funded UK higher education.
property is subject to Nominations.
Lease Housing Act Properties which are leased to universities In 2004, the Government introduced the for a number of years.
Housing Act, which requires the private rented Nominations sector to meet certain basic standards and Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements gives more protection to tenants from are made with students, with the university unscrupulous landlords.
providing an occupancy guarantee in respect of a See www.
uk significant proportion of rooms for a period of at for more information.
Net rental growth The annual growth in income less costs from a property.
