The UNITE Group plc the Company is a company domiciled in the The accounting policy descriptions set out the areas where judgement needs United Kingdom.
exercising, the most significant of which are as follows: Valuation of investment property and investment property a Basis of preparation under development The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries The Group uses the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in jointly value of its investment properties.
The valuation is based upon assumptions controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs and the about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
The valuers also make reference to market Both the parent company financial statements and the group financial statements evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Properties under development and inventories Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
On publishing Properties under development and inventories are carried at the lower of the parent company financial statements here together with the group financial cost and net realisable value.
However the valuation of properties under statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of development is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements and the the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and same factors affecting investment properties as described above apply.
Net realisable value is assessed by the Group, having regard to suitable The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied external advice and knowledge of recent comparable transactions.
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Trade and other receivables Measurement convention The Group is required to judge when there is sufficient objective evidence The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the to require the impairment of individual trade and other receivables following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Investment property Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the Investment property under development estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the Interest rate swaps revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Land and buildings included in property, plant and equipment Accounting standards adopted b Basis of consolidation IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures, which adds further quantitative and i Subsidiaries qualitative disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
IFRS 8 Operating segments, introduces the management approach to segment reporting.
IFRS 8, Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2009 financial statements, requires the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable are segments performance and allocate resources to them.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the Accounting standards and interpretations issued date that control ceases.
but not adopted ii Joint ventures Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs removes the option to expense borrowing costs and requires that an entity capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as a part of the cost of established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements that asset.
Although revised IAS 23 will be mandatory for the Groups 2009 include joint ventures initially at cost subsequently increased or decreased by the financial statements it will not constitute a change in accounting policy for Groups share of total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures on an equity the Group.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions requires a share-based payment arrangement in which an entity receives goods or services as Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses consideration for its own equity instruments to be accounted for as an equityarising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated settled share-based payment transaction, regardless of how the equity financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures instruments are obtained.
IFRIC 11 will become mandatory for the Groups 2008 are eliminated to the extent of the Groups retained interest in the entity.
financial statements, with retrospective application required.
It is not expected to Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
where the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets or an impairment in value of fixed assets.
Significant judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
54 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
