NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General unless previously renewed, varied or revoked BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Meeting of the Company will be held at The Core, by the Company in general meeting, save that A D Reid 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 the Company may, before this authority SECRETARY a. m. on Thursday 15 May 2008 for the purpose expires, make an offer of agreement which Dated 5 March 2008 of considering and, if thought fit, passing the would or might require relevant securities to Registered office: following resolutions which, in the case of be allotted after it expires and the Directors The Core resolutions numbered 1 to 9 inclusive, shall be may allot relevant securities in pursuance of 40 St Thomas Street proposed as ordinary resolutions and, in the case such an offer or agreement as if this authority Bristol of resolution numbered 10, will be proposed as a had not expired and provided further that this BS1 6JX special resolution.
authority shall supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 80 of Notes the Act.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the 10.
THAT, in accordance with Section 95 of the 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and meeting is entitled to appoint one or more Act, the Directors be given power to allot for financial statements for the year ended 31 proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on cash equity securities as defined for the December 2007. his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member purpose of Section 89 of the Act pursuant to of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed 2.
To confirm and declare a final dividend on the the general authority conferred on them by with this notice for use at the meeting.
ordinary shares for the year ended 31 Resolution 9 above as if Section 89 1 of the December 2007 of 1.67p per ordinary share 2.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy Act did not apply to the allotment, but this payable to shareholders on the register at the together with the power of attorney or other power shall be limited: close of business on 18 April 2008. authority if any, under which it is signed, or a a to the allotment of equity securities in notarially certified copy of such power or 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report connection with an offer or issue to or in authority, must be completed in accordance for the year ended 31 December 2007. favour of ordinary shareholders on the with the instructions set out on the form and register on a date fixed by the Directors 4.
To re-appoint Mr J J Lister as a Director of the deposited at or posted to the office of the where the equity securities respectively Company.
registrars of the Company, Computershare attributable to the interests of all those Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, 5.
To re-appoint Mr G K Maddrell as a Director of shareholders are proportionate as nearly Bridgewater Road, Bristol BS13 3FB so as to the Company.
as practicable to the respective numbers be received not later than 9.30 a. m. on 13 of ordinary shares held by them on that 6.
To re-appoint Mr R Walker as a Director of the May 2008.
Completion and return of the form date, but the Directors may make such Company.
of proxy will not preclude shareholders from exclusions or other arrangements as they attending or voting at the meeting in person.
To re-appoint Mr M C Allan as a Director of the consider expedient in relation to fractional Company.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated entitlements, legal or practical problems Securities Regulations 2001, members will under the laws in any territory or the 8.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors in only be entitled to attend and vote at the requirements of any relevant regulatory accordance with Section 384 of the meeting if they are registered on the body or stock exchange: and Companies Act 1985 to hold office until the Companys register of members 48 hours conclusion of the next general meeting of the b to the allotment other than under a before the time appointed for the meeting, or Company at which accounts are laid and to above of equity securities having a any adjournment thereof.
authorise the Directors to determine their nominal value not exceeding in aggregate remuneration.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with 1,544,550. the Company are available at the registered and this authority shall expire at the conclusion office of the Company for inspection during Special Business of the next annual general meeting of the usual business hours on any weekday from Company after the passing of this resolution 9.
THAT the Directors be generally and the date of this notice until the date of the or fifteen months after the passing of this unconditionally authorised, in accordance with meeting and also on the day of the meeting resolution, whichever shall be the sooner, save Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol that the Company may, before this authority Act, to exercise all powers of the Company BS1 6JX from 9.15 a. m. until the conclusion expires, make an offer or agreement which to allot relevant securities as defined for the of the meeting.
would or might require equity securities to be purposes of that Section up to a maximum allotted after it expires and the Directors may nominal amount of 10,297,006, provided allot equity securities in pursuance of such that this authority shall expire at the offer or agreement as if this authority had not conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting expired and provided further that this authority of the Company after the passing of this shall supersede and revoke all previous Resolution or fifteen months after the passing authorities under Section 95 of the Act.
of the Resolution, whichever shall be sooner 87 Notice of Annual General Meeting
