Directors report Remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Private equity and venture capital a lexicon Definitions form of redeemable preference shares or the investment and exit.
If the strategy Private equity, as the term suggests, involves shareholder loans.
involves corporate acquisitions or mergers, investment of equity capital in private restructuring the business, achieving growth Examples of buyouts investments can be businesses.
More recently it has become as in turnover or operating profits, the PE found on pages 14 and 15. much associated with an investment style as investor would need to have the required it has with its more literal description.
Quoted Private equity QPE This involves capability to ensure these are achieved.
the purchase of influential stakes in smaller As important is the ability to assess and 3is private equity activities cover: strengthen the management team as quoted companies which have low liquidity in Venture capital This is investment in earlytheir shares, little analyst coverage and potential the life cycle proceeds this might involve stage or late-stage technology companies, to grow significantly but are constrained by having access to a pool of management Here, the investor the VC typically takes a their current shareholding composition.
talent in order to match a particular need minority equity stake ie less than 50% of the The concept is that through taking a private to a particular management skill-set.
equity shares in the business as part of a equity value adding approach to these Exit This phase generally involves a trade sale, syndicate of VCs.
Early-stage investments companies and working with management a listing on a stock exchange or a sale to typically fund research or development their prospects can be significantly improved.
another private equity firm a secondary.
expenditure and costs associated with Investment objective Exit prospects and strategy should generally building an organisation for a company which Like any other investment, the objective of be reviewed on an ongoing basis during the is pre revenue.
Late-stage investments tend the PE investor is to earn attractive returns investments life and the sale or flotation to fund the scaling up of a business once the on its investment commensurate with the itself requires resource and capability from model is proven for companies which are the PE investor, since both are lengthy and risk being taken.
The returns come either in either pre or just making a profit.
Both early the form of income interest, dividends or complex processes.
and late-stage investing usually involves a fees or capital gains.
The contrast with number of funding rounds.
Types of investment vehicle The predominant investment in quoted companies is that the vehicle in the industry is the independent, Examples of venture capital investments can PE investor will usually prefer to crystallise its private, fixed-life, closed-end fund, usually be found on pages 22 and 23. capital gain through a trade sale ie a sale to organised as a limited partnership.
These a corporate purchaser, a sale to a financial Growth capital or development capital funds typically have a fixed life of 10 years.
purchaser or a flotation on the public markets This involves the provision of capital to Investments generally consist of an initial of the underlying business.
This preference commitment of capital which is then drawn accelerate the growth of established tends to make private equity investment businesses and generally involves the private down as the investment manager finds medium to long term in nature, since time equity investor PE investor taking a investment opportunities.
Capital is returned is required to implement the value growth minority equity position.
It is a type of to the investor via earnings distributions and strategy for the business and there will also investment suited to a diverse range of sales of investments.
Some investment be a wish to optimise the timing of the exit.
vehicles are organised as captive or semigrowth opportunities, including acquisitions, increasing production capacity, market The investment lifecycle captive funds.
A captive fund invests only for or product development, turnaround The investment lifecycle for an investment the interest of its parent organisation which opportunities, shareholder succession and can be broken down into five distinct phases, may be, for example, a bank or investment change of ownership situations.
with each involving significant resource and bank, insurance company, university.
A semicapability on the part of the VC or PE investor: captive fund mixes capital from both outside Examples of growth capital investments can investors and the parent organisation.
Both be found on pages 18 and 19.
Origination The ability to access and create captive and semi-captive funds tend to be investment opportunities.
This is a critical Buyouts This involves the purchase of an evergreen in nature income from component of a PE investors business model.
existing independent business or a subsidiary investments and proceeds received on the realisation of investments are substantially or division of a corporate group from its Developing and validating the investment case In this phase the PE investor draws retained for further investment rather than current owners.
This category of investment includes management buyouts, management upon their knowledge, experience, commercial being returned to investors.
There are also a buy-ins, and institutional buyouts.
Here, the judgment and other capabilities to develop and limited number of private equity investment equity in the post-buyout business is usually validate their investment case.
This might companies, such as 3i, whose shares are listed on a stock exchange.
These tend to be shared between the management team and involve building a potential board and management team and working with them to evergreen in nature and offer investors a the PE investor, with the PE investor usually holding a majority stake.
develop the strategy for value growth and more liquid exposure to private equity.
exit: as well as conducting due diligence on all Infrastructure The finance for the buyout would generally significant assumptions and inputs to the 3i also invests in infrastructure assets.
comprise around 60% of senior and mezzanine investment case.
debt usually provided by banks and These relate to investment in public service mezzanine providers, with substantially all Structuring and making the investment activities covering the range from primary investment, the building of a public service of the balance of the purchase price coming This phase involves financial structuring, negotiation and project management skills operation eg a road, hospital or school, to from the PE investor and a relatively small on the part of the PE investor.
Relationships secondary investment, which involves the amount coming from the management team.
In order to reflect the mismatch between the with banks, mezzanine finance providers, operational scaling once the facilities are up equity finance provided respectively by the intermediaries and others are also important.
and running and finally tertiary investments in mature infrastructure operations.
PE investor and the management team Implementing the value creation plan and the equity stake taken by each in the This phase involves actually making it underlying business, a large part of the PE happen, creating value between making investors finance is generally provided in the 3i Group plc 107 Report and accounts 2007
