Carried interest an explanation Private equity firms ensure alignment between the interests of management teams and investors through a variety of mechanisms.
A key financial mechanism is carried interest or carry and this is explained below.
When is carried interest paid What other return does the fund Carried interest refers to the profits and how is it calculated?
generated in a successful private equity fund Carried interest is usually based on the The fund will pay a priority profit share often that are received by the carried interest performance of the fund as a whole, but in called the management fee to cover the holders, and which typically amount to 20% some funds is paid on an investment-bycosts of the fund manager.
This is typically of the net profit in the fund.
Usually investors receive 1% to 2% of the investors commitments to their initial capital back plus a hurdle to the fund annually.
Who is the carried interest holder?
ensure a minimum level of return before any This is often the senior management team of carried interest is paid.
Why does 3i have both carried the fund manager but varies between private interest receivable and carried Typically, this hurdle is based on the Internal equity firms.
Rate of Return IRR of the fund since its 3is carried interest receivable is due from inception for more information on IRRs Where does the term the third-party funds that 3i manages.
An IRR-based hurdle is the carried interest come from?
3i calls these external funds co-investment most appropriate mechanism in the private The investor who receives the carried interest funds since they invest alongside 3is balance equity industry due to the focus on cash-tois said to be carried by the other investors sheet.
A variety of funds are managed by 3i cash returns.
since they are willing to allocate up to 20% of but in recent years 3i has only raised buyout their profits to the carried interest holder.
Once the hurdle has been met, most funds to invest alongside its Buyouts business funds allocate cash flows above the hurdle line.
The most recent fund is 3i Eurofund V, How does carried interest ensure disproportionately for a short period, known investing primarily in mid-market European alignment of the parties in a private as the catch up phase, until the carried buyouts.
interest holder has received the right 3is carried interest payable is due to The main parties in a private equity proportion of the overall profits in the fund.
transaction are the management team of This is payable mainly in relation to 3is the underlying company in which the fund is Why are investors in a private equity Buyout, Growth Capital and Venture Capital investing, the investors in the fund, and those fund willing to forego as much as 20% investments.
Assets in a vintage are grouped who manage the fund.
of profit in carried interest?
together in pools typically covering two Generally investors value the alignment that Management teams of companies backed years of investment, which are specific to a carried interest provides.
with private equity are incentivised by the particular investment team.
The executives potential capital gain on their investment in Carried interest functions in a similar way to a in that team purchase the rights to the the company.
Investors in private equity performance fee.
It is directly linked to the carried interest and, if the pool is profitable, funds benefit from the growth in value of success of the investment fund and has the they will receive an allocation of investment these underlying companies.
benefit to the investors of being measured on profits.
3is internal carry schemes are the cash returned to them rather than the structured in the same way as external Managers of the fund holding the carried value of the fund.
funds, with similar terms and conditions.
interest benefit if the overall performance Approximately 86% of 3is portfolio assets, of the fund is successful.
In return for paying carried interest, fund measured by value at 31 March 2007, are investors demand active management within carried interest schemes.
Specifically, the fund manager will: Both carried interest receivable and payable are accrued in line with underlying realised invest fund investors capital in high quality and unrealised profits in the fund but cash companies: payments are not made until the cash is develop and implement a value creation returned to investors, as noted above.
strategy for each company in the portfolio: participate in the strategic and operational policy-making through board representation: earn an appropriate yield on the investment: and provide a profitable exit through a trade sale, IPO or refinancing.
3i Group plc 110 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders As the level of carried interest receivable is Worked example related to the returns in 3is co-investment Company A Carried interest funds, while the level of carried interest Company B Management fee payable is related to the returns from 3is Company C Cash returned to investors own investments, carried interest receivable Company D and payable are only indirectly related in 3is accounts.
Company E However in 3is Buyout business line, there 200m 200m is a correlation between carried interest receivable and payable because investments 18m in the same business are held both by the 10m co-investment fund and held on 3is own balance sheet.
How does 3i account for 100m carried interest?
172m 3i accounts for carried interest on an accruals basis.
As realisations are made and valuations are adjusted, 3i reviews the impact on each carry scheme in place and amends its carried interest accruals accordingly.
However it should be noted that some private equity firms account for carried Assume a Five companies Assume 200 million How might the interest as it is paid and received the 100 million in portfolio cash received by 200 million private equity perform investors by the end be split?
so-called cash basis and others account fund invests in differently of the fund ie when Assume carried interest of five companies companies are sold 20% of 90 million profits for carried interest at the time of making a in the fund 100 million new investment by employing option 10 million fees Assume average valuation techniques.
management fee of 1 million pa during 3is accounting policy means that movements the life of the fund in gross portfolio return are fully reflected in the calculation of carried interest payable and receivable, ultimately reducing year-on-year volatility to 3is total return.
3i Group plc 111 Report and accounts 2007
