Significant accounting policies 3i Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2007 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also presented.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the Group except where separately disclosed.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 9 May 2007.
A Statement of compliance These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted for use in the European Union IFRS.
These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Act 1985.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: Effective for period beginning on or after IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application and have decided not to early adopt.
Change in accounting policies During the year, the Group has adopted IFRIC Interpretation 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions, which has been applied retrospectively in accordance with the requirements of IAS 8, subject to the transitional provisions of IFRS 2.
The impact of this change is to increase the Companys interest in Group entities by 17 million, with a corresponding increase in equity, as at 31 March 2006.
The change has no impact on the results of the Group.
B Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest million pounds m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The most significant techniques for estimation are described in the accounting policies below and in the valuation methodology page 98.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The income statement of the Company has been omitted from these financial statements in accordance with section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across all Group entities for the purposes of producing these consolidated financial statements.
C Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, which requires investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period of the change.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business.
iii Joint ventures Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Interests in joint ventures through which the Group carries on its business are classified as jointly controlled entities and accounted for using the equity method.
Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, which requires venturers interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period of the change.
The Group has no interests in joint ventures through which it carries on its business.
3i Group plc 78 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders D Exchange differences i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the Translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of the non-sterling operation.
In respect of non-sterling operations, cumulative translation differences on the consolidation of non-sterling operations are being accumulated from the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004, and not from the original acquisition date.
E Investment portfolio i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of the investments.
The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of dividends and changes in fair value of equity investments.
Therefore, all quoted investments and unquoted equity investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Other investments including loan investments and fixed income shares are classified as loans and receivables and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying 3i Group plcs valuation policies.
Acquisition costs are attributed to equity investments and recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Income Gross portfolio return is equivalent to revenue for the purposes of IAS 1.
It represents the overall increase in net assets from the investment portfolio net of deal-related costs but excluding exchange movements.
Investment income is analysed into the following components: a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration received less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its carrying value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal.
b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the carrying value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of the movement.
c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: Income from loans and receivables is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value.
Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the income statement when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established except to the extent that dividends, paid out of pre-acquisition reserves, adjust the fair value of the equity investment.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Fees that are earned on a financing arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss and are recognised when that investment is made.
Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are recognised as that service is provided.
F Fees receivable from external funds i Fund management fees The Group manages private equity funds, which primarily co-invest alongside the Group.
Fees earned from the ongoing management of these funds are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
ii Advisory fees The Group acts as investment advisor to private equity funds.
Fees earned from the provision of investment advisory services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant investment advisory agreement.
iii Performance fees The Group earns a performance fee from funds to which it provides investment advisory services where specified performance targets are achieved.
Performance fees are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
iv Support services fees The Group provides support services to external funds, including accounting, treasury management, corporate secretariat and investor relations.
Fees earned from the provision of these support services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant support services agreement.
3i Group plc 79 Report and accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies continued G Carried interest i Carried interest receivable The Group earns a share of profits carried interest receivable from funds which it manages on behalf of third parties.
These profits are earned once the funds meet certain performance conditions.
Carried interest receivable is only accrued on those managed funds in which the funds performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, would be achieved if the remaining assets in the fund were realised at fair value.
Fair value is determined using the Groups valuation methodology and is measured at the balance sheet date.
An accrual is made equal to the Groups share of profits in excess of the performance conditions, taking into account the cash already returned to fund investors and the fair value of assets remaining in the fund.
ii Carried interest payable The Group offers investment executives the opportunity to participate in the returns from successful investments.
Carried interest payable is the term used for amounts payable to executives on investment-related transactions.
A variety of asset pooling arrangements are in place so that executives may have an interest in one or more carried interest scheme.
Carried interest payable is only accrued on those schemes in which the schemes performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, would be achieved if the remaining assets in the scheme were realised at fair value.
An accrual is made equal to the executives share of profits in excess of the performance conditions in place in the carried interest scheme.
H Property, plant and equipment i Land and buildings Land and buildings are carried in the balance sheet at fair value less depreciation and impairment.
Fair value is determined at each balance sheet date from valuations undertaken by professional valuers using market-based evidence.
Any revaluation surplus is credited directly to the Capital reserve in equity except to the extent that it reverses a previous valuation deficit on the same asset charged in the income statement in which case the surplus is recognised in the income statement to the extent of the previous deficit.
Any revaluation deficit that offsets a previously recognised surplus in the same asset is directly offset against the surplus in the Capital reserve.
Any excess valuation deficit over and above that previously recognised in surplus is charged in the income statement.
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged in the income statement over its estimated useful life, generally over 50 years.
ii Vehicles and office equipment Vehicles and office equipment are depreciated by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows: office equipment five years: computer equipment three years: computer software three years: motor vehicles four years.
iii Assets held under finance leases Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful life on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the lease term.
Assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged in the income statement over the period of the agreement and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
I Treasury assets and liabilities Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used in order to manage cash flows and overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
fide-recognition occurs when rights to cash flows from a financial asset expire, or when a liability is extinguished.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts.
ii Deposits Deposits in the balance sheet comprise longer term deposits with an original maturity of greater than three months.
iii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
iv Convertible Bonds Where Convertible Bonds have an issuer cash settlement option, the Convertible Bonds are regarded as compound instruments consisting of a liability and a derivative instrument see policy below for derivatives.
On issue of the Convertible Bonds, the fair value of the derivative component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent derivative.
Subsequent to initial recognition the conversion option is measured as a derivative financial instrument.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to the liability component and this amount is carried as a long-term liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
v Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations of the investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of foreign currency contracts, currency swaps and interest-rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured to the fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of currency swaps and interest-rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are taken to the income statement.
vi Subordinated liabilities The Group has some limited recourse funding, which individually finances investment assets, at various fixed rates of interest and whose maturity is dependent upon the disposal of the associated assets.
This funding is subordinated to other creditors of the individual Group entity to which the funds have been advanced and becomes non-repayable as the assets fail.
These liabilities are held in the balance sheet at the amount expected to be repayable based on the underlying assets.
Changes in the amounts repayable as a result of changes in the underlying assets are treated as other income in the income statement.
Interest payable on subordinated liabilities is charged as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
3i Group plc 80 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders J Employee benefits i Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit method with actuarial valuations being carried out each balance sheet date.
Current service costs are recognised in the income statement.
Past service costs are recognised to the extent that they are vested in the income statement.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full as they arise as part of the statement of recognised income and expense.
A retirement benefit deficit is recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that the present value of the defined benefit obligations exceeds the fair value of plan assets.
A retirement benefit surplus is recognised in the balance sheet where the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligations limited to the extent that the Group can benefit from that surplus.
ii Share-based payments In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 have been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002, that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The Group enters into arrangements that are equity-settled share-based payments with certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is then recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an appropriate model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of 3i Group plc.
The charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the actual number of forfeitures, cancellations and leavers during the period.
The movement in cumulative changes since the previous balance sheet is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
K Other assets Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change in the level of impairment is recognised directly in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent balance sheet dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value had no impairment been recognised.
L Other liabilities Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the balance sheet date.
M Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds or fair value received with the excess of the amount received over nominal value being credited to the share premium account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from equity.
N Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
The provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value if the effect is material.
Changes in provisions are recognised in the income statement for the period.
O Income taxes Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Where there are taxable differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax liabilities are recognised except where the Group is able to control reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
However, where there are deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that both the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised, and that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill and other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
3i Group plc 81 Report and accounts 2007
