Returns and IRRs an explanation Our aim is to achieve market-beating returns by generating cash-to-cash vintage year IRRs of 20% for Buyouts and Growth Capital and 25% for Venture Capital.
Why does 3i track the performance How does 3is total return The Internal Rate of Return IRR is the of vintage years?
equate to the IRR measures?
interim return earned by 3i investing in an Looking at the performance of a vintage Table 3 on page 34 shows an analysis asset from the date of initial investment up enables us to assess the returns we are of 3is total return.
until a particular point in time.
It is calculated making on pools of assets invested during as the annualised effective compound rate of a vintage year.
It gives a measure of the Total return is calculated as the return, using monthly cash flows, generated performance of each years investment gross portfolio return plus other from the asset.
For assets that have yet to be activity in isolation.
fee income, less costs and net interest sold, and therefore have not generated a final It also allows us to assess the return cash inflow from sale proceeds, the asset payable.
Total return can be expressed generated from assets over the length of value at the date of calculation of the IRR is as a quantum eg 1,075 million for time we hold them, rather than just looking used as the terminal cash flow.
An IRR can the year to 31 March 2007 or as a at the performance between the beginning apply to a single asset or a pool of assets and end of a financial year, which is shown in percentage of opening shareholders eg all new investments made in financial our yearly total return statement.
The annual funds eg 26.8% for the year to year 2004 can be pooled to calculate an IRR total return analysis has limitations as a 31 March 2007. for vintage year 2004. measure of longer-term performance as it is An IRR calculated using the current value of only a representation of how the assets have Gross portfolio return is made up the asset as the terminal cash flow is called performed in one financial year and is heavily of the income and value movement a Fund IRR.
A cash-to-cash IRR does not influenced by the valuation of the asset at both realised and unrealised include any terminal value for unsold assets the beginning and end of the year.
It does not generated from our portfolio.
and is a pure, more simple measure of cash show the evolution of how a vintage year is invested compared to cash returned as it performing over time.
Costs include expenses and carried does not include any judgmental asset To achieve this longer-term measure of interest payable.
valuation for the unsold assets.
performance over time, the IRR is the In the business line IRR tables included in the standard measure used across the private The elements that make up Business review, total investment represents equity industry.
the gross portfolio return are the all first and further investment in a vintage What IRR measures do 3i use to assess same constituents used in an and investment in externally managed funds, the performance of a vintage?
while return flow consists of capital proceeds 3i has published target cash-to-cash IRRs for and revenue.
Value remaining represents the each business line.
These targets are 20% for Gross portfolio return stated as value still held within the vintages portfolio Buyouts and Growth Capital and 25% for a percentage of opening portfolio based on our latest valuation.
value will equate to an IRR measure What is a vintage and a vintage year?
A cash-to-cash IRR cannot be meaningfully over time.
So, if 3i achieves 20% A vintage is a collection of assets in which used to measure the performance of a gross portfolio returns each year, 3i makes its first investment during a defined vintage until the majority of assets in that the long-term IRR will also move period of time.
The most common time vintage are realised.
period measured in the private equity industry the progress of each vintage and the is a year.
A vintage year at 3i includes all new evolution of the IRR using a combination What is total shareholder return?
investments made within our financial year, of the Fund IRRs and the extent to which Total shareholder return is the change ie vintage year 2007 covers new investments a vintage is realised, to assess the interim in share price over a period, plus made from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007. performance.
Case A, depicted in chart 1, is an example to show the interim cash-todividends re-invested.
cash IRR of an asset and clearly indicates why, during the holding period of an asset, the Fund IRR gives a more appropriate measure of performance.
3i Group plc 108 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Chart 1: IRR evolution Volatility, the portfolio effect and the holding period 3i equity value uplift The published target IRRs are for each 3i equity cost business line in aggregate.
It does not mean 3i shareholder loan that the IRR for each asset in those business lines will achieve the target IRRs individually.
50 There will always be a range of IRRs achieved on each of the individual assets in each 35 30 vintage year.
However, when assets are pooled together, the portfolio effect will reduce this overall volatility in each vintage 25 25 25 25 year.
The range of volatility we expect in any one given vintage year is -10% for 75 75 75 75 Buyouts, -7% for Growth Capital and -15% for Venture Capital.
Across the cycle, we expect the volatility to average out at -5% for Buyouts, -3% for Growth Capital and -7% for Venture Capital.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 A 3i vintage year is made up of many assets.
All will have their own individual cash flows Case A and different timings of when value uplift Investment 100 occurs and holding periods.
We believe that Yield 6.5 6.5 6.5 after three years the maturity of a vintage will have developed enough for the Fund Value at year end 130 135 IRR to give a good indication of the final Sale proceeds 150 outcome.
By seven years most vintage Fund IRR 0% 36% 22% 20% years will be largely realised.
Cash-to-cash IRR 100% 94% 71% 20% Tracking our progress To monitor a vintage year we use a combination of Fund IRRs and money multiples.
The Fund IRR to give a measure of performance and the money multiple to show how much cash has been returned compared to cost eg Case A 1.7x so that we can assess the extent to which that performance is locked-in.
We have published the Fund IRRs for each business line within the Business review Buyouts on page 12, Growth Capital on page 16 and Venture Capital on page 20 for the last five vintages 2003 to 2007.
3i Group plc 109 Report and accounts 2007
