Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRS adopted by the EU to present fairly the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to giving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
