Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-fifth Annual General Meeting of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC will be held at the Marcliffe at Pitfodels Hotel, North Deeside Road, Aberdeen, AB15 9YA at 12.00 noon on 17 January 2008 for the following purposes: For ease of reference, explanatory notes are attached to each resolution.
The formal resolutions are shown in bold text.
1 To receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2007 together with the Auditors Report thereon.
Each financial year, the Directors are required to present to the meeting the audited accounts and the directors and auditors reports for the financial year.
2 To declare a final dividend of 2.9 pence per ordinary share of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary share.
The Board recommend that a final dividend of 2.9 pence per share is paid.
If approved by the shareholders, this dividend will be paid on 23 January 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at 5.00 pm on 14 December 2007.
3 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
The Companys auditors must offer themselves for reappointment at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
On the advice of the Audit Committee, the Board propose that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
4 To re-elect as a Director Ms A M Frew who retires by rotation.
5 To re-elect as a Director Mr R C Cornick who retires by rotation.
6 To re-elect as a Director Mr W J Rattray who retires by rotation.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that, one third of the directors must retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and no director may serve beyond three years without offering themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
In accordance with this provision, Ms Frew and Messrs Cornick and Rattray offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of each of these directors are contained on page 23.
The Chairman confirms that following the completion of the annual performance evaluation and appraisal exercise, the performance of the three directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and that these directors demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Their re-election is therefore recommended.
7 To re-elect Mr D H Waters as a Director who retires in accordance with Article 95 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that a Director who reaches the age of 70 must submit himself for re-election at each subsequent annual general meeting.
Mr Waters will be aged 70 at the time of the Annual General Meeting and therefore offers himself for re-election.
A biography of Mr Waters is contained on page 23.
Please note that it is proposed that this requirement be deleted from the Companys Articles and therefore this provision will not apply in future years as it is potentially in breach of age discrimination legislation.
Please see the Appendix to the enclosed letter from the Chairman for further information in this regard.
The Chairman confirms that following the completion of the annual performance evaluation and appraisal exercise, the performance of Mr Waters continues to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment to his role.
Mr Waters re-election is therefore recommended.
8 To approve the Remuneration Report.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Directors to prepare an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors and the Companys remuneration policy and to seek shareholder approval to its contents.
The remuneration report is contained on pages 28 to 35.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 91 Notice of Meeting continued To consider the following resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 9 That pursuant to section 121 e of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and Article 9.1.
3 of the Articles of Association of the Company, that 39,000,000 5.25% Redeemable Preference Shares of 1 each be and they are hereby cancelled.
The Board is proposing the cancellation of these unissued and redundant shares.
This class of shares is no longer required as these shares related to conversion rights under a previously issued loan note which has now been repaid.
10 That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers conferred pursuant to Article 12.2.
1 of the Companys Articles of Association up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 25,850,354 section 80 amount representing the authorised unissued present share capital provided that this authority shall expire unless previously renewed varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 the prescribed period.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting to allot the authorised but unissued share capital up to a maximum nominal amount of 25,850,354, which represents the authorised unissued present share capital at 10 December 2007.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention to issue further ordinary shares in the Company.
As at 10 December 2007, the Company did not hold any treasury shares in the Company.
To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 11 That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers conferred pursuant to Article 12.2.
2 of the Companys Articles of Association and pursuant to Section 94 2 to Section 94 3A of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 3,144,862 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the prescribed period the section 89 amount.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting to issue equity securities of the Company for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis as provided by the Companies Act 1985.
Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend or other similar issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to issues of ordinary shares and or sales of treasury shares representing an aggregate nominal value of 3,144,862, which in turn represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 10 December 2007.
12 That the Company is, pursuant to Section 166 of the Act, hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares provided that:- 1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 62,897,247 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 2 the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10 pence per ordinary share: 3 the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of not more than i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which any such purchase is made and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange: 4 the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract to purchase will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make the purchase of the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract and: 5 the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009.
This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting and gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares, as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
The authority limits the number of ordinary shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 62,897,247 shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital at 10 December 2007 and sets the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid.
This authority would only be exercised if the Directors believed that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
At present, the Directors have no current intention of utilising this authority.
If this authority was exercised, the ordinary shares repurchased would be cancelled or held in treasury.
There are 79,926 convertible preference 92 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 share units which consist of a preference share and a warrant in Aberdeen Warrants Jersey Limited which if exercised would eventually result in a total of 81,524,520 ordinary shares in Aberdeen in issue.
There are also 6,272,100 ordinary shares under option and 2,656 convertible bonds 2010 which if exercised or converted could result in a further 24,727,360 ordinary shares in Aberdeen in issue.
There would therefore be a further 112,523,980 ordinary shares in issue in Aberdeen, if all rights to subscribe were exercised.
This figure represents 17.9% of the current issued share capital and would represent 19.9% of the issued share capital if the full authority sought at the Annual General Meeting is utilised.
13 That the regulations produced to the Meeting and signed, for the purpose of identification by the Chairman of the Meeting, be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company.
This resolution will approve the adoption of new Articles of Association which reflect certain changes implemented by the Companies Act 2006.
Further details of these changes and the other principal changes to the existing Articles of Association are set out in the Appendix to the Chairmans letter.
By order of the Board Scott E Massie Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 10 December 2007 Notes: 1 A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, vote and speak instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Member of the Company but must attend the Meeting to represent you.
A Form of Proxy, in order to be valid, must be delivered to SEA 10850, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6ZR or submitted at www.
co. uk not later than 12.00 noon on 15 January 2008.
2 Copies of all contracts of service and letters of appointment of Directors of the Company are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
3 Only those Members entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 6.00pm on 15 January 2008 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend, vote and speak at the meeting.
4 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 17 January 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual."
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by 12 noon on 15 January 2008.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93 Notice of Meeting continued CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
5 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the Chairmans letter or the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than as expressly stated.
6 As at 10 December 2007, the Companys issued share capital comprised 628,972,477 of 10p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are also 79, 926 convertible preference share units in existence which each consist of one preference share in Aberdeen which in certain limited circumstances has voting rights and one warrant to subscribe for preference shares in Aberdeen Warrants Jersey Limited Jerseyco.
Upon the exercise of a warrant, preference shares in Jerseyco will be issued which are then in accordance with the terms of the Jerseyco warrants immediately exchangeable for ordinary shares in Aberdeen.
The total number of ordinary shares in Aberdeen which could result after the exercise of warrants and subsequent share exchange are 81,524, 520 ordinary shares with voting rights.
There are also 6,272,100 ordinary shares under option and 2,656 convertible bonds 2010 which if exercised or converted would result in a further 24,727,360 of ordinary shares in aggregate with voting rights.
The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 10 December is 628,972,477 ordinary shares.
94 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
