54 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial There are a number of standards, amendments statements to standards and interpretations that were issued by 31 December 2007 but have yet to 1.
General information and basis be endorsed by the EU.
Of these, only the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial of preparation statements: a revised presentation is expected Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated to have any impact on the Groups financial in England and Wales.
Its registered office is statements.
This amendment introduces a at Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 number of changes to the primary financial 3AZ and its shares are listed on the London statements, but does not change the Stock Exchange.
recognition, measurement or disclosure of transactions or events that are required by The financial statements comprise the other IFRS.
results and balances of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the The following IFRS have been adopted and Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 applied by the Group for the first time in and comparative figures for the year ended 31 these financial statements: December 2006.
The financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries are consolidated in IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosure : and the Group financial statements.
The Company controls 100% of the voting share capital of all Amendment to IAS 1 Capital disclosures its subsidiaries.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the The accounting policies set out below Company as a separate entity and not about have, unless otherwise stated, been applied its Group.
In accordance with International consistently to all periods presented in these Accounting Standard IAS 24, transactions Group financial statements.
or balances between Group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation are not The financial statements are prepared on the reported as related party transactions.
historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as at fair value The consolidated financial statements have through profit or loss.
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Group.
Control exists when the Group has the European Union EU.
The Company the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial and operating policies of an entity financial statements in accordance with UK so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice In assessing control, potential voting rights GAAP.
that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial The Group has applied all adopted IFRS and statements of subsidiaries are included in the interpretations endorsed by the EU at 31 consolidated financial statements from the December 2007, including all amendments to date that control commences until the date extant standards that are not effective until that control ceases.
later accounting periods, except for those listed below: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires IFRS 8 Operating Segments : and management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share policies and reported amounts of assets and Transactions liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on IFRS 8 becomes effective for the period historical experience and various other factors commencing 1 January 2009, whilst IFRIC 11 will that are believed to be reasonable under the become effective for the period commencing circumstances, the results of which form the 1 January 2008.
The application of either basis of making the judgements about carrying the standard or the interpretation would not values of assets and liabilities that are not have had a material impact on these financial readily apparent from other sources.
