ADMIRAL GROUP plc 55 deviate from historic trends.
This is most The estimates and underlying assumptions likely to arise from a change in the regulatory are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions or judicial regime that leads to an increase to accounting estimates are recognised in the in awards or legal costs for bodily injury year in which the estimate is reviewed if this claims that is significantly above or below the revision affects only that year, or in the year historical trend.
of the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The claims provisions are subject to independent review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates 3.
Significant accounting Judgements: policies In applying the Groups accounting policies as a Revenue recognition described in note 3, management has primarily applied judgement in the classification of the Premiums, ancillary income and profit Groups contracts with reinsurers as quota commission: share reinsurance contracts.
A contract is required to transfer significant insurance risk Premiums relating to insurance contracts are in order to be classified as such.
Management recognised as revenue proportionally over the reviews all terms and conditions of the period of cover.
contract, and if necessary obtains the opinion of an independent expert at the negotiation Income earned on the sale of ancillary stage in order to be able to make these products and income from policies paid judgements.
by instalments is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Estimation techniques used in calculation Groups obligations to provide services.
Where the Group has no remaining of claims provisions: contractual obligations, the income is Estimation techniques are used in the recognised immediately.
An allowance is calculation of the provisions for claims made for expected cancellations where the outstanding, which represents a projection of customer may be entitled to a refund of the ultimate cost of settling claims that have ancillary amounts charged.
occurred prior to the balance sheet date and remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
Under some of the co-insurance and reinsurance contracts under which motor The key area where these techniques are used premiums are shared or ceded, profit relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
commission may be earned on a particular A secondary area relates to the emergence year of account, which is usually subject to of claims that occurred prior to the balance performance criteria such as loss ratios and sheet date, but had not been reported at that expense ratios.
The commission is dependent date.
on the ultimate outcome of any year, with income being recognised based on loss and The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported expense ratios used in the preparation of the claims are based on the setting of claim financial statements.
provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but the simplest of claims.
Income is allocated to profit commission in the income statement when the right to The sum of these provisions are compared consideration is achieved, and is capable of with projected ultimate costs using a variety reliable measurement.
of different projection techniques including incurred and paid chain ladder and an average Revenue from Gladiator Commercial and cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial assessment of their likely accuracy.
com: include allowance for unreported claims.
Commission from these activities is credited to income on the sale of the underlying The most significant sensitivity in the use of insurance policy.
the projection techniques arises from any future step change in claims costs, which would cause future claim cost inflation to Financial statements 43 - 94
