Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Financial assets and liabilities 000 000 Investments held at fair value 335,608 257,634 Receivables amounts owed by policyholders 146,240 138,304 Total financial assets per consolidated balance sheet 481,848 395,938 Trade and other receivables 22,633 16,931 Cash and cash equivalents 155,773 191,242 Financial liabilities: 660,254 604,111 Trade and other payables 239,593 215,137 All receivables from policyholders are due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
All investments held at fair value are invested in AAA-rated money market liquidity funds.
These funds spread across three very large providers target a 7day LIBID return with capital security and low volatility and continue to achieve these goals.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial assets and liabilities The Groups activities expose it primarily to the significant financial risks of credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
The Board of Directors has delegated the task of supervising risk management and internal control to the Risk Management Committee RMC.
There is also an Investment Committee that makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups investment strategy.
There are several key elements to the risk management environment throughout the Group.
These are detailed in full in the corporate governance statement.
Specific considerations for the risks arising from financial assets and liabilities are detailed below.
Interest rate risk The Group considers interest rate risk to be the risk that unfavourable movements in interest rates could adversely impact on the capital values of financial assets and liabilities.
This relates primarily to investments held at fair value.
The Group has a policy of investing in AAA-rated money market liquidity funds, which invest in a mixture of very short dated fixed and variable rate securities, such as certificates of deposits, floating rate notes and other commercial paper.
The funds are not permitted to have an average maturity greater than 60 days and hence are not subject to large movements in yield and value resulting from changes in market interest rates as longer duration fixed income portfolios experience.
Returns are likely to closely track the 7 day LIBID benchmark and hence while the Groups investment return will vary according to market interest rates, the capital value of the investment funds will not be impacted by rate movements.
The interest rate risk arising is therefore considered to be minimal.
Although the Group had no financial liabilities at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006, it currently holds a facility of 30m which allows it to draw down interest bearing borrowings on ADMIRAL GROUP plc 73 demand.
Any such borrowings would be subject to variable interest rate changes, at LIBOR plus a margin.
However the Group has not held any drawn down amounts on this facility since 2005. Credit risk The Group defines credit risk as the risk of loss if another party fails to perform its obligations or fails to perform them in a timely fashion.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers expose the Group to credit risk.
To mitigate this risk, the Group only conducts business with companies of specified financial strength ratings.
In addition, management also contract with certain reinsurers on a funds withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit risk.
The other principal form of credit risk is in respect of amounts due from policyholders due to the potential for default on credit card payments.
The impact of this is mitigated by the large customer base and low average level of balance recoverable.
There is also mitigation by the operation of numerous high and low level controls in this area, including payment on policy acceptance as opposed to inception and automated cancellation procedures for policies in default.
The fair value of receivables from policyholders represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not use credit derivatives or similar instruments to mitigate exposure.
The amount of bad debt expense relating to policyholder debt charged to the income statement in 2006 and 2007 is insignificant.
There are no specific concentrations of credit risk with respect to investment counterparties due to the structure of the liquidity funds which invest in a wide range of very short duration, high quality securities.
There were no significant financial assets that were past due at the close of either 2007 or 2006.
Foreign exchange risks Foreign exchange risks arise from unfavourable movements in foreign exchange rates that could adversely impact the valuation of overseas assets.
The Group may be exposed to foreign exchange risk through its expanding operations in Europe.
However, given the relative size of the European operations, the risks are relatively small.
Assets held to fund insurance liabilities are held in the currency of the liabilities.
A sensitivity analysis based on fluctuations in foreign exchange risk has not been presented on materiality grounds.
Financial statements 43 - 94 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficient, available, financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
The Group has traditionally been strongly cash generative due to the large proportion of profit arising from non-underwriting activity.
Further, as noted above, insurance funds are invested in money market liquidity funds with same day liquidity features, meaning that the vast majority of the Group cash and investments are immediately available.
The current uncertainty in credit markets is not likely to impact this.
Liquidity risk is therefore considered to be insignificant.
Fair value The carrying value of all of the Groups financial assets equate to fair value.
For money market funds, cash at bank and deposits, the fair value approximates to the book value due to their short maturity.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities within the Group are able to continue as going concerns and also to ensure that regulated entities meet regulatory requirements Excess capital above these levels within subsidiaries is paid up to the Group holding Company in the form of dividends on a regular basis.
At Group level, capital is managed in conjunction with dividend policy.
As noted in the financial review, the policy is to make distributions after taking into account capital that is required to be held for regulatory purposes, for expansion activities and also holding a general capital buffer 25m 2006: 25m.
This policy gives the Directors flexibility in managing the capital requirements of the Group.
The Groups capital is all in equity form, with no debt.
External capital requirements The Groups business is subject to regulatory and solvency requirements in two main jurisdictions: Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited is the only subsidiary incorporated outside the UK.
It is an insurance Company registered in Gibraltar and is regulated by the Commissioner of Insurance of the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission FSC.
All other subsidiaries as detailed in Note 29 are incorporated in the UK and most are subject to the regulatory regime of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Both the FSA and the FSC impose specific solvency requirements for capital resources on regulated subsidiary companies.
All companies have comfortably exceeded agreed solvency targets at all times during the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2007.
