ADMIRAL GROUP plc 55 deviate from historic trends.
This is most The estimates and underlying assumptions likely to arise from a change in the regulatory are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions or judicial regime that leads to an increase to accounting estimates are recognised in the in awards or legal costs for bodily injury year in which the estimate is reviewed if this claims that is significantly above or below the revision affects only that year, or in the year historical trend.
of the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The claims provisions are subject to independent review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates 3.
Significant accounting Judgements: policies In applying the Groups accounting policies as a Revenue recognition described in note 3, management has primarily applied judgement in the classification of the Premiums, ancillary income and profit Groups contracts with reinsurers as quota commission: share reinsurance contracts.
A contract is required to transfer significant insurance risk Premiums relating to insurance contracts are in order to be classified as such.
Management recognised as revenue proportionally over the reviews all terms and conditions of the period of cover.
contract, and if necessary obtains the opinion of an independent expert at the negotiation Income earned on the sale of ancillary stage in order to be able to make these products and income from policies paid judgements.
by instalments is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Estimation techniques used in calculation Groups obligations to provide services.
Where the Group has no remaining of claims provisions: contractual obligations, the income is Estimation techniques are used in the recognised immediately.
An allowance is calculation of the provisions for claims made for expected cancellations where the outstanding, which represents a projection of customer may be entitled to a refund of the ultimate cost of settling claims that have ancillary amounts charged.
occurred prior to the balance sheet date and remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
Under some of the co-insurance and reinsurance contracts under which motor The key area where these techniques are used premiums are shared or ceded, profit relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
commission may be earned on a particular A secondary area relates to the emergence year of account, which is usually subject to of claims that occurred prior to the balance performance criteria such as loss ratios and sheet date, but had not been reported at that expense ratios.
The commission is dependent date.
on the ultimate outcome of any year, with income being recognised based on loss and The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported expense ratios used in the preparation of the claims are based on the setting of claim financial statements.
provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but the simplest of claims.
Income is allocated to profit commission in the income statement when the right to The sum of these provisions are compared consideration is achieved, and is capable of with projected ultimate costs using a variety reliable measurement.
of different projection techniques including incurred and paid chain ladder and an average Revenue from Gladiator Commercial and cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial assessment of their likely accuracy.
com: include allowance for unreported claims.
Commission from these activities is credited to income on the sale of the underlying The most significant sensitivity in the use of insurance policy.
the projection techniques arises from any future step change in claims costs, which would cause future claim cost inflation to Financial statements 43 - 94 56 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investment income: items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part Investment income from financial assets of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation comprises interest income and net gains both differences on non-monetary items are realised and unrealised on financial assets included in the fair value reserve in equity.
classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Translation of financial statements of b Segment reporting foreign branches The Groups primary format for segment reporting is business segments.
There is no The financial statements of foreign branches secondary segment.
A business segment is whose functional currency is not pounds defined as a group of assets and operations sterling are translated into the Group engaged in providing products and services presentation currency sterling as follows: that are subject to risks and returns that are different from other business segments.
i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the For the Group, the risks and returns of its closing rate at the date of that balance insurance broking activities, namely Gladiator sheet: Commercial and Confused.
com, are clearly distinguishable from its motor insurance ii Income and expenses for each income segment.
This is reflected in the Groups statement are translated at average management and organisation structure and exchange rates unless this average is not a internal financial reporting systems.
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the Management classify the private motor transaction dates, in which case income insurance underwriting and private motor and expenses are translated at the date of insurance ancillary income results as one the transaction : and business segment private motor insurance.
This is because although the results are distinguishable between underwriting and iii All resulting exchange differences are non-underwriting, the activities carried out in recognised as a separate component of generating the income are not independent of equity.
each other and are carried on as one business.
This mirrors the approach in management d Insurance contracts and reinsurance reporting.
assets Premium: c Foreign currency translation The proportion of premium receivable on Functional and presentation currency in-force policies relating to unexpired risks is Items included in the financial statements reported in insurance contract liabilities and of each of the Groups entities are measured reinsurance assets as the unearned premium using the currency of the primary economic provision gross and reinsurers share environment in which the entity operates respectively.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Claims: thousands of pounds sterling, which is the Claims and claims handling expenses are Groups presentation currency.
charged as incurred, based on the estimated direct and indirect costs of settling all Transactions and balances liabilities arising on events occurring up to the Foreign currency transactions are translated balance sheet date.
into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the The provision for claims outstanding transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and comprises provisions for the estimated cost losses resulting from the settlement of such of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at transactions, and from the translation at year the balance sheet date, whether reported or end exchange rates of monetary assets and not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries are liabilities denominated in foreign currencies disclosed separately as assets.
are recognised in the income statement.
Whilst the Directors consider that the Translation differences on non-monetary gross provisions for claims and the related ADMIRAL GROUP plc 57 reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the e Intangible assets basis of the information currently available to Goodwill: them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result All business combinations are accounted for of subsequent information and events and using the purchase method.
Goodwill has may result in significant adjustments to the been recognised in acquisitions of subsidiaries, amounts provided.
and represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of Adjustments to the amounts of claims the net identifiable assets acquired.
provisions established in prior years are reflected in the income statement for the The classification and accounting treatment period in which the adjustments are made and of acquisitions occurring before 1 January disclosed separately if material.
The methods 2004 have not been reconsidered in preparing used, and the estimates made, are reviewed the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 regularly.
January 2004 due to the exemption available in IFRS 1 First time adoption.
Provision for unexpired risks is made where In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January necessary for the estimated amount required 2004, goodwill is included at the transition over and above unearned premiums to meet date on the basis of its deemed cost, which future claims and related expenses.
represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP, which was tested for impairment at the Co-insurance: transition date.
On transition, amortisation of The Group has entered into certain cogoodwill has ceased as required by IFRS.
insurance contracts under which insurance risks are shared on a proportional basis, with Goodwill is stated at cost less any the co-insurer taking a specific percentage of accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill each premium written and being responsible is allocated to cash generating units CGUs for the same proportion of each claim.
As according to business segment and is reviewed the contractual liability is several and not annually for impairment.
joint, neither the premiums nor claims relating to the co-insurance are included in the The Goodwill held on the balance sheet at income statement.
Under the terms of these 31 December 2007 is allocated solely to the agreements the co-insurers reimburse the private motor insurance segment.
Group for the same proportionate share of the costs of acquiring the business.
Impairment of goodwill: The annual impairment review involves Reinsurance assets: comparing the carrying amount to the Contracts entered into by the Group estimated recoverable amount by allocating with reinsurers under which the Group is the goodwill to CGUs and recognising an compensated for losses on the insurance impairment loss if the recoverable amount contracts issued by the Group are classified is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised as reinsurance contracts.
A contract is only through the income statement and are not accounted for as an insurance or reinsurance subsequently reversed.
contract where there is significant insurance risk transfer between the insured and the The recoverable amount is the greater of the insurer.
net realisable value and the value in use of the CGU.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under these contracts are held as reinsurance The value in use calculations use cash flow assets.
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three The Group assesses its reinsurance assets year period.
Cash flows beyond this period for impairment on a regular basis, and in are considered, but not included in the detail every six months.
If there is objective calculation.
The discount rate applied to evidence that the asset is impaired, then the the cashflow projections in the value in use carrying value will be written down to its calculations is 10.3%, based on the Groups recoverable amount.
weighted average cost of capital.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are those regarding growth rates Financial statements 43 - 94 58 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and expected changes in pricing and expenses g Leased assets incurred during the period.
Management The rental costs relating to assets held under estimates growth rates and changes in pricing operating leases are charged to the income based on past practices and expected future statement on a straight-line basis over the life changes in the market.
Deferred acquisition costs: Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and Acquisition costs comprise all direct and rewards of ownership are classed as finance indirect costs arising from the conclusion of leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition are included in property, plant and equipment costs represent the proportion of acquisition at fair value on acquisition and are depreciated costs incurred that corresponds to the in the same manner as equivalent owned unearned premiums provision at the balance assets.
Finance lease and hire purchase sheet date.
This balance is held as an obligations are included in creditors, and the intangible asset.
It is amortised over the term finance costs are spread over the periods of of the contract as premium is earned.
the agreements based on the net amount outstanding.
Software: Purchased software is recognised as an h Financial assets investments and intangible asset and amortised over its receivables expected useful life generally between two and four years.
The carrying value is reviewed Financial assets are classified according to the every six months for evidence of impairment, purpose for which they were acquired.
The with the value being written down if any Group's investments in money market liquidity impairment exists.
Impairment may be funds are designated as financial assets at reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
fair value through profit or loss FVTPL at inception.
f Property, plant and equipment and This designation is permitted under IAS 39, as depreciation the investments in money market funds are All property, plant and equipment is stated managed as a group of assets and internal at cost less accumulated depreciation.
performance evaluation of this group is Depreciation is calculated using the straightconducted on a fair value basis.
line method to write off the cost less residual values of the assets over their useful Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at economic lives.
These useful economic lives fair value, with any resultant gain or loss are as follows: recognised through the income statement.
Receivables are stated at their historic cost Motor vehicles 4 years discounted if material unless they are impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised Fixtures, fittings and 4 years equipment through the income statement.
Computer equipment 2 to 4 years i Cash and cash equivalents Improvements to short 4 years Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in leasehold properties hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment j Share capital In the case of property plant and equipment, Shares are classified as equity when there is carrying values are reviewed at each balance no obligation to transfer cash or other assets.
sheet date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets recoverable k Loans and borrowings amount is estimated and compared to the Interest bearing loans and borrowings carrying value.
The carrying value is the higher are recognised initially at fair value less of the net realisable value and the assets attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to value in use.
Impairment losses are recognised initial recognition, interest bearing loans and through the income statement.
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with ADMIRAL GROUP plc 59 any difference between cost and redemption temporary differences arising between the value being recognised in the income carrying amount of assets and liabilities for statement over the life of the borrowings on accounting purposes, and the amounts used an effective interest basis.
It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset l Employee benefits is realised.
Pensions: The Group contributes to a number of defined A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the contribution personal pension plans for its extent that it is probable that future taxable employees.
The contributions payable to profits will be available against which the asset these schemes are charged in the accounting can be utilised.
period to which they relate.
The principal temporary differences arise Employee share schemes: from depreciation of property and equipment, The Group operates a number of equity share scheme charges and the tax treatment settled compensation schemes for its of Lloyds profits.
The resulting deferred tax is employees.
For schemes commencing 1 charged or credited in the income statement, January 2004 and after, the fair value of the except in relation to share scheme charges employee services received in exchange where the amount of tax benefit credited for the grant of free shares under the to the income statement is limited to an schemes is recognised as an expense, with a equivalent credit calculated on the accounting corresponding increase in equity.
Any excess is recognised directly in equity.
The total charge expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair n Government grants value of the free shares granted as determined Government grants are recognised in the at the grant date excluding the impact of financial statements in the period where non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market it becomes reasonably certain that the conditions such as profitability targets as conditions attaching to the grant will be met, well as staff attrition rates are included in and that the grant will be received.
assumptions over the number of free shares to vest under the applicable scheme.
Grants relating to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the asset.
The grant is At each balance sheet date, the Group revises therefore recognised as income over the life its assumptions on the number of shares to be of the depreciable asset by way of a reduced granted with the impact of any change in the depreciation charge.
Grants relating to income are shown as a Refer to note 25 for further details on share deduction in the reported expense.
m Taxation Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods presented comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax: Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax: Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for Financial statements 43 - 94
