"SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc 131 The ninth Annual General Meeting AGM or Meeting Resolution 9 of BG Group plc the Company will be held in Hall 1 of That, in accordance with Section 366 and 367 of the Companies Act the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA 2006 the ""2006 Act"", the Company and all companies which are on Wednesday, 14 May 2008 at 2.00pm for the transaction subsidiaries of the Company during the period when this resolution of the business set out below."
has effect be and are hereby authorised to: This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the Companys a make political donations to political parties or independent AGM.
Resolutions 1 to 13 below are ordinary resolutions that will election candidates not exceeding 15 000 in total: be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the b make political donations to political organisations other resolutions.
Resolutions 14 to 16 are special resolutions that will than political parties not exceeding 15 000 in total: and be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set out c incur political expenditure not exceeding 20 000 in total: below.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes.
during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this Resolution and ending at the conclusion of the AGM of the ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Company in 2009.
For the purpose of this Resolution, political donations, political Resolution 1 organisations, political parties and political expenditure have the To receive the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and the meanings given to them in Sections 363 to 365 of the 2006 Act.
Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Resolution 10 Resolution 2 That the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 12.2 of the To approve the Remuneration Report as set out on pages 61 to Companys Articles of Association be renewed and for this purpose: 71 of the BG Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007. a the Section 80 amount be 117 078 772: and b the prescribed period be the period ending at the conclusion Resolution 3 of the AGM of the Company in 2009.
"To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 of 5.76 pence per ordinary share payable on 23 May 2008 Resolution 11 to holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders That the rules of the BG Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 of the Company at the close of business on 11 April 2008. the LTIP"", contained in the document produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be Resolution 4 approved and adopted and the Directors be authorised to establish To elect Dr John Hood as a Director of the Company."
such further plans for the benefit of employees outside the UK based on the LTIP subject to such modifications as may be necessary Resolution 5 or desirable to take account of non-UK securities laws, exchange To re-elect Baroness Hogg as a Director of the Company.
control and tax legislation, and provided that any shares of the Company made available under such further plans are treated as Resolution 6 counting against any limits on individual participation, or overall To re-elect Sir John Coles as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 7 Resolution 12 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the That the rules of the BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008 the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general Sharesave Plan contained in the document produced to meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved and adopted and the Directors be Resolution 8 authorised to establish such further plans for the benefit of To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration employees outside the UK based on the Sharesave Plan subject to of the Auditors.
such modifications as may be necessary or desirable to take account of non-UK securities laws, exchange control and tax legislation, and provided that any shares of the Company made available under the Sharesave Plan are treated as counting against any limits on individual participation, or overall participation in such further plans.
If you are in any doubt about its content, you should iv the rules of the BG Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 proposed consult an appropriate independent adviser.
by Resolution 11: If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send this v the rules of the BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008 proposed by Resolution document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to 12: and the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was vi the rules of the BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 proposed by effected so that they can be passed on to the person who now owns the shares.
The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities business hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Regulations 2001, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares registered Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2HS on any in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 12 May 2008 or their weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded, will also be available duly appointed proxies shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect for inspection at the place of the AGM from 1.00pm on the day of the Meeting of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes until its conclusion: to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 12 May 2008 shall i copies of all Directors service contracts and letters of appointment: be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
ii the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company: iii the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and the Articles of Association amended to reflect the changes proposed by Resolution 16: BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 132 Resolution 13 d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of That the rules of the BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 the the AGM of the Company in 2009 but a contract for purchase may be made before such expiry that will or may be executed wholly or SIP contained in the document produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved partly thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
and adopted and the Directors be authorised to establish such further plans for the benefit of employees outside the UK based on the SIP subject to such modifications as may be necessary or desirable Resolution 16 to take account of non-UK securities laws, exchange control and tax That the Articles of Association contained in the document produced legislation, and provided that any shares of the Company made to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of available under the SIP are treated as counting against any limits on identification be approved and adopted as the new Articles of individual participation, or overall participation in such further plans.
Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Registered Office: By order of the Board Resolution 14 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Keith Hubber That the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined Reading Company Secretary in Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the 1985 Act, Berkshire RG6 1PT entirely paid for in cash: Registered in England & Wales 12 March 2008 a of an unlimited amount in connection with a rights issue No.
3690065 as defined in the Companys Articles of Association : and A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, of an amount or proxies to attend, vote and speak instead of him her.
A proxy up to 16 720 201, free of the restrictions in Section 89 1 of the need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Further details on how 1985 Act provided that: to appoint a proxy are given on page 138. i this power shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2009 and is in substitution for all previous such EXPLANATORY NOTES In line with the recommendations by Paul Myners and the powers, which shall cease to have effect from the date of this Resolution, without affecting the validity of any allotment of Shareholder Voting Working Group issued in January 2004 the Myners Report, which the Company has met in full since that time, securities already made under them: and voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather than by show of hands.
ii during that period, the Directors can make offers and enter The Chairman will invite each shareholder and proxy present at the into agreements that would, or might, require equity securities Meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their to be allotted after that period.
votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman will cast In working out the maximum amount of equity securities for the the votes for which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected at the end of the Meeting.
Once the results have been purposes of paragraph b above, the nominal value of rights to subscribe for shares or to convert any securities into shares will be verified by the Companys Registrar, they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority and published on the Companys website.
taken as the nominal value of the shares that would be allotted if the subscription or conversion takes place.
Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 For the purposes of this Resolution: The Directors are required to lay before the Meeting the Accounts a references except in paragraph b below to an allotment of of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2007, the equity securities shall include a sale of Treasury shares: and Directors Report, the Remuneration Report and the Auditors Report on the accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
b the power granted by this Resolution, insofar as it relates to the allotment of equity securities rather than the sale of Treasury Remuneration Report Resolution 2 shares, is granted pursuant to the authority under Section 80 UK listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to shareholders of the 1985 Act conferred by Resolution 10. at the AGM seeking approval of the Remuneration Report.
The vote is advisory in nature, in that payments made or promised to Directors Resolution 15 will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that the That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to resolution is not passed.
make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Declaration of a dividend Resolution 3 Company ordinary shares provided that: A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 5.76 pence per a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised ordinary share is recommended by the Directors.
A final dividend can to be acquired is 334 404 035: be paid only after it has been declared by the shareholders at a general meeting.
It is proposed that shareholders declare this dividend by b the minimum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share passing Resolution 3.
If so declared, the final dividend will be paid on is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share: 23 May 2008 to ordinary shareholders who were on the register of c the maximum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share the Company at the close of business on 11 April 2008.
American is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market Depositary Share ADS holders will be entitled to receive the quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock US Dollar equivalent of 0.288 per ADS on 2 June 2008.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be 3.60 pence per ordinary share was paid on 14 September 2007. purchased: and SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 133 Election of Directors Resolution 4 Authority to allot shares Resolution 10 The Companys Articles of Association require any Director The Directors are currently authorised to allot relevant securities.
newly appointed by the Board to retire at the first AGM following However, this authority terminates on the date of the 2008 AGM.
Dr John Hood was appointed to the Board as Resolution proposes that such authority be renewed and that the a non-executive Director on 26 April 2007.
He is a member of the Directors be authorised to allot up to 1 170 787 720 ordinary shares for Audit Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
the period ending at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2009.
Biographical details of Dr Hood are given on page 47.
In reviewing The authority represents 33 1 3% excluding Treasury shares of the the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning share capital of the Company in issue at 4 March 2008, together with this election, the Board concluded that Dr Hood is independent in shares outstanding under BG Groups option schemes.
This amount character and judgment, makes an effective and valuable contribution complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
The Directors to the Board and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board have no present intention of issuing any relevant securities other unanimously recommends his election.
than pursuant to employee share schemes.
Re-election of Directors Resolutions 5 and 6 BG Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 Resolution 11 Directors are normally subject to re-election by shareholders every This Resolution seeks shareholders authority for the introduction of three years.
Baroness Hogg was elected as a Director at the AGM held the Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 the LTIP.
Following a review by in May 2005 and is therefore subject to re-election at this years AGM.
the Remuneration Committee the Committee of the share-based Sir John Coles was first elected to the Board of BG plc at its AGM in reward arrangements that apply to Executive Directors, members of April 1998 and therefore will have served on the Board for more than the Group Executive Committee the GEC and other international ten years at the date of the 2008 AGM.
In accordance with provision executives, it is proposed to introduce the LTIP.
7.2 of the Combined Code, he is subject to re-election on an annual replace the existing discretionary share-based incentive plans, basis.
He was last re-elected at the 2007 AGM.
introduced in 2000, namely: the Company Share Option Scheme: and the Long Term Incentive Scheme.
Biographical details of Baroness Hogg and Sir John Coles are shown on pages 46 and 47.
In reviewing the recommendation of The Committees review concluded that the growth and development the Nominations Committee concerning these re-elections, the of the Companys business, coupled with the economics and Board has concluded that Baroness Hogg and Sir John Coles, are demographics of the oil and gas industry, mean that the Company independent in character and judgment.
In addition and, following now requires a greater degree of flexibility in its share-based the annual evaluation exercise conducted during the year, the Board incentive arrangements.
considers that each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues The Companys expansion into new geographic areas and markets to make an effective and valuable contribution and demonstrates has increasingly demonstrated that its current share-based incentives commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously differ from the norms in those geographic areas and markets.
Although it is possible to address these challenges by compensating in other areas of the reward package, the Committee considers Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors Resolutions 7 and 8 it preferable to adopt one overall share-based plan that has the The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting flexibility to be competitive in each market.
The LTIP has been at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold office until developed to meet this objective, in consultation with major the next such meeting.
Following the recommendation of the Audit shareholders and their representative bodies.
A summary of Committee, the Directors propose that  LLP the main features of the LTIP is set out below: be re-appointed as Auditors of the Company.
Resolution 8 proposes that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the level of 1.
This summary outlines the main features of the LTIP, under which the Company may make awards to employees of the Group including Political donations Resolution 9 Executive Directors and senior management of the Company.
The LTIP Resolution 9 is designed to deal with rules on political donations will replace the existing Long Term Incentive Scheme and the and expenditure contained in Part 14 of the 2006 Act Sections 362 Company Share Option Scheme.
Under Section 378 of the 2006 Act, a company may not make Awards under the LTIP may be made as Performance Share donations to an EU political party, or other EU political organisation, Awards, Group Share Awards or Market Value Options.
The vesting or to an independent election candidate in the EU of more than of all awards will subject to limited exceptions set out below be 5 000 in total, or incur any EU political expenditure, without first dependent on continued employment and the requirement that obtaining shareholder approval.
the individuals performance has not fallen significantly below that As stated in its Business Principles, it is the Companys policy not to expected since the date of grant.
All awards have substantially the make contributions to political parties.
There is no intention to change same terms unless stated otherwise.
What constitutes a political donation, a political party, The vesting of Performance Share Awards will be subject to the a political organisation or political expenditure under the 2006 satisfaction of additional conditions linked to the performance of the Act is not clear, as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation Company.
The vesting of Group Share Awards may be subject to the and may have the effect of covering a number of normal business satisfaction of Company-linked performance conditions.
No Group activities that would not be thought to be political donations in the Share Awards will be made to Executive Directors of the Company usual sense.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the nor to members of the GEC.
2006 Act, the Board considers that it would be prudent to follow the procedure specified in the 2006 Act to obtain shareholder approval Performance Share Awards and Group Share Awards may be made for the Company and its subsidiaries to make political donations in a number of different ways including: conditional share awards, or incur political expenditure in the forthcoming year until the nil cost options or restricted shares.
conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2009.
This authority will not be used to make any political donations as that expression would normally be understood.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 134 Awards granted as Market Value Options will have an exercise price Awards will lapse at the end of the performance period to the extent based on the market value of shares at the time of grant.
The exercise that the performance conditions have not been satisfied.
There will of such options granted to the Executive Directors of the Company be no retesting.
or the members of the GEC will be subject to the satisfaction The Committee may set different performance conditions from of additional conditions linked to Company performance.
These those described above for future awards, and where these are performance conditions will be discussed with major shareholders not substantively the same as existing conditions they will be prior to the grant of any Market Value Options.
discussed with major shareholders before making any such The LTIP also provides flexibility to make economically equivalent awards.
Performance conditions will be described in the awards including cash awards, for example as a result of local tax Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts.
or regulatory considerations, if this is appropriate in any jurisdiction.
The Committee may also vary or adjust the performance conditions Exceptionally, awards to Executive Directors and members of the applying to existing awards to take account of events the Committee GEC may be made without Company-linked performance conditions, considers exceptional, including technical events, such as changes in for example to facilitate recruitment in exceptional circumstances.
accounting standards and treatment, and the takeover of a company in the index, provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the On the initial operation of the LTIP, it is intended that Executive amended conditions are fair and reasonable and no less challenging Directors and members of the GEC will only be granted Performance than the original conditions would have been but for the event.
Operation The Company increasingly operates in markets outside the UK Awards will normally be made within 42 days after the and requires the flexibility to offer incentive packages which are announcement of the Company's results for any period.
Awards competitive in those markets.
This includes being able to make may also be made at other times in exceptional circumstances.
It is share-based awards in different forms under the LTIP.
To ensure that intended that the first awards will be made on 2 September 2008. the Company can measure the value of the different types of awards on a consistent basis across the different markets, there will be an 3.
Eligibility individual limit on participation in any financial year linked to the All employees and Executive Directors of the Company or of any Estimated Present Value EPV of awards.
subsidiary of the Company are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Participation by Executive Directors, including the size of the awards The overriding EPV limit on individual participation in the first and the terms of the performance conditions, will be determined financial year of operation of the LTIP will be 250% of salary.
subsequent financial years, it is intended that the limit will be 300% of salary.
EPV of share-based incentives is calculated as the present 4.
Performance conditions value of the average outcome weighted by the probability of that Where the receipt of shares and the number of shares received is outcome.
This takes into account the difficulty of achieving the subject to the satisfaction of certain pre-determined performance associated performance conditions, and factors such as volatility conditions, then the aim will be to link receipt to an improvement in and risk of forfeiture.
EPV will be calculated by the Committees the performance of the Company over a performance period of not independent adviser.
In addition, awards may be forfeited or the vesting An additional constraint will also operate whereby a separate limit reduced if over the vesting period the performance of the individual of six times salary will apply to the face value of each of the three types has fallen significantly below that expected since the date of grant.
of award, being Performance Share Awards, Group Share Awards and The performance conditions will be set by the Committee each time Market Value Options, in any one financial year.
No Group Share the LTIP is operated.
In respect of the initial Performance Share Awards Awards will be made to Executive Directors of the Company to be made in September 2008, it is intended that the receipt of shares or members of the GEC.
No Market Value Options will be granted will be conditional on the satisfaction of the performance conditions in the first financial year of operation of the LTIP.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that Both EPV and face value limits may be exceeded only in exceptional the underlying performance of the Company justifies the vesting circumstances such as recruitment.
The limits will be notified of awards and the level of vesting.
The performance period will be a to shareholders each year in the Remuneration Report, together single three year period which will begin on 1 September 2008 and with details of the performance conditions.
Awards will vest on the later of the testing of the performance conditions and the third anniversary of the An award will normally lapse where participants leave the date of grant.
Group before they become eligible to receive the shares unless the employment ceases due to ill health, injury or disability, retirement, Vesting will be based on the Companys three year total shareholder redundancy, death, where there is a sale of the employing business or return TSR relative to a weighted index comprised of a selection company, or for other reasons specifically allowed by the Committee.
No shares will vest if the Companys TSR is less than If a participant ceases employment in such circumstances, any the index TSR.
If the Companys TSR is equal to the index TSR, 25% of subsisting awards held by that participant will normally be tested an award will vest.
If the Companys TSR meets or exceeds 122.5% of for satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time of leaving the index 7% per annum compound out-performance, 100% of an employment.
Except on death, the number of shares which may award will vest.
Between these two points Performance Share Awards be acquired will be reduced on a pro-rata basis to take account of will vest on a linear sliding scale basis.
The preliminary constituents of the proportion of the vesting period when the participant was the index for 2008 awards are as follows: not in employment, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
The Anadarko Petroleum Corporation: Apache Corporation: BP plc: Committee may use its discretion to test performance at the end Chevron Corporation: ConocoPhillips: Devon Energy Corporation: of the original performance period.
If this occurs, awards will be ENI S. p. A. : EOG Resources, Inc. : Exxon Mobil Corporation: Hess pro-rated for time as described above unless the Committee Corporation: Marathon Oil Corporation: Petro-Canada: Repsol YPF S. A. : decides otherwise.
Royal Dutch Shell plc: StatoilHydro ASA: Talisman Energy Inc. : Total S. A. : and Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
Change of control, merger or other reorganisations they are employed by the Company or any participating Generally, on a takeover, scheme of arrangement, merger or other subsidiary of the Company: and corporate reorganisation, the number of shares received if any will they have been continuously employed by the Company or be calculated by applying any performance conditions as at the date a participating subsidiary of the Company for a minimum of the event.
Alternatively, participants may be allowed or required period up to five years.
by the Company to exchange their shares for shares in the acquiring company.
Time pro-rating will apply if the Committee determines that In addition, the Directors may send invitations to any other employee this is appropriate given the circumstances of the change of control.
including Executive Directors of the Company or any participating subsidiary of the Company who do not meet those criteria.
Variations Invitations will normally be made within 42 days of an announcement Participants will be notified by the Company where there is a variation of results and in other exceptional circumstances.
Options will not be in the share capital of the Company, a demerger or a special dividend.
Upon such an event, the Committee may adjust the awards in any way it considers appropriate.
Savings contract The principle of the Sharesave Plan is that an employee is granted an 8.
Rights option to acquire Company shares at a fixed option price see below.
Conditional share awards and options will not enjoy any shareholder The employee must enter into a savings contract and save at least rights until the shares have been acquired by the participant.
However, 5 but not more than 250 per month or such other sum as may be participants may receive a payment in cash or shares of an amount allowed by legislation.
Shares can only be bought with the amount equal to the dividends which would have been payable on the shares saved plus any bonus paid under the savings contract.
received during the vesting period.
In the case of restricted shares, participants are entitled to dividends and to vote the shares during 3.
Option price the vesting period unless the Company determines otherwise.
The option price must not be less than 80% of the market value of Any shares issued under the LTIP will rank equally with shares of the the shares on the business day before the date of grant or the average same class and in issue on the date of allotment except in respect of market value over the three preceding business days.
rights by reference to a record date prior to the date of allotment.
In addition, Treasury shares may be used to satisfy awards under the LTIP.
Plan limits In any ten year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary share 9.
Dilution limits capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be issued In any ten year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary share under the Sharesave Plan and all other employee share plans operated capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be issued by the Company.
If shares are transferred from treasury to satisfy under the LTIP and all other employee share plans operated by the options these will also be counted towards the dilution limits for as Company.
In addition, in any ten year period, not more than 5% of long as this is required by the Association of British Insurers guidelines.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be issued under the LTIP and all other discretionary 5.
Exercise of options share plans adopted by the Company.
If shares are transferred from Options are normally exercisable within six months after the third, treasury to satisfy awards, these will also be counted towards the fifth or seventh anniversary of the start of the savings contract.
dilution limits for as long as this is required by the Association of Options may, however, be exercised early in certain circumstances.
These include, for example, an employee leaving because of injury, disability, retirement, death or redundancy or his employing company 10.
Amendments to the LTIP or business being sold out of the Group.
On cessation of employment The Committee may amend the LTIP as it considers appropriate.
for other reasons, options will normally lapse.
However, shareholder approval will be required to amend certain provisions of the LTIP if they are to the advantage of the participants.
Change of control, merger or other reorganisation These provisions relate to: eligibility: individual and plan limits: the Options may generally be exercised early on a takeover, scheme basis for determining entitlements to shares: rights attaching to of arrangement, merger or other reorganisation.
Alternatively, shares: rights in the event of a variation in the Company's share optionholders may be allowed or required to exchange their options capital: and the amendment powers.
for options over shares in the acquiring company.
Issue of shares The Committee may terminate the LTIP at any time which will, Any shares issued on the exercise of options will rank equally with in any event, end on the tenth anniversary of the approval of shares of the same class in issue on the date of allotment except in the shareholders.
respect of rights arising by reference to a prior record date.
Treasury shares may also be used for the Sharesave Plan.
BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008 Resolution 12 This resolution seeks shareholders authority for the introduction 8.
Variation in share capital of the Sharesave Plan 2008 the Sharesave Plan to replace the Options may be adjusted following any variation in the share capital existing BG Group Sharesave Scheme which is due to expire.
with the existing Sharesave Scheme, the new Sharesave Plan will be approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC in the UK and will 9.
Amendments to the Sharesave Plan enable the Company to offer UK employees the opportunity to acquire The Committee may amend the Sharesave Plan as it considers shares in the Company in a tax-favoured way.
A summary of the main appropriate.
However, shareholder approval will be required to amend features of the Sharesave Plan is set out below: certain provisions of the Sharesave Plan if they are to the advantage of the participants.
These provisions relate to: eligibility: individual 1.
Invitations and plan limits: the basis for determining entitlements to shares: When the Sharesave Plan is operated, invitations must be sent to rights attaching to shares: rights in the event of a variation in the any eligible employee or full-time Executive Director that satisfies Company's share capital: and the amendment powers.
Amendments the following conditions: to the Sharesave Plan are subject to prior approval of HMRC.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 136 BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 Resolution 13 If the participant ceases to be employed within the minimum three This resolution seeks shareholders authority to renew the BG Group year period or within such shorter period as the Directors may decide other than for a specified reason such as retirement, redundancy or Share Incentive Plan to be re-named the BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 SIP, which is due to expire in 2010 and to restate its disability, his matching shares will be forfeited.
The SIP will continue to be approved by HMRC and will enable the Company to offer UK employees the opportunity 6.
Dividends to acquire shares in the Company in a tax-favoured way.
A summary The SIP provides that Directors may permit any dividends paid on the of the main features of the SIP is set out below: free, partnership or matching shares to be re-invested in the purchase of additional shares, which must be held in the SIP for a period of 1.
The SIP offers three ways to provide shares to employees based in the UK, namely: free: partnership: and matching shares.
Voting rights all three elements, and the Directors have power to decide which, if Participants may direct the Trustees how to exercise the voting rights any, of them should be used.
The SIP operates in conjunction with attributable to the shares held on their behalf.
The Trustees will not a trust, which will hold shares on behalf of employees.
It is intended exercise the voting rights unless they receive the participants that HMRC approval for the renewal of the SIP will be sought in due instructions.
Benefits under the SIP are not pensionable.
Eligibility In any ten year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary UK employees and Executive Directors of the Company and any share capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be subsidiaries designated by the Directors as participating companies issued under the SIP and all other employee share plans operated by are eligible to join the SIP, if they have worked for the Company or the Company.
If shares are transferred from treasury to satisfy awards, a participating company for a qualifying period determined by the these will also be counted towards the dilution limits for as long as Directors, which may not exceed 18 months.
this is required by the Association of British Insurers guidelines.
Amendments to the SIP The SIP provides for the award of free shares worth up to a maximum The Committee may amend the SIP as it considers appropriate.
set by the legislation currently 3 000 to each eligible employee each However, shareholder approval will be required to amend certain year.
The shares must generally be offered on similar terms, but the provisions of the SIP if they are to the advantage of the participants.
award may be subject to performance targets.
Similar terms means These provisions relate to: eligibility: individual and plan limits: the the terms may only be varied by reference to remuneration, length of basis for determining entitlements to shares: rights attaching to service or hours worked.
shares: rights in the event of a variation in the Company's share capital: and the amendment powers.
Amendments to the SIP are Free shares must be held in trust for a period of between three subject to prior approval of HMRC.
and five years at the discretion of the Company and will be free of UK income tax and social security if held in trust for five years.
If a Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 14 participant leaves employment with the Group, his shares cease to The Directors are currently authorised to allot unissued shares for be subject to the SIP.
The SIP may be operated on the basis that the cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion shares are forfeited if the participant leaves employment within three to their holdings a pre-emptive offer.
However, this authority years of the award other than through death, retirement, redundancy, terminates on the date of the 2008 AGM.
This Resolution injury or disability, or his employing company or business being sold proposes that such authority be renewed and that the Directors out of the Group.
be authorised to allot up to 167 202 017 ordinary shares for cash without a pre-emptive offer being made for the period ending at the 4.
Partnership shares conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2009.
This authority will also The SIP provides for employees to be offered the opportunity to cover the sale of Treasury shares for cash.
The authority represents purchase shares out of monthly savings contributions from pre-tax approximately 5% of the share capital in issue at 4 March 2008. salary up to the maximum set by the legislation currently 1 500 BG Group does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued in each tax year, or 10% of salary if less.
Employees can stop saving share capital of the Company in any rolling three year period.
The employees contributions may be used to buy These amounts comply with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
partnership shares immediately or accumulated for up to 12 months before they are used to buy shares.
Where they are accumulated, the Authority to make market purchases of own ordinary shares price at which they are acquired is the lesser of the price at the Resolution 15 beginning of the accumulation period and the end.
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company Partnership shares can be withdrawn from the SIP by the participant to purchase its own ordinary shares and Resolution 15 seeks authority at any time, but there will be a UK tax and social security liability if the from shareholders to do so.
The Resolution specifies the maximum shares are withdrawn before five years.
number of shares that may be acquired 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at 5.
Matching shares which they may be bought.
The SIP provides that where employees buy partnership shares, they Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors determine may be awarded additional free matching shares by the Company on that they are to be held as Treasury shares, be cancelled and the a matching basis, up to a current maximum of two matching shares number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
Shares held for each partnership share.
Matching shares must be held in trust for in treasury will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken a minimum of three years and will be free of UK income tax and social into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they security if held in trust for five years.
are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
The SIP may be operated on the basis that if a participant withdraws his corresponding partnership shares before the Trustees have held them for up to three years, he will forfeit the linked matching shares.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 137 During February 2008, the Company completed the share repurchase There are safeguards that will apply when Directors decide whether programme of 750 million announced in February 2007, having to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who repurchased 88 million ordinary shares at an average price of 8.51 have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take per share.
the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most These shares are held in treasury in accordance with Section likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able 162 A of the 1985 Act and used to satisfy awards under the Long Term to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think Incentive Scheme and Share Incentive Plan pursuant to Section this is appropriate.
In addition, these shares may be used to satisfy awards under the new share plans described above.
No dividends are The new Articles of Association contain conflict management paid on and no voting rights attach to Treasury shares.
Any Treasury provisions relating to confidential information and attendance at shares sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares Board meetings to protect a Director being in breach of duty if that, if Resolution 14 is passed, may be issued without offering them a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These first to existing shareholders.
provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at the 2008 AGM, purchases after that date are subject to renewed It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Directors will use the authority procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation to purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking into of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have account market conditions, other investment opportunities, been followed.
appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking 2.
Form of resolutions and general meetings into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefit for The proposed new Articles of Association have been amended shareholders.
so as to remove all references to extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary general meetings as neither of these concepts have The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares been retained under the 2006 Act.
outstanding at 4 March 2008 is 56.1 million.
This represents 1.68% of the issued share capital at that date excluding Treasury shares.
Notice of general meetings If the Company bought back the maximum number of shares Article 53.1 of the proposed new Articles of Association is amended permitted pursuant to the existing authority as well as the authority to cater for the new provision regarding notice periods set out in the being sought by the passing of this resolution and cancelled them, 2006 Act.
The 2006 Act reduces the minimum notice period for all then the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares general meetings other than the annual general meeting to 14 clear outstanding at that date would represent 2.05% of the issued days and the amendments to Article 53.1 allow the Company to take share capital excluding Treasury shares as reduced following advantage of such provision.
At 4 March 2008, there were no warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding.
Polls and proxies Article 62.1 of the proposed new Articles of Association has been Adoption of new Articles of Association Resolution 16 amended to clarify that a poll may be demanded by a majority of The proposed new Articles of Association reflect those provisions the Directors present at the meeting.
of the 2006 Act which have been brought into force since the last AGM.
Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as on a poll, and shareholders may appoint a proxy to exercise all Set out below is a summary of the main differences between the or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings.
Multiple current and the proposed new Articles of Association.
This summary proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to has been prepared in order to assist shareholders in understanding exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
Articles 69.1 the rationale for and substance of the proposed amendments.
and 74.5 of the proposed new Articles of Association reflect these new Although the new Articles of Association are in many respects largely proxy rights.
unchanged from the current Articles of Association, the Directors recommend that shareholders pass a resolution to adopt new 5.
Quorum Articles of Association rather than to pass resolutions detailing The proposed amendment to Article 98.1, which deals with the each individual amendment.
quorum requirement for Board meetings, clarifies that the presence of a quorum will be determined separately in relation to each matter 1.
Directors interests or resolution considered or voted on at the meeting.
This will The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify mean that if a Director cannot count in the quorum for a particular the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from resolution because for example he is interested in the outcome of the 1 October 2008, a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation resolution he may still count in the quorum for the other resolutions where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or to be voted on at the meeting.
possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a Recommendation director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The The Board considers the above resolutions will promote the success 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of association shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles you vote in favour of all the above resolutions as they intend to do to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of so themselves in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The new Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 138 Appointing a proxy Electronic proxy appointment through CREST Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM, provided CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a to be held on 14 May 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using different share or shares.
A proxy does not need to be a shareholder the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST shareholder.
A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and instructions members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should for its use are shown on the form.
Appointing a proxy does not refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and voting in person.
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Proxy forms must be submitted by 2.00pm on 12 May 2008 to Equiniti, In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT.
Details service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy of how to appoint your proxy electronically are given below.
Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited Euroclear specifications and must Electronic proxy voting contain the information required for such instructions, as described in Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy or proxies for 4 the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the AGM electronically at www.
co. uk, a website operated the appointment of a proxy or proxies, or an amendment to the by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti.
Shareholders are advised to read instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order the terms and conditions, shown on the website, relating to the use of to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent this facility before appointing a proxy.
Any electronic communication ID 7RA01 by 2.00pm on 12 May 2008.
For this purpose, the time of sent by a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp not be accepted.
Electronic communication facilities are available to applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged in the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to any way.
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any Corporate representatives change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should Corporate shareholders are encouraged to appoint a proxy or multiple be communicated to the appointee through other means.
proxies in preference to appointing corporate representatives given CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting the uncertainty arising from the provisions in the 2006 Act regarding service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available the validity of votes cast by multiple corporate representatives.
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal However, where corporate shareholders have appointed multiple system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the corporate representatives, the Company intends to follow the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Administrators ICSA, as described below.
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting Meeting, arrangements will be in place at the Meeting so that: service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated with those directions.
Voting cards will be made available Securities Regulations 2001. to corporate representatives at the Meeting: and Persons nominated by shareholders ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate A copy of this Notice has been sent for information only to persons shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder who have been nominated by a shareholder to enjoy information rights has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate under Section 146 of the 2006 Act a Nominated Person.
The rights representative, a designated corporate representative will to appoint a proxy set out in this Notice do not apply to Nominated be nominated from those corporate representatives who Persons: they can only be exercised by the shareholder.
However, a attend the Meeting, and will vote on a poll.
The other corporate Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him representatives will give voting directions to that designated and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated to be appointed corporate representative.
In accordance with the ICSAs guidance, as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a the designated corporate representatives shall be the first of the Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to corporate representatives to have registered his her attendance exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement to give at the Meeting.
Voting cards will be made available to corporate instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Total shares and voting rights Corporate shareholders are recommended to read the guidance As at 4 March 2008, the Companys capital consisted of 3 575 542 325 issued by the ICSA on proxies and corporate representatives at ordinary shares in issue of which 231 501 966 representing www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance approximately 6.47% of the total share capital were held in treasury.
includes a sample form of representation letter for those corporate Therefore, the total number of voting rights in BG Group plc as shareholders wishing to appoint the Chairman as its designated at 4 March 2008 was 3 344 040 359. corporate representative as described in i above.
Should you have any queries in relation to proxy appointments or corporate Summary of AGM business representatives, please contact the Companys Registrar, A summary of the business carried out at the Meeting will Equiniti, on 0871 384 2064. be published on the Groups website.
This electronic address is provided solely for the purposes of enabling shareholders to register their appointment of a proxy or proxies for the AGM electronically.
The Company will not accept any other document or information relating to proceedings of the Meeting which may be sent by electronic means to that address.
