FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal accounting policies 73 BASIS OF PREPARATION BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 In the event of a business combination, fair values are attributed have been prepared in accordance with International Financial to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the Reporting Standards IFRS, and International Financial Reporting difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations.
These include the net assets acquired, is capitalised and subject to an impairment standards and interpretations adopted by the EU.
In addition, review at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies is treated as an asset of the relevant entity to which it relates, reporting under IFRS.
The Financial Statements have been prepared including foreign entities.
Accordingly, it is re-translated into pounds primarily using historical cost principles except that, as disclosed Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at each balance sheet date.
in the accounting policies below, certain items, including derivatives, are measured at fair value.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EXCLUDING DECOMMISSIONING ASSETS The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with All property, plant and equipment is carried at depreciated Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP requires historical cost.
Additions represent new, or replacements management to make judgments and assumptions that affect of specific components of, property, plant and equipment.
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the Financial Statements and the Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and reported revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
equipment including government grants are included in creditors Actual results could differ from these estimates.
BG Group as deferred income and credited to the income statement over believes that the accounting policies associated with exploration the life of the assets.
Finance costs associated with borrowings expenditure, depreciation, decommissioning, impairments, used to finance major capital projects are capitalised up to the financial instruments including commodity contracts, and point at which the asset is ready for its intended use.
revenue recognition are the policies where changes in estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on the Financial DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION Statements.
Further discussion on these policies, estimates and Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and judgments can be found in the Financial review, pages 28 to 37: equipment, except exploration and production assets, is depreciated note 6, page 93: note 11, page 96: and note 21, page 104. on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical cost less residual value of individual assets over their estimated The presentation adopted by the Group for its results under useful economic lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal IFRS is explained in note 2, page 82. categories of assets are as follows: BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts Mains, services and meters up to 60 years of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the Plant and machinery 5 to 30 years results of its share of jointly controlled entities and associates using Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years the equity method of accounting.
Consistent accounting policies have been used to prepare the consolidated Financial Statements.
Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the Most of BG Groups Exploration and Production activity is conducted commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the through jointly controlled operations.
BG Group accounts for its own unit of production method based on the proved developed reserves share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with these of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves is used jointly controlled operations using the proportional consolidation for acquired interests and for facilities.
Changes in these estimates method.
The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated Asset lives are kept under review and complete asset life reviews are from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
For the Company Financial Statements only, investments Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are recognised in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision at cost less amortisation.
They are amortised on a straight-line for impairment.
basis over the term of the related contracts.
PRESENTATION OF RESULTS IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS The Group presents its results in the income statement Any impairment of non-current assets is calculated as the difference to separately identify the contribution of disposals, certain between the carrying values of cash generating units including re-measurements and impairments in order to provide associated goodwill and their recoverable amount, being the higher readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the of the estimated value in use or fair value less costs to sell at the underlying operating performance of the Groups ongoing date the impairment loss is recognised.
Value in use represents the business, see note 2, page 82 and note 10, page 96. net present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis.
SEGMENT REPORTING The Groups primary format for segment reporting is business ASSETS HELD FOR SALE segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.
When an asset or disposal groups carrying value will be This reflects the fact that the risks and returns of the Groups recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through operations are primarily based on its business activities rather continuing use, it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower than the geographical location of the Groups operations.
of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Principal accounting policies continued 74 INVENTORIES FOREIGN CURRENCIES Inventories, including inventories of gas, liquefied natural gas LNG On consolidation, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign and oil held for sale in the ordinary course of business, are stated at currencies are translated into pounds Sterling the functional weighted average historical cost less provision for deterioration and currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.
Group at closing rates of exchange.
Trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into pounds Sterling at average rates of exchange.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net Revenue associated with exploration and production sales of crude assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
Any oil and petroleum products including natural gas is recorded differences arising from 1 January 2003, the date of transition when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the production to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
of natural gas and oil in which the Group has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the Groups working interest and Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts entitlement to the income statement, with the exception of exchange method.
Differences between production sold and the Groups differences on monetary items that form part of a net investment share of production are not significant.
These differences are taken to reserves until the related net investment is disposed of.
All other exchange Sales of LNG and associated products are recognised when title movements are dealt with through the income statement.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised over the period of the relevant contract.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Revenue from gas transmission and distribution activities is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits with recognised in the same period in which the related volumes a maturity of three months or less, and other short-term highly are delivered to the customer.
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known For power stations which are contracted based on availability, amounts of cash.
revenue is recognised based on the availability status of the power station to produce at a given point in time.
Where power output DEFERRED TAX is sold under pool or other contractual arrangements and where Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability revenue is linked to the costs of actual production, revenue is method, on temporary differences arising between the tax recognised when the output is delivered.
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements.
Currently enacted tax rates are used in All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
the determination of deferred income tax.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE will be available, against which the temporary differences can be BG Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for utilised.
Exploration expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible asset when incurred Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on and certain expenditure, such as geological and geophysical investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, exploration costs, is expensed.
A review of each licence or field is except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference carried out, at least annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference have been discovered.
When proved reserves are determined, will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the relevant expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated LEASES on a unit of production basis.
Expenditure deemed to be Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in unsuccessful is written off to the income statement.
Exploration property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value and the expenditure is assessed for impairment when facts and present value of the minimum lease payments as determined at circumstances suggest that its carrying amount exceeds its the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, recoverable amount.
For the purposes of impairment testing, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are determined exploration and production assets may be aggregated into at the inception of the lease and included within borrowings.
appropriate cash generating units based on considerations The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to including geographical location, the use of common facilities accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant and marketing arrangements.
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
DECOMMISSIONING COSTS The Group has certain long-term arrangements under which it has Where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred, acquired all of the capacity of certain property, plant and equipment.
provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost In circumstances where it is considered that the Group has the of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields.
majority of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant, the When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, arrangement is considered to contain a finance lease.
an asset is recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income with the life of the underlying producing field, otherwise the costs statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
are charged to the income statement.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the income statement FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS within finance costs.
Any changes to estimated costs or discount Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised rates are dealt with prospectively.
and subsequently measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Groups treasury operations include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, www.
com FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 cross currency interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits and forward exchange contracts.
is charged to the income statement over the periods benefiting from the employees services.
Current service costs are reflected Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in operating profit and financing costs are reflected in finance in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Gains and losses costs in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from the re-measurement of these financial instruments that exceed the greater of 10% of plan assets or plan obligations are either recognised in the income statement or deferred in equity are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees depending on the type of hedging relationship.
When a hedging participating in the plan and are reflected in operating profit.
instrument is sold or expires, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains in equity until the hedged transaction Contributions made to defined contribution pension plans is recognised in the income statement.
are charged to the income statement when payable.
Movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS not included in hedging relationships are recognised in the income The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is statement.
charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the Loans held by the Group are initially measured at fair value and related share options or share allocations.
The cost is based on subsequently carried at amortised cost except where they form the the fair value of the options or shares allocated and the number underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship of awards expected to vest.
The fair value of each option or share when the carrying value is adjusted to reflect fair value movements is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model associated with the hedged risks.
Such adjustments are reported in or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions Other financial instruments such as receivable balances are are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number measured at amortised cost less impairments.
Liabilities associated of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the with financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair number actually vesting.
value and re-measured at each balance sheet date.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS All research and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred.
Within the ordinary course of business the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for commodities.
The majority Development expenditure is written off as incurred unless it meets of these transactions take the form of contracts that were entered the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Where into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised of the commodity in accordance with the Groups expected sale, and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Such contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Certain long-term gas sales contracts operating in the UK gas market have terms within the contract that constitute written options, and accordingly they fall within the scope of IAS 39.
In addition, commodity instruments are used to manage certain price exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location of its physical gas and LNG commitments.
These contracts are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair value recognised in the income statement, see Presentation of results above, note 2, page 82, and note 10, page 96.
The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity prices.
Such contracts include physical and net settled forwards, futures, swaps and options.
Where these derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges of underlying commodity price exposures, certain gains and losses attributable to these instruments are deferred in equity and recognised in the income statement when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises.
All other commodity contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are measured at fair value with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
Gas contracts and related derivative instruments associated with the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party gas are presented on a net basis within other operating income.
PENSIONS The amount recognised on the balance sheet in respect of liabilities for defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans represents the present value of the obligations offset by the fair value of plan assets and excluding actuarial gains and losses not recognised.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
