Presentation of non-GAAP measures 140 BG Group gives certain additional information in a non-statutory Realised gains and losses relating to the instruments referred to format in order to provide readers with an increased insight into the above are included in Business Performance.
This presentation underlying performance of the business.
The measures BG Group best reflects the underlying performance of the business since it uses are explained below.
distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actual realised gains Business Performance and losses.
Business Performance excludes disposals, certain BG Group has also separately identified profits and losses associated re-measurements and impairments see below, and is presented with the disposal of non-current assets and impairments of nonas exclusion of these items provides readers with a clear and current assets as they require separate disclosure in order to consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance provide a clearer understanding of the results for the period.
For a of the Groups ongoing business.
reconciliation between the overall results and Business Performance BG Group uses commodity instruments to manage price exposures and details of disposals, re-measurements and impairments, see associated with its marketing and optimisation activity in the UK note 2, page 82. and USA.
This activity enables the Group to take advantage of commodity price movements.
It is considered more appropriate to Joint ventures and associates include both unrealised and realised gains and losses arising from Under IFRS the results from jointly controlled entities joint the mark-to-market of derivatives associated with this activity in ventures and associates, accounted for under the equity method, Business Performance.
are required to be presented net of finance costs and tax on the face of the income statement.
Given the relevance of these businesses Disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments within BG Group, the results of joint ventures and associates are BG Groups commercial arrangements for marketing gas include the presented before interest and tax, and after tax.
This approach use of long-term gas sales contracts.
Whilst the activity surrounding provides additional information on the source of BG Groups these contracts involves the physical delivery of gas, certain UK gas operating profits.
For a reconciliation between operating profit and sales contracts are classified as derivatives under the rules of earnings including and excluding the results of joint ventures and International Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial Instruments: associates, see note 2, page 82.
Recognition and Measurement, issued by the IASB and are required to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Unrealised Exchange rates and prices gains and losses on these contracts reflect the comparison between BG Group also discloses certain information, as indicated, at current market gas prices and the actual prices to be realised under constant US$ UK exchange rates and upstream prices.
The the gas sales contract and are disclosed separately as disposals, representation of results in this manner is intended to provide measurements and impairments.
additional information to explain further the underlying trends in the business.
The disclosure re-calculates the current year profit BG Group also uses commodity instruments to manage certain price on the basis that the US$ UK exchange rate and the upstream exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location of its commodity prices were the same as in the previous year so physical gas and LNG commitments.
These instruments are also providing a comparable base in respect of these two factors.
required to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date under IAS 39.
However, IAS 39 does not allow the matching of Net borrowings funds these fair values to the economically hedged value of the related BG Group provides an analysis of the amounts included within commodity, resulting in unrealised movements in fair value net borrowings funds as this is an important liquidity measure being recorded in the income statement.
These movements in for the Group.
fair value are disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
Return on average capital employed ROACE represents profit before tax excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments BG Group also uses financial instruments, including derivatives, plus net interest payable on net borrowings, as a percentage of to manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
instruments are required to be recognised at fair value or amortised cost on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of these instruments have been designated either as hedges of foreign exchange movements associated with the Groups net investments in foreign operations, or as hedges of interest rate risk.
Where these instruments cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements in fair value are recorded in the income statement and disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
