qxp:Layout 1 18 3 08 15:36 Page b Our vision Glossary of Terms 141 For the purpose of this Report the following definitions apply: $ US Dollars managed volumes Comprises all LNG volumes contracted for UK pounds Sterling purchase and having related revenue and Natural gas is our business.
We are ABI Association of British Insurers other operating income recognised in the ADR American Depositary Receipt applicable period ADS American Depositary Share mmbbls Million barrels AGM Annual General Meeting mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent a rapidly growing company, with bcf Billion cubic feet mmbtu Million British thermal units bcfd Billion cubic feet per day mmbtud Million British thermal units per day bcma Billion cubic metres per annum mmcm Million cubic metres BG Group BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, mmscfd Million standard cubic feet per day expertise throughout the gas chain.
joint ventures and associated undertakings mtpa Million tonnes per annum BG Energy Holdings BG Energy Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of MW Megawatt Limited or BGEH BG Group plc MWeq Megawatt equivalent billion or bn One thousand million NGV Natural Gas Vehicle boe Barrels of oil equivalent NYSE New York Stock Exchange boed Barrels of oil equivalent per day OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and We are a leading natural gas bopd Barrels of oil per day Development CATS The North Sea Central Area Transmission OTCQX the US over-the-counter market on which System pipeline BG Groups ADRs are listed.
See page 56 CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine PSC Production Sharing Contract Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Proved reserves see page 125 company in the global energy issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council Probable reserves see page 125 Company BG Group plc Risked exploration see page 125 CR Corporate Responsibility ROACE Return on Average Capital Employed CSOS Company Share Option Scheme T&D Transmission and Distribution market operating responsibly and E&P Exploration and Production three year proved The three year average proved reserve EPV Estimated Present Value reserve replacement replacement rate is the total net proved EU European Union rate or RRR reserves changes over the three year period FEED Front End Engineering Design including purchases and sales excluding delivering value to our shareholders.
Finding & Development The three year average unit finding & production divided by the total net production costs or F&D development cost is calculated by dividing the for that period total exploration, development and unproved three year organic The RRR excluding purchases and sales of acquisition costs incurred over the period by the proved reserve reserves in place and the impact of the 2007 total changes in net proved reserves excluding replacement rate year end price adjustment on total net proved purchases, sales and production for that period reserves We do this by connecting Financial Statements The Group and parent company financial Unit lifting costs Unit lifting costs per boe is calculated by statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 per boe excluding royalty, tariff and insurance costs which comprise the consolidated income from Unit operating costs expenditure as statement, the balance sheets, the cash flow defined below competitively priced resources statements, the consolidated statement of Unit operating costs Unit operating expenditure per boe is recognised income and expense, and the related expenditure per boe calculated by dividing Production and Other notes operating costs royalties on page 125 by the GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles net production for the period.
This measure GASA Gas Argentino S. A. does not include the impact of depreciation to high value markets.
Group BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, and amortisation costs and exploration costs joint ventures and associated undertakings as they are not considered to be costs GW Gigawatt associated with the operation of producing HSSE Health, Safety, Security and the Environment assets IAS International Accounting Standard issued by Un-booked resources see page 125 the IASB RPIX Retail Prices Index excluding mortgage IASB International Accounting Standards Board interest repayments IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards SEC The United States Securities and Exchange issued by the IASB and endorsed by the Commission European Union SID Senior Independent Director LNG Liquefied Natural Gas SIP Share Incentive Plan LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan tcf Trillion cubic feet LTIS Long Term Incentive Scheme UKCS United Kingdom Continental Shelf m Million WDDM West Delta Deep Marine LEGAL NOTICE Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts contain forward-looking information concerning the Groups strategy, operations, financial performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in which the Group operates.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, not all of which are within the Companys control or can be predicted by the Company.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Actual results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements.
For a detailed analysis of the factors that may affect our business, financial performance or results of operations, we urge you to look at the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast, and no part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in BG Group plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
BG Group is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
BG Group is a designated foreign issuer for the purposes of National Instrument 71-102 Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions of the Canadian Securities Administrators.
EXPLANATORY NOTE FOR US INVESTORS RELATING TO GAS AND OIL RESERVES AND RESOURCES BG Group continues voluntarily to use the SEC definition of proved reserves to report proved gas and oil reserves in this Annual Report and Accounts.
For further details of BG Groups proved reserves as at 31 December 2007, and related supplemental gas and oil information, see Supplementary information gas and oil, on page 121.
This Report also contains additional information about other BG Group gas and oil reserves and resources that would not be permitted in SEC filings.
For an explanation of terms used in connection with such additional reserves and resources information, refer to page 125. www.
com investors BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 FC&BC.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 08 16:50 Page 1 A world leader in natural gas BG Group plc This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on 4 100 Thames Valley Park Drive think bright.
This paper is produced from 100% Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is fully www.
It has FSC Forest Stewardship Council certication and has been manufactured within Annual Report and Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 a mill which is registered under the British and international quality standard of Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental Accounts 2007 Printed by Butler and Tanner.
