Statement of Directors Responsibilities 41 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
under IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the parent company financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the corporate and financial information included on the companys The financial statements are also required by law to be properly website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ of the IAS Regulation.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
