Directors Report Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Alliance & Leicester plc 42 We have audited the Group and parent Company financial Basis of Audit Opinion statements the financial statements of Alliance & Leicester plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2007, which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and parent Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and parent Company evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related Notes to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant 1 to 44.
These financial statements have been prepared under the estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys described as having been audited.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our information and explanations which we considered necessary in audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companys members those matters we are required to state to assurance that the financial statements and the part of the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, In our opinion: the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with applicable law and International Financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
and of its profit for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Companys We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial affairs as at 31 December 2007: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the financial statements and the part of the Directors statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the information given in the Directors Report is consistent not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all with the financial statements.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs and other transactions is not disclosed.
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Accounting Standards Board.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors as described in the contents section and consider whether it is London consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 19 February 2008 misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007
