58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Impact of the merger this standard in 2006 would not have had any financial On 21 June 2006 the merger with the Second Alliance Trust impact as it is only concerned with disclosure.
became effective and the Company divided its ordinary shares IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment which on the basis of ten new shares for every one previously held.
is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 November The Company issued new ordinary shares representing 25% of 2006.
The application of this interpretation in 2007 would its enlarged share capital to Second Alliance Trust not have affected the financial statements as no reversals to shareholders and the Company acquired the Second Alliance impairment losses within the scope of this interpretation Trust which represented 25% of its enlarged net assets.
The profit reported for the year to 31 January 2007 reflects IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions which is that earned by the Company from 1 February 2006 until the effective for periods commencing on or after 1 March 2007. merger and that earned by the enlarged company after the The application of this interpretation in 2007 would not merger.
The income, expenditure or profit for the have affected the financial statements.
comparative period has not been restated and therefore excludes any pre merger contribution from the Second IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements which is Alliance Trust.
Reported earnings or dividends per share for effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January the periods prior to the merger have been restated to reflect 2008.
The application of this interpretation in 2007 would the ten for one subdivision of the Companys shares.
not have affected the financial statements IFRS Not Yet Applied 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The following standards and interpretations have been adopted by the European Union but are not effective for the Basis of accounting year ended 31 January 2007 and have not been applied in Both the parent company financial statements and the preparing the financial statements: group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and the Capital Reporting Standards IFRSs, which comprise standards and disclosure amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial interpretations approved by the International Accounting statements which are applicable for periods commencing Standards Board IASB, International Accounting Standards on or after 1 January 2007.
The application of these and Standing Interpretations Committee and interpretations standards in 2007 would not have had any financial impact approved by the International Accounting Standards as they are only concerned with disclosure.
Committee IASC that remain in effect and to the extent IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 that they have been adopted by the European Union.
Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies which The financial statements have been prepared on the historical is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 March cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain fixed assets.
The application of this interpretation in 2007 would The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
not have affected the financial statements as the Group Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of does not operate in hyperinflationary economies.
Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment which is by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January effective for periods commencing on or after 1 May 2006.
2003 as revised in December 2005 is consistent with the The application of this interpretation in 2007 would not requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to have affected the financial statements as share-based prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with payment transactions in the Group are made for the receipt the recommendations of the SORP, save that whilst the Group of identifiable services.
allocates certain expenses against capital profits, it does not allocate all direct expenditure on the same basis.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 June 2006.
Basis of consolidation The application of this interpretation in 2007 would not The consolidated financial statements incorporate the have affected the financial statements.
financial statements of the Company and entities controlled The following standards and interpretations have not yet by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 January been adopted by the European Union, are not effective for each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the the year ended 31 January 2007 and have not been applied in power to govern the financial and operating policies of an preparing the financial statements: invested entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is applicable for periods are eliminated on consolidation.
commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The application of Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 59 Presentation of income statement The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet In order better to reflect the activities of an investment date while their profit and loss accounts are translated using trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the the average annual rate.
The exchange difference arising on AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income the retranslation of opening net assets and current period statement between items of a revenue and capital nature results is taken directly to reserves.
has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment Expenses company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the Directors within the income statement, all expenses have been believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance presented as revenue items except as follows: with certain requirements sets out in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of that investment.
Goodwill Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an Capitalised goodwill is the excess of the cost of the acquisition investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the of a subsidiary or business over the fair value of the Groups investment.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment.
The Directors have determined to allocate annual bonus and Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan costs which Income relate to the achievement of investment manager Dividend income from investments is recognised when performance objectives and total stockholder return the shareholders rights to receive payment have been performance objectives against capital profits and those established, normally the ex-dividend date.
that relate to the achievement of job performance Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the objectives against revenue profits.
form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of The Directors have determined to allocate two thirds of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend against capital profits with the balance being allocated foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the income against revenue profits.
Merger costs have been allocated to capital.
Special dividends are treated as repayment of capital or as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
Share based payments Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to The group operates two share based payment schemes, the the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and the Senior applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated Management Equity Incentive Plan SMEIP.
The AESOP is future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial expensed through revenue.
The grant date fair value of asset to that assets net carrying amount.
options granted to employees under the SMEIP is recognised Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in Savings and pension plan transaction charges and set-up fees equity, over the period in which the employees become are accounted for on the date on which the underlying unconditionally entitled to the options.
Annual charges are applied over the recognised as an expense may be adjusted to reflect the period to which they relate.
actual number of share options that vest.
Foreign currencies Pension costs Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are at the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the charged against revenue.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items and Contributions in respect of defined benefit provision are non-monetary assets and liabilities that are fair valued and calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the the Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a arising on retranslation are included as capital net profit or continuing basis.
loss for the period where investments are classified as fair The asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the value through profit or loss.
defined benefit plan is the fair value of the plan assets at the 60 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations balance sheet date less the present value of the Companys the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group defined benefit obligation, together with adjustments for offsets financial assets and financial liabilities if the Group has unrecognised past service costs.
a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur through equity.
Investments Taxation Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is under a contract whose terms The Company carries on its business as an investment trust require delivery within the timeframe established by the and conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes including transaction costs.
Investments are principally designated as fair value through The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently profit and loss investments, and are measured at subsequent payable and deferred tax.
reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the the last traded price, depending on the convention of the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Where securities income statement because it excludes items of income or are fair-value designated investments, gains and losses arising expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
the period as a capital item.
Foreign exchange gains and The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax losses for fair-value designated investments are included rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the within the changes in its fair value.
Investments in property are independently valued at fair value In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation and changes in fair value are recognised through the income method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented statement.
against capital returns in the supplementary information in In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for the income statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by using valuation techniques, which may include using recent expenses presented in the revenue return column of the arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the willing parties, if available, reference to the current fair value capital return column.
of another instrument that is substantially the same, Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Where there is a valuation technique commonly used by liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding market participants to price the instrument and that tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised estimated for such unquoted equity instruments, they are to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Other receivables The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be estimated irrecoverable amounts.
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Office premises Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been Office premises are shown at the valuation as at 31 May 2006 enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
carried out by chartered surveyors on the basis of market Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, value.
No depreciation has been charged on this asset as, in except when it relates to items charged or credited directly the opinion of the Board, any provision for depreciation to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in would be immaterial in relation to the revenue for the year equity.
and the assets of the Company.
The Directors consider that Financial instruments the valuation as at 31 May 2006 is still appropriate at 31 January 2007.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to
