Information on the Company continued 2.1 BHP Billiton locations We generally extract and process minerals, oil and gas in the southern hemisphere from our major production operations in Australia, Latin America and southern Africa.
Our sales are geographically diversified, but strongly concentrated in the northern hemisphere.
Sales and marketing take place through our principal hubs of The Hague and Singapore.
1 History and development Since June 2001, we have operated under a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent companies, BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and before that The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc operate as a single economic entity, run by a unified Board and management team.
More details of the DLC structure are located under section 2.10 Organisational structure of this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton Limited was incorporated in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077.
BHP Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 and is registered in England and Wales with registration number 3196209.
The registered office of BHP Billiton Limited is 180 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia, and its telephone number is 61 3 9609 3333.
The registered office of BHP Billiton Plc is Neathouse Place, London SW1V1BH, UK, and its telephone number is 44 20 7802 4000.
2 Petroleum Customer Sector Group The domestic gas phase of the North West Shelf NWS Project delivers gas via pipeline to the Western Australian domestic Our Petroleum Customer Sector Groups principal activities are oil market under long-term contracts.
LNG from the NWS Project is and gas exploration, production, development and marketing in sold under long-term contracts that expire at various periods from Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Algeria, Trinidad two to 27 years time to buyers in Japan, China and Korea that and Tobago, and Pakistan.
We also have exploration interests in expire at various periods from two to 27 years time.
The NWS LNG Malaysia, Colombia and southern Africa.
Project is currently undergoing an expansion, with Train 5 expected We previously operated on a geographic basis, with regions to be completed in late 2008.
Capacity from this train has been undertaking all aspects of exploration, development and sold under term contracts to existing buyers in Japan and Korea production.
From July 2006, we have reorganised on a functional from 2009.
Any spare capacity arising in the system from time to basis, whereby dedicated exploration, development, production time is sold to existing buyers or into short-term markets.
and marketing teams operate on a global basis with support groups enabling execution with common world-wide systems.
Americas Our operations in the Americas consist of interests in five For 2007 reporting purposes, we have grouped our assets into the producing assets in the Gulf of Mexico operations and the following regions: Australia Asia, Americas, and Europe Africa Angostura project off Trinidad and Tobago.
Our operating fields Middle East.
We produce and market crude oil and condensates, in the Gulf of Mexico are Mad Dog, West Cameron 76, Mustang, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas Genesis and Starlifter.
We also own 25 per cent and 22 per cent and ethane.
respectively in the companies that own and operate the Caesar Total production in FY2007 was 116.2 million barrels of oil oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline, which transport oil equivalent, compared with total production in FY2006 of and gas from the Green Canyon area to connecting pipelines that 117.4 million barrels of oil equivalent.
transport product to the US mainland.
Australia Asia In October 2006, the sale of our working interest in the Typhoon, Boris and Little Burn oil fields was completed following regulatory In Australia, we produce oil and gas from Bass Strait, the North approval.
West Shelf, the Griffin field and the Minerva gas field, with Bass Strait and North West Shelf being the major fields.
In Asia, On 1 February 2007, we completed the purchase of an interest in we produce gas and a small volume of condensate from the the Genghis Khan oil and gas development in the deepwater Gulf Zamzama gas field in Pakistan.
The transaction, which was announced in November 2006, closed for US$1.326 billion, with net share to BHP Billiton The majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and condensate of US$583 million.
production is dispatched from the Bass Strait fields to refineries along the east coast of Australia.
A significant proportion of the Europe Africa Middle East natural gas produced was sold to GASCOR, under a long-term Our Europe Africa Middle East producing assets include our fields Consumer Price Index CPI linked contract with periodic price off the UK coast and two operations in Algeria.
In the UK, we reviews, for on-sale to retailers to meet local residential, produce oil and gas from Liverpool Bay and Bruce Keith fields.
The GASCOR contract In Algeria, we produce wet gas from Ohanet and oil from ROD is due to expire on 31 December 2009 or upon depletion of the Integrated Development.
outstanding contractual volume, whichever is the earlier.
We have entered into similar long-term contracts with AGL and TRUenergy that will extend gas supply to these two retailers until 2017.
Other long-term contracts are also in place to supply gas to customers in New South Wales Australia and Tasmania Australia.
Information on the Company continued Information on Petroleum operations Significant oil and gas assets Production and reserves information for our most significant oil and gas assets are listed in the table below: FY2007 Net Proved Net Production Reserves Asset Location MMboe MMboe Bass Strait Offshore SE Australia 41 450 North West Shelf Offshore NW Australia 30 425 Atlantis Gulf of Mexico 109 Shenzi Genghis Khan Gulf of Mexico 20 Liverpool Bay and Bruce Keith United Kingdom 14 38 Ohanet and ROD Algeria 9 38 Detailed descriptions of our producing assets by geographical region are listed in the table below.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AUSTRALIA ASIA Bass Strait We hold a 50% interest in the The venture holds 20 production licences There are 20 producing fields with Bass Strait fields.
and two retention leases issued by the 21 offshore developments 14 steel jacket Offshore Victoria, Commonwealth of Australia with expiry platforms, three sub sea developments, Australia Esso Australia owns the other dates ranging between 2009 and 2019. two steel gravity based mono towers and 50% interest and is the operator.
Oil and gas production two concrete gravity based platforms.
Onshore infrastructure includes the Longford Facility, which includes three gas plants and liquid processing facilities, as well as the Long Island Point LPG and crude oil storage facilities.
The Bass Strait production capacity is as follows: Crude 500 Mbbl d Gas 1,075 MMcf d LPG 5,150 tonnes per day Ethane 850 tonnes per day North West Shelf We are a participant in the North The venture holds nine production licences Production from the North Rankin and NWS gas and West Shelf NWS Project, an issued by the Commonwealth of Australia, Perseus fields is currently processed through gas liquids LPG and unincorporated joint venture.
of which six expire in 2022 and three the North Rankin A platform, which has the condensate expire five years after the end of capacity to produce 2,300 MMcf d of gas The Project was developed in production.
North Rankin, Goodwyn, major phases: the domestic gas Perseus, Echo-Yodel phase, which supplies gas to the Production from the Goodwyn and and Angel fields Western Australian domestic Echo-Yodel fields is processed through the offshore, Dampier in market: and a number of LNG Goodwyn A platform, which has the northwestern Australia expansion phases, which currently capacity to produce 1,450 MMcf d of gas supply LNG primarily to Japan, and 110 Mbbl d of condensate.
Further Gas, LPG and Korea and also supply LNG to development of the existing Perseus field condensate production Guangdong in China.
has commenced and includes the drilling of and LNG liquefication additional wells tied into the Goodwyn A We hold 8.33% of the original platform.
Our share of domestic gas production An onshore gas treatment plant at Withnell will progressively increase from Bay has a current capacity to process 8.33% to 16.67% over the period 615 MMcf d of gas for the domestic market.
An existing four train LNG plant has the We also hold 16.67% of the IPG capacity to produce an average rate of domestic gas joint venture, 33,000 tonnes of LNG per day.
16.67% of the original LNG joint venture, 12.5% of the China LNG joint venture, 16.67% of the LPG joint venture and approximately 15% of current condensate production.
Other participants in the respective NWS joint ventures are subsidiaries of Woodside Energy, Chevron, BP, Shell, Mitsubishi Mitsui and the China National Offshore Oil Corporation.
Woodside Energy is the operator of the project.
18 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 19 Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AUSTRALIA ASIA continued North West Shelf We hold a 16.67% working The venture holds three production The oil is produced to a floating production crude oil interest in oil production from licences issued by the Commonwealth of storage and offloading unit, the Cossack these fields.
Australia, with expiry dates ranging Pioneer, which has a capacity of 140 Mbbl d Approximately between 2012 and 2018. and a storage capacity of 1.15 million 30 kilometres northeast The other 83.33% is held in equal barrels of crude oil.
of the North Rankin gas 16.67% shares by Woodside and condensate field, Energy, BP Developments offshore Western Australia, Chevron Australia, Shell Australia, Australia Development, and Japan Australia LNG MIMI.
Crude oil production is from the Wanaea, Woodside Energy is the operator Cossack, Lambert and of the project.
Hermes oil fields Griffin We hold a 45% interest in the The venture holds a production licence Oil and gas are produced via the Griffin project.
The other 55% is held by issued by the Commonwealth of Australia venture, a floating production, storage and Carnarvon Basin, Mobil Exploration and Producing that expires in 2014.
The licence may be offloading facility.
We pipe natural gas to 62 kilometres offshore Australia 35% and Inpex Alpha renewed on expiry for a period expiring shore, where it is delivered directly into a Western Australia, 20%.
five years after production ceases.
Australia We are the operator of the project.
The Griffin venture has an original Comprises the Griffin, production design capacity of 80 Mbbl d of Chinook and Scindian crude oil and 50 MMscf d of gas.
offshore oil and gas fields Minerva We hold a 90% share of Minerva The venture holds a production licence The Minerva development consists of two in a joint venture agreement.
issued by the Commonwealth of Australia well completions in 60 metres of water.
The licence may be A single flow line transports gas to an 10 kilometres offshore in The other 10% is held by Santos renewed on expiry for a period expiring onshore gas processing facility with an the Otway Basin of BOL Pty Ltd. five years after production ceases.
original production design capacity of Victoria, Australia We are the operator of the field.
150 TJ d and 600 bbl d of condensate.
Single offshore gas reservoir with two compartments.
Gas plant is situated approximately 4 kilometres inland from Port Campbell Zamzama We hold a 38.5% working interest Development and production lease from The Zamzama project currently consists of in the joint venture.
The other the Government of Pakistan with an five production wells and three process Dadu Block, Sindh 61.5% is owned by ENI Pakistan option to extend five years beyond the trains, with a total capacity of 350 MMcf d Province, Pakistan M Ltd 17.75%, PKP Exploration 20-year term.
Onshore gas wells Ltd a jointly-owned company However the sales agreements for gas are between Kufpec and Premier Oil only for the supply of 320 MMcf d. 18.75% and Government Holdings 25%.
AMERICAS West Cameron 76 We hold a 33.76% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The production facility consists of two interest in the joint venture.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying conventional gas platforms with a capacity Gulf of Mexico, quantities.
of 100 MMcf d of gas and 500 bbl d of 15 kilometres offshore, The other owners are Dominion condensate.
Central Louisiana, US Exploration and Production 40%, Merit Management Partners 15% Offshore gas and and Ridgewood Energy Company condensate fields 11.24%.
Dominion sold its interest to ENI in July 2007.
Genesis Green We hold a 4.95% working interest.
The venture holds a lease from the US as The production facility consists of a floating Canyon 205 long as oil and gas are produced in paying cylindrical hull spar moored to the seabed The other owners are Chevron quantities.
with integrated drilling facilities and a Gulf of Mexico, 56.67% and ExxonMobil capacity of 55 Mbbl d of oil and 72 MMcf d approximately 100 38.38%.
kilometres offshore of Chevron is the operator.
New Orleans, Louisiana, US Deepwater oil and gas field Starlifter West We hold a 30.95% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The field development consists of a single Cameron 77 interest in the joint venture.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying conventional gas platform with a capacity quantities.
of 30 MMcf d of gas and 300 bbl d of Gulf of Mexico, The other owners are Newfield condensate.
15 kilometres offshore, Exploration 45%, Merit Central Louisiana, US Management Partners 13.75% and Ridgewood Energy Company Offshore gas and 10.3%.
condensate field Newfield Exploration is the operator.
Information on the Company continued Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AMERICAS continued Mustang West We hold a 43.66% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The field development consists of a single Cameron 77 interest in the joint venture.
of 40 MMcf d of gas and 600 bbl d of Gulf of Mexico, The other owners are Dominion condensate.
15 kilometres offshore, Exploration and Production Central Louisiana, US 22.4%, Merit Management Partners 19.4% and Ridgewood Offshore gas and Energy Company 14.54%.
condensate field Dominion sold its interest to ENI in July 2007.
Mad Dog Green We hold a 23.9% working interest The venture holds a lease from the US as The field development consists of an Canyon 782 in Mad Dog.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying integrated truss spar equipped with quantities.
facilities for simultaneous production and Gulf of Mexico, The other 76.1% is held by BP drilling operations, permanently moored approximately 60.5% and Chevron 15.6%.
320 kilometres offshore BP is the operator.
of New Orleans, The facility has the capacity to process Louisiana, US 100 Mbbl d of oil and 60 MMcf d of gas.
Deepwater oil and gas field Greater Angostura We hold a 45% working interest The venture has entered into a production The Angostura development is an in the joint venture.
sharing contract with the Republic of integrated oil and gas development.
The Approximately 40 Trinidad and Tobago that entitles the infrastructure consists of a steel jacketed kilometres off the east The other 55% is held by Total contractor to operate Angostura until central processing platform with three coast of Trinidad 30% and Talisman Energy 25%.
2021. satellite wellhead protector platforms and Shallow water oil and We are the operator.
A pipeline connects the gas field processing platform to newly constructed storage facilities at Guayaguayare, where an export pipeline has been installed to allow for offloading to tankers in Guayaguayare Bay.
The facility has the capacity to process 100 Mbbl d of oil.
EUROPE AFRICA MIDDLE EAST Liverpool Bay We hold a 46.1% working interest The joint venture holds three production The Liverpool Bay asset is an integrated in the joint venture.
The other licences issued by the Crown of the United development of six fields.
Douglas and Douglas 53.9% is held by Eni.
One of these licences was West oil fields, Hamilton, Oil from the Lennox and Douglas fields is extended in July 2007 for a further term Hamilton North and We are the operator.
treated at the Douglas complex and piped which expires in 2025.
The other licences Hamilton East gas fields, 17 kilometres to an oil storage barge for expire in 2009 and 2016. and Lennox oil and gas export by tankers.
fields in the Irish Sea, Gas from the Hamilton, Hamilton North, approximately 10 Hamilton East and Lennox fields is initially kilometres off the processed at the Douglas complex then northwest coast of piped by subsea pipeline to the Point of England Ayr gas terminal for further processing.
The facility has the capacity to produce 308 MMcf d of gas and 70 Mbbl d of oil and condensate.
Bruce Keith We hold a 16% interest in the The joint venture holds three production Production is via an integrated oil and Bruce field.
The other 84% is licences issued by the Crown of the United gas platform.
North Sea, approximately owned by BP 37%, Total Kingdom, which expire in 2011, 2015 the 380 kilometres northeast The throughput of the Bruce facility has, 43.25% and Marubeni 3.75%.
and 2018. offshore of Aberdeen, since 2002, been increased to 920 MMcf d Scotland BP is the operator of Bruce.
through fide-bottlenecking and revising operating envelopes.
The Keith field is located We hold a 31.83% interest in the adjacent to the Bruce Keith field.
The other 68.17% is The Keith field was developed as a tie-back field owned by BP 34.84%, Total to the Bruce platform facilities 25% and Marubeni 8.33%.
Offshore oil and gas fields We are the operator of Keith.
Ohanet We have an effective 45% working The venture is party to a risk service Ohanet is a wet gas LPG and condensate interest in the Ohanet joint contract with the title holder Sonatrach development consisting of four gas and Approximately 1,300 venture.
The other 55% is held by that expires in 2011, with an option for a condensate reservoirs and a gas processing kilometres southeast of Japan Ohanet Oil and Gas 30%, renewal of up to four years under certain plant with the capacity to treat 20 MMcf d Algiers, Algeria Woodside Energy Algeria 15% conditions.
of wet gas and 61 Mbbl d of associated Four wet gas fields and Petrofac Resources Ohanet liquids LPG and condensate.
Under this contract, the Ohanet joint 10%.
venture is reimbursed and remunerated The project is operated by a for its investments in liquids.
Sonatrach BHP Billiton jointly staffed organisation.
20 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 21 Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities EUROPE AFRICA MIDDLE EAST continued ROD Integrated We hold a 45% interest in the The venture is party to a production Comprises the development and production Development 401a 402a production sharing sharing contract with the title holder of six oil fields, the largest two of which, contract, with ENI holding the Sonatrach that expires in 2016, with ROD and SFNE, extend into the Berkine Basin, 900 remaining 55%.
an option for a five-year renewal under neighbouring blocks 403a and 403d.
of Algiers, Algeria However, we have an effective The ROD Integrated Development is being 38% interest in ROD unitised produced through a new dedicated Six oil fields integrated development.
ENI owns processing train, with the capacity to the remaining 62%.
This interest is process approximately 80 Mbbl d of oil.
subject to a contractual determination to ensure that interest from participating association leases is accurately reflected.
Future redetermination may be possible under certain conditions.
A joint Sonatrach ENI entity is the operator.
Development projects Pyrenees WA-12-R WA-155-P Australia Asia In July 2007, our Board approved the Pyrennes project to develop the WA-12-R permit portion of the Crosby, Stickle Stybarrow and Ravensworth oil fields in the Exmouth Sub-basin, off the In November 2005, our Board approved the development of the northwest coast of Western Australia.
Project costs for the Stybarrow oil field in the Exmouth Sub-basin, off the northwest Pyrenees development are approximately US$1.7 billion coast of Western Australia.
At a water depth of approximately approximately US$1.2 billion our share.
The development consists 825 metres, Stybarrow will be Australias deepest oil field of subsea production and injection wells tied back to a floating development.
The Stybarrow project consists of a development production storage and offloading FPSO facility with an oil and a floating production, storage and offshore loading facility, processing capacity of 96,000 barrels per day.
First production which will be used to process, store and offload oil to export is expected during the second half of FY2010.
The vessel will be disconnectable, double-hulled and able We own a 71.43 per cent operated working interest in the to process approximately 80,000 barrels of liquids a day.
We own a WA-12-R permit, with Apache Energy Ltd owning the remaining 50 per cent operated working interest in this permit, with the 28.57 per cent.
remaining interest held by Woodside Energy.
Due to cost pressures, project costs were revised to approximately US$760 million The Ravensworth field straddles the WA-12-R and WA-155-P US$380 million FY2006: US$300 million our share, whilst first permits.
We own a 40 per cent operated working interest in the production is still expected during or ahead of third quarter WA-155-P permit, with Apache Energy Ltd owning 31.5 per cent FY2008.
and Inpex owning 28.5 per cent.
North West Shelf Train 5 expansion Zamzama Phase 2 The expansion of the existing LNG processing facilities located on Phase 2 of the Zamzama gas field development is currently under the Burrup Peninsula continues with the construction of the fifth construction after being sanctioned in November 2005.
In June 2005, our Board approved our 16.67 per cent is expected to increase by approximately 150 MMcf d of gas share of investment in a fifth LNG train expansion of the existing and 800 bbl d of condensate in September 2007 at a cost of LNG processing facilities located on the Burrup Peninsula, which US$120 million US$46 million our share.
We signed a gas sales will increase total LNG production capacity to 43,500 tonnes per and purchase agreement in November 2005 with the Government day.
The project is currently progressing behind schedule due to of Pakistan and Sui Southern Gas Company Limited.
the shortage of labour caused by accommodation constraints in Karratha.
Measures to provide relief on this constraint took effect Americas in third quarter FY2007.
Our share of development costs, based Atlantis South on the operators Woodside Energy estimate, was revised to We have a 44 per cent working interest in Atlantis South in the approximately US$300 million FY2006: US$250 million, with deepwater fields in the Gulf of Mexico.
The facility will be a first production expected by late second quarter FY2008.
moored, semi-submersible platform with a capacity of 200 Mbbl d of oil and 180 MMcf d of gas.
The expected cost has increased to North West Shelf Angel development US$1.63 billion FY2006: US$1.1 billion our share for the Development of the Angel gas and condensate field, approved installation of the infrastructure and associated wells required in December 2005 is currently underway.
The development will to achieve plateau production from this facility.
First oil is expected include the installation of the ventures third major offshore by the first half of FY2008.
BP owns the other 56 per cent and production platform, which will have a capacity to produce operates the project.
800 MMcf d of gas from the North West Shelf and associated infrastructure, including a new subsea 50 kilometre pipeline, which Neptune will be tied in to the first trunk line at the North Rankin platform.
We have a 35 per cent interest and will operate the Neptune oil Our 16.67 per cent share of development costs, based on the and gas project in the deepwater fields in the Gulf of Mexico.
operators Woodside Energy estimate, is approximately US$200 Other members of the joint venture are Marathon Oil 30 per cent, million.
The project is currently on schedule and budget with first Woodside 20 per cent and Repsol 15 per cent.
The project will production scheduled for the end of second quarter FY2009.
construct a stand-alone tension-leg platform with a nameplate capacity of 50 Mbbl d and 50 MMcf d of gas.
The expected cost has increased to US$405 million FY2006: US$300 million our share.
First oil is expected by the end of the first half of FY2008.
Information on the Company continued Development projects continued Malaysia Shenzi Genghis Khan In March 2007, we were awarded two offshore blocks in Malaysia.
We are the operator of the blocks under two separate Production We have a 44 per cent interest, and will operate the Shenzi oil Sharing Contracts.
The minimum exploration program includes and gas project in the deepwater fields of Gulf of Mexico.
the acquisition and processing of seismic data for approximately Other owners of the project are Repsol 28 per cent and Hess 2,300 square kilometres across the 2 blocks, and the drilling Corporation 28 per cent.
The project is constructing a standof 4 exploration wells within the first 7 years of the contracts.
alone tension-leg platform TLP with a design capacity of 100 Mbbl d and 50 MMcf d of gas.
First oil for the Shenzi Americas Gulf of Mexico development through the TLP is expected by the end of FY2009.
Puma Green Canyon Western Atwater Foldbelt exploration On 1 February 2007, we completed the purchase of the Genghis The Puma-1 exploration well was drilled in January 2004.
The well Khan oil and gas development in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
was drilled in 4,130 feet of water and encountered hydrocarbons The transaction, which was first announced in November 2006, in both the original hole and in two subsequent sidetrack bores.
closed for US$1.326 billion, with our net share of US$583 million.
The first appraisal well was re-entered in January 2007 but did The field is part of the same geological structure as the Shenzi not encounter any commercial reserves and has been temporarily project.
We are the operator of Genghis Khan and hold a abandoned.
A second appraisal well was drilled with additional 44 per cent interest.
Co-venturers are Hess Corporation and Repsol wells planned in FY2008 to further evaluate the results of the YPF, each with 28 per cent.
The Genghis Khan development prospect.
consists of a 12,600 feet tieback to the existing Marco Polo TLP which is owned in a 50-50 per cent joint venture by Enterprise Following an interim equity agreement, we hold a 29.805 per cent and Helix, and is operated by Anadarko.
First oil through working interest in Puma.
The other 70.195 per cent is held by Marco Polo is expected in the first half of FY2008.
Gross costs BP 46.195 per cent, Chevron 21.75 per cent and Statoil for the Shenzi Genghis Khan field development net of acquisition 2.25 per cent, subject to future redetermination.
costs is US$4.9 billion US$2.2 billion our share.
Knotty Head Green Canyon Wester Atwater Foldbelt exploration Other developments We currently own a 25 per cent working interest in an exploration Cabrillo Port well on the Knotty Head Prospect, located in the Green Canyon area.
Partners in the well are Nexen 25 per cent owner and During the year, we continued to seek the Federal and State operator, Anadarko 25 per cent and Unocal a wholly-owned permits needed to construct and operate Cabrillo Port, a floating subsidiary of Chevron 25 per cent.
Unocal spudded the storage and regasification unit FSRU, located in the Pacific Ocean exploration well in March 2005.
The initial well was completed in approximately 22 kilometres offshore from Ventura County, mid December 2005 followed by a sidetrack operation that was California.
completed in early March 2006 to further evaluate the results of On 18th May 2007, the Governor of California vetoed the projects the discovery well.
The well was drilled in 3,570 feet of water to a application for a federal deepwater port licence.
Work on this total depth of 34,189 feet and encountered hydrocarbons in both project has now ceased.
the original hole and the subsequent sidetrack.
Additional appraisal work will be required to further evaluate the economic Exploration and appraisal potential of the prospect.
We are focused on finding significant discoveries through wildcat drilling.
We have exploration interests throughout the world, Cascade Chinook Walker Ridge exploration particularly the Gulf of Mexico, Western Australia and Malaysia.
On 9 August 2006, Petrobras and Devon purchased our 50 per cent During the year, our gross expenditure on exploration was working interest in the Cascade blocks.
Petrobras and Total E&P US$395 million.
Our major exploration interests are as follows: USA, Inc acquired our 40 per cent working interest in Chinook.
We received cash and a right to future contingent consideration, Australia Asia as well as maintaining an overriding interest in these blocks.
Scarborough Americas Colombia We have a 50 per cent non-operated interest in the Scarborough gas field in WA-1-R ExxonMobil holds the remaining 50 per cent In June 2007, we signed a Joint Operating Agreement with and is the operator which covers the northern extension of the Ecopetrol for the Fuerte Norte and Fuerte Sur blocks, located mapped gas reservoir.
The project is still examining a number of offshore in Colombia.
We hold 75 per cent operated interest in concepts for field development.
each block with Ecopetrol holding the remaining 25 per cent.
Thebe Europe Africa Middle East The Thebe-1 exploration well was recently drilled offshore Western Namibia Australia.
The well and subsequent evaluation confirmed a gas We hold interests in two blocks located offshore in Namibia, column of approximately 240 feet 73 metres encountered in the which we acquired in 2005.
These are known as the Northern Exmouth Plateau of the Carnarvon Basin.
In November 2006, we farmed out 25 per cent The well was drilled in July 2007 and is located approximately of its interest in these two blocks.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd. acquired 300 kilometres off the northwest coast of Western Australia in 15 per cent and the Petroleum Oil and Gas Corporation of water depths of 3,848 feet 1,173 metres and approximately South Africa Pty Ltd acquired 10 per cent with an option to 50 kilometres north of the Scarborough gas field.
The well has now consider additional equity.
We remain the operator and hold been abandoned after reservoir core was collected.
BHP Billiton the remaining 75 per cent interest.
is the operator at Thebe-1 and holds a 100 per cent interest in the field.
Browse The Browse basin is comprised of the Torosa, Brecknock and Calliance fields and is operated by Woodside Petroleum.
It is divided into two joint ventures: East Browse and West Browse.
We have an 8.33 per cent non-operated interest in East Browse and a 20 per cent non-operated interest in West Browse.
An appraisal program is in progress and concurrently the operator is conducting concept selection studies.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group Through operations in Australia, Brazil, Mozambique, South Africa The Aluminium CSGs operations comprise the following: and Suriname, our Aluminium CSG mines bauxite, refines bauxite The fully owned and operated Hillside and Bayside aluminium into alumina and smelts alumina into aluminium metal.
The smelters, located at Richards Bay, South Africa.
principal raw materials required for aluminium production are A 47.1 per cent interest and operator of the Mozal aluminium smelter in Mozambique.
alumina, electricity, liquid pitch and petroleum coke.
Alumina An 86 per cent interest of the Worsley joint venture, consisting production requires bauxite, caustic soda and electricity.
Most of of the Boddington bauxite mine and the Worsley alumina the alumina we use to produce aluminium metal is sourced from refinery, both located in Western Australia.
We buy caustic soda, liquid pitch and A 45 per cent interest and operator of the Suriname Mining petroleum coke from a number of producers around the world.
joint venture operating the Kaaimangrasie, Klaverblad and We sell part of our bauxite and alumina production to other Coermotibo mines in Suriname and a 45 per cent interest in the refiners and smelters, and sell aluminium in the following forms: refining joint venture, comprising an alumina refinery and port primary aluminium, foundry alloy, extrusion billet, rolling slab facilities at Paranam in Suriname.
The Lelydorp III mine ceased and wire rod.
Interests in the Alumar Consortium and Minerao Rio do Norte We are the worlds sixth largest producer of primary aluminium, SA MRN.
The Alumar Consortium operates an integrated with a total production capacity of approximately 1.3 mtpa of alumina refinery and aluminium smelter in So Lus, Brazil.
We also have a total operating capacity of Our share in the Alumar refinery is 36 per cent and in the approximately 15.6 mtpa of bauxite and 4.5 mtpa of alumina.
Alumar smelter is 40 per cent.
The Alumar Consortium purchases We sell aluminium metal to customers around the world, generally bauxite under long-term contracts from MRN, an operation at prices linked to the London Metal Exchange LME price.
of three open-cut mines in northern Brazil in which we own Our alumina and bauxite sales are governed by a mixture of 14.8 per cent.
In August 2006, we completed the sale of our 45.5 per cent interest in the Valesul Aluminio SA joint venture to our joint venture partner, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce CVRD for US$27.5 million.
Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations Detailed descriptions of our assets are listed in the table below.
Name, location and Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Boddington bauxite We own 86% of the Worsley joint The Boddington bauxite mine opened The mine has a crushing plant with the mine venture.
The other 14% interest is in 1983 and was significantly extended capacity of 13 dry mtpa of bauxite.
Power is owned by Sojitz Alumina Pty Ltd in 2000. supplied from the Worsley alumina refinery 123 kilometres southeast 4%, and Japan Alumina site via a joint venture-owned powerline.
of Perth at Boddington, Associates Australia Pty Ltd Western Australia, A description of the Worsley alumina 10%.
Australia refinery can be found below.
Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd is the Open-cut mine manager of the joint venture on The mine is accessible by behalf of the participants.
The Alumina Pty Ltd has the same ore is transported to ownership structure as the Worsley alumina refinery Worsley joint venture.
via a 51-kilometre We hold a 2,654 square kilometre overland conveyor.
mining lease from the Western Australian government and two sub leases totalling 855 square kilometres from Alcoa of Australia Limited.
In 2004, we renewed the lease for a second 21-year term.
Suriname Lelydorp III Prior to closure of the mine in The Lelydorp III mine started operations in Lelydorp III mine had a nominal production mine Onverdacht February 2007, we owned 45% 1997.
The mine closed down operations in capacity of 2 mtpa: there are no of the refining and mining joint February 2007. beneficiation or processing facilities.
We managed all mining of Paramaribo and operations.
15 kilometres west of the Paranam refinery, Suralco held exploitation licences, Suriname issued by the Government of Suriname, which would have Open-cut mine expired in 2032.
Suriname We own 45% of the refining and The development of the Kaaimangrasie Kaaimangrasie mine has a nominal Kaaimangrasie mine mining joint venture.
The other mine started in November 2005. production capacity of approximately Onverdacht 55% interest is held by Suralco Operations delivery of bauxite to the 2 mtpa of bauxite: there are no processing a subsidiary of Alcoa World refinery commenced in July 2006.
The facilities at the mine.
38 kilometres southeast Alumina and Chemicals AWAC, mine is scheduled to be operated until of Paramaribo and Electricity is sourced from Suralco and fuel a venture of Alcoa and Alumina November 2009.
24 kilometres east of the sourced from an external provider.
Paranam refinery, Suriname We manage all mining operations.
Open-cut mine Suralco holds the exploitation licences, issued by the The mine is accessible by Government of Suriname, over the a joint venture-owned Kaaimangrasie deposit.
The ore is licences expire in 2032. hauled by truck over a distance of 28 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
Information on the Company continued Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations continued Name, location and Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Suriname Klaverblad We own 45% of the refining and The development of the Klaverblad mine Klaverblad mine has a nominal production mine Onverdacht mining joint venture.
The other started in July 2005.
Operations delivery capacity of approximately 2 mtpa of 55% interest is held by Suralco.
of bauxite to the refinery commenced in bauxite: there are no processing facilities 23 kilometres southeast April 2007.
The mine is scheduled to be at the mine.
of Paramaribo and We manage all mining operations.
11 kilometres east of the Electricity is sourced from Suralco and fuel Suralco holds the exploitation Paranam refinery, sourced from an external provider.
licences, issued by the Suriname Government of Suriname, over the Open-cut mine Klaverblad deposit.
The mine is accessible by a joint venture-owned haul road.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 17 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
Suriname Coermotibo We own 45% of the Coermotibo The Coermotibo mine started operations Coermotibo mine has a nominal production joint venture.
Based on reserves the mine will capacity of 1.7 mtpa.
There are primary 150 kilometres east of interest is held by Suralco.
Remnants mining crushing and barge loading facilities, Paranam, Suriname will continue after that time until but no beneficiation or other processing We manage all mining operations.
Surface strip mine July 2011. facilities.
Suralco holds exploitation licences The mine is accessible by Coermotibo generates its own electricity over the bauxite, issued by the joint venture-owned haul from power generators that run on Government of Suriname.
The ore is hauled to the Coermotibo crushing and loading facility and subsequently barged along the Commewijne River to the Paranam refinery.
MRN We own 14.8% of Minerao Rio Production started in 1979 and the last MRN beneficiation facilities consist of do Norte SA MRN.
The other expansion occurred in 2003. a crushing unit and a washing unit and Oriximina, State of Par, 85.2% is owned by affiliates of a conveyer belt that transports the ore Brazil Alcoa 18.2%, Alcan 12%, between the two units.
The bauxite Open-cut mine Companhia Brasileira fide Alumnio nominal production capacity is The mine is accessible by CBA 10%, CVRD 40% and approximately 17 mtpa.
joint venture-owned haul Norsk Hydro 5%.
MRN has its own power generation station roads.
A joint ventureMRN holds valid mining rights using fuel oil.
owned railroad connects granted by the Brazilian Federal the 28 kilometres Government to all its reserves until between the plant and exhaustion of the reserves.
Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries Ownership, operation Operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity Hillside aluminium We own and operate the smelter.
The Hillside smelter uses the Aluminium The nominal production capacity of the smelter Pechiney AP35 technology to produce smelter is 0.704 mtpa of primary We hold freehold title over the standard aluminium ingots and aluminium aluminium.
Richards Bay, property, plant and equipment.
200 kilometres north of The plants power requirements are sourced The harbour silos, buildings and Durban, KwaZulu-Natal from the national power supplier Eskom, overhead conveyors are owned by province, South Africa under long-term contracts.
The prices in Hillside, but Bayside is the the contract for Hillside 1 and 2 are linked principal lessee of the land for the to the LME price for aluminium, while the export stockyard, liquid pitch prices for Hillside 3 are linked to the SA terminal and the silo site, which and US PPI.
are used by Hillside and Bayside.
Bayside aluminium We own and operate the smelter.
The Bayside smelter uses Alusuisse The nominal potline production capacity is smelter pre-bake and Soderberg self-bake 0.169 mtpa of primary aluminium.
We hold freehold title over the technologies to produce primary Richards Bay, 200 property, plant and equipment.
The plants power requirements are sourced aluminium.
Bayside uses its own kilometres north of from the national power supplier Eskom, The harbour silos, buildings and aluminium and liquid aluminium acquired Durban, KwaZulu-Natal under a long-term contract with prices overhead conveyors are owned by from Hillside to also produce a range of province, South Africa linked to the LME price for aluminium.
Hillside, but Bayside is the value added products, such as wheel rim principal lessee of the land for the alloy, rod and rolling ingot.
export stockyard, liquid pitch terminal and the silo site, which are used by Hillside and Bayside.
Mozal aluminium We hold a 47.1% interest in the The Mozal aluminium smelter uses the The nominal production capacity of the smelter Mozal joint venture and operate Aluminium Pechiney AP35 technology to smelter is 0.563 mtpa.
The other 52.9% is produce standard aluminium ingots.
17 kilometres from The plants power requirements are owned by Mitsubishi 25%, Maputo, Mozambique purchased from Motraco, under an Industrial Development agreement that provides for a fixed tariff Corporation of South Africa Limited for the majority of electricity through to 24%, and the Government of 2012 and LME-linked pricing thereafter.
The joint venture has a 50-year right to use the land, renewable for another 50 years under a government concession.
24 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 25 Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries continued Ownership, operation Operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity Worsley alumina We own 86% of this asset through The Worsley alumina refinery uses the The nominal production capacity is refinery the Worsley joint venture.
The Bayer process to produce metallurgical 3.5 mtpa.
other 14% is owned by Sojitz grade alumina, which is used as feedstock Approximately Power and steam needed for the refinery Alumina Pty Ltd 4%, and Japan for aluminium smelting.
55 kilometres northeast of are provided by a joint venture-owned onAlumina Associates Australia Pty Bunbury, Western site coal power station and a non-joint Ltd 10%.
Australia, Australia venture-owned on-site gas fired steam Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd is the power generation plant.
manager of the joint venture on behalf of the participants.
Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd has the same ownership structure as the Worsley joint venture.
We hold a 2,480-hectare refinery lease from the Western Australian Government.
Paranam refinery We own 45% of the Paranam joint The Paranam alumina refinery utilises the Capacity is 2.2 mtpa.
The other 55% of the Bayer process to produce metallurgical generates its own power.
Paranam, Suriname joint venture is owned by Suralco.
grade alumina, which is used as feedstock for aluminium smelting.
Suralco manages the alumina refinery.
The joint venture holds freehold title to the property, plant and equipment, in a 4555% split between the two joint venture partners.
Alumar The Alumar Consortium is an The alumina refinery and aluminium The refinery complex was last expanded in unincorporated joint venture that smelter use Alcoa technology to produce June 2005, achieving annual capacity of So Lus, Maranho, Brazil holds the smelter, refinery, ingot alumina and aluminium ingots.
The smelter has a nominal annual capacity We own 40% of the aluminium of approximately 0.45 mtpa of primary smelter.
The other 60% is owned aluminium.
by Alcoa Aluminio SA Alcoa.
The electricity requirements are supplied We own 36% of the alumina by Brazilian public power generation refinery.
The other 64% is owned concessionaire Electronorte, pursuant by Alcoa and its affiliate Abalco SA to a 20-year contract.
The consortium comprises an integrated port, an alumina refinery and an aluminium smelter together with areas for the production of anodes and aluminium ingots.
All the above are freehold interests of the joint venture participants.
Development projects 3 mtpa our share bauxite mine and associated infrastructure.
The Guinea Alumina Project is a joint venture between BHP Billiton Worsley 33.3 per cent, Global Alumina 33.3 per cent, Dubai Aluminium The Worsley Alumina Development Capital Project DCP, Company Limited 25 per cent and Mubadala Development which commenced in 2004, was completed in 2007 at a cost of Company 8.3 per cent.
We will appoint the Chief Executive US$235 million US$188 million our share, resulting in a 0.25 mtpa Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the joint venture company.
increase in alumina production 0.215 mtpa our share to 3.5 mtpa.
We will provide a range of services to the joint venture under a formal services agreement, including assistance with the The Efficiency and Growth Project at Worsley Alumina to lift production by 1.1 mtpa 0.946 mtpa our share to 4.6 mtpa is development, construction and management of the project, which will be operated in accordance with our policies, procedures currently in definition phase.
A preliminary estimate of total capital cost is Alumar approximately US$3 billion US$1 billion our share, with first production in 2010.
The feasibility study, which is currently under In December 2005, we approved a project to expand the refinery, way, will refine this estimate over the course of FY2008.
which will increase annual alumina production capacity by 2.0 mtpa 0.7 mtpa our share to 3.5 mtpa 1.3 mtpa our share.
Exploration We have estimated that our share of this investment will total In Suriname, BHP Billiton and Suralco jointly hold the exploration US$725 million.
During the year, budgeted project costs have increased by approximately 40 per cent from US$518 million due licence over the Bakhuis region in western Suriname.
The rights over this 2,780 square kilometre terrain were granted in November to rises in construction, electrical, instrumentation, labour and general overhead costs.
2003 for a period of 25 months, with options for extension.
The exploration phase was finalised in November 2005, and Guinea Alumina Project BHP Billiton and Suralco are currently entering the negotiations with the Government of Suriname in order to obtain the In April 2007, we announced the acquisition of a 33.3 per cent interest in the Guinea Alumina Project in Guinea, West Africa.
exploitation rights for the Bakhuis area.
In the interim, the feasibility study of the future Bakhuis mine is in full progress.
The project comprises the design construction and operation of a 3 mtpa 1 mtpa our share alumina refinery and a 9 mtpa BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 25 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 26 2.
Information on the Company continued 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group Through operations in Chile, Australia and Peru, our Base Metals In December 2006, the Spence open-cut copper mine, produced its CSG mines copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and first copper cathode.
Production is currently in ramp up mode, with gold.
We have five primary products: a nominal annual capacity of 200,000 tonnes of copper cathode.
copper concentrates The project was completed within the budget of US$990 million, copper cathodes excluding foreign exchange impacts of the stronger Chilean peso.
uranium oxide Including foreign exchange impacts, the project cost was lead concentrates US$1.1 billion.
Copper zinc Some of the ores we mine contain significant quantities of silver Our Antamina mine located in the Ancash province in Peru and gold, which remain in the base metal concentrates we sell.
produces four types of mineral concentrates: copper, zinc, We receive payment credits for silver and gold recovered by our molybdenum and lead bismuth.
Copper and zinc concentrates, customers in the smelting and refining process.
In addition, we which represent the majority of Antaminas revenues, are produce gold and silver bullion at our Olympic Dam smelting and mainly sold to third party smelters.
The remainder of our refining operation.
production is sold to third party roasters and merchants.
Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes the Copper uranium Escondida mine in Chile, which is the worlds largest producer of copper, and Olympic Dam in Australia, a world-class uranium Our Olympic Dam copper and uranium mine in South Australia copper deposit.
We are also developing a number of copper is our only asset producing uranium oxide.
The bulk of uranium mining projects.
In addition to conventional mine development, production is sold under long-term, fixed price sales contracts with we are also pursuing advanced bio-leaching technology, which overseas electricity generating utilities.
Gold and silver produced we believe has the potential to achieve significant reductions are sold to the Perth Mint, Australia.
We acquired Olympic Dam as in the cost of producing base metals.
part of our acquisition of WMC in June 2005.
Copper Silver, lead and zinc Our majority-owned Escondida copper mine in northern Chile Cannington is the worlds largest single mine producer of both has separate processing streams producing high-quality copper silver and lead and a significant producer of zinc.
concentrate and pure copper cathode.
Our other key copper assets All of Canningtons lead and zinc concentrate production for are the Cerro Colorado and Spence copper mines in northern Chile, FY2007 was committed under frame contracts with smelters in the Antamina copper and zinc operations in Peru, and the Olympic Australia, Korea, Japan and Europe at prices linked to the relevant Dam copper and uranium mine in Australia.
The price is determined by the prevailing LME market In FY2007, our share of total production was 1.25 mtpa of payable price for concentrate, generally three months after shipment.
copper in cathode and concentrate.
We provide base metals Following an assessment of ground conditions in May 2006, we concentrates to smelters and copper cathode to rod and brass mills accelerated the program of decline and stope access rehabilitation and casting plants around the world.
We sell the majority of our to improve safety conditions.
This program was completed in copper cathode production on annual contracts with a fixed January 2007 at a cost of approximately US$30 million.
Mine premium and the majority of our copper concentrate production production rates have returned to expected levels.
to smelters under long-term contracts, with treatment and refining charges negotiated mainly on an annual or bi-annual basis.
The price of contained copper is determined by the prevailing LME market price generally for cathodes in the month after shipment and for concentrate three months after shipment.
The remainder is sold on a spot basis.
Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the tables below.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER Escondida The mine is owned and operated Original construction of the operation was Escondida has two processing streams: two by Minera Escondida Limitada.
The project has since concentrator plants in which high-quality Atacama Desert, at an undergone four phases of expansion at an copper concentrate is extracted from altitude of approximately We own 57.5% of Minera additional cost of US$2,125 million 100% sulphide ore through a flotation extraction 3,100 metres and Escondida.
The other 42.5% is terms plus US$451 million 100% terms process: and two solvent extraction plants 170 kilometres southeast owned by affiliates of Rio Tinto for the construction of an oxide plant.
in which leaching, solvent extraction and of Antofagasta, Chile 30%, the JECO Corporation electrowinning are used to produce copper 10%, a consortium represented In October 2005, the Escondida Norte Two open-cut pits cathode.
by Mitsubishi Corporation 7%, expansion was completed at a cost of The mine is accessible by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation US$431 million 100% terms.
Nominal production capacity is 3.2 mtpa of public road.
1%, Nippon Mining and Metals copper concentrate and 330,000 tonnes per In June 2006, the Escondida Sulphide Copper cathode is 2% and the International Finance annum of copper cathode.
Leach copper project achieved first transported by privatelyCorporation 2.5%.
The cost of the project was Separate transmission circuits provide owned rail line to the Minera Escondida Limitada holds US$907 million 100% terms, compared power for the Escondida mine facilities.
Antofagasta port a mining concession from the to a budget of US$870 million, excluding These transmission lines, which are government-operated or Chilean state that remains valid the exchange impact of a stronger Chilean connected to Chiles northern power grid, Mejillones port privately indefinitely subject to payment peso.
The final cost was US$986 million are Company-owned and are sufficient to operated.
including the impact of foreign exchange.
supply Escondida post Phase IV.
Electricity Copper concentrate is is purchased under contracts with local transported by Companygenerating companies.
owned pipeline to its Coloso port facilities.
26 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 27 Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER continued Spence We own and operate the mine Spence received Board approval for Spence has operations facilities to support 100%.
The project the open-cut mining operations and ore Atacama Desert, was completed within the US$990 million processing crushing operations.
We hold a mining concession from 150 kilometres northeast budget, excluding foreign exchange the Chilean state that remains The crushed oxide and sulphide ores are of Antofagasta, Chile impacts of a stronger Chilean peso.
The valid indefinitely subject to leached on separate dynamic on-off leach Open-cut mine cost including the impact of foreign payment of annual fees.
Chemical acid leaching is applied to The mine is accessible by exchange was US$1.1 billion.
oxide ores and bio-leaching is applied to public road and privatelyMine pre-stripping commenced in June supergene sulphide ores similar to owned rail access.
2005 and finished in August 2006 in technologies employed by Escondida and Copper cathode produced accordance with the Mine Plan.
Solvent extraction consists is transported by rail line of four trains in a series-parallel First ore was crushed in September 2006 to either Antofagasta configuration, with extraction stages for with first copper produced in December government operated or both oxide and sulphide Pregnant Leach 2006.
plant produces the copper cathode.
We have an additional run of mine ROM heap leach to further recover copper from low-grade ores.
Nominal capacity is 200,000 tonnes of copper cathode.
Electrical power is supplied to the operation via a 70-kilometre high-voltage transmission line connected to Chiles northern power grid.
This transmission line is Company-owned, and electricity is purchased under contracts from a local generating company.
Cerro Colorado We own and operate the mine.
Commercial production at Cerro Colorado Cerro Colorados facilities for this process commenced in June 1994. include two primary, secondary and tertiary Atacama Desert at an We hold a mining concession from crushers, leaching pads and solvent altitude of 2,600 metres, the Chilean state that remains Expansions took place in 1995 and 1998 extraction and electrowinning plants.
approximately 125 valid indefinitely subject to to increase the mines crushing capacity, Current capacity is 120,000 tonnes per kilometres east of payment of annual fees.
leach pad area and mine fleet.
Iquique, Chile expansions, production was increased to 100,000 tonnes per annum.
Production Electricity is supplied under long-term Open-cut copper mine was then increased to the nameplate contracts to the facilities through the The mine is accessible by capacity of 120,000 tonnes per annum northern Chile power grid.
with optimisation and efficiency Cathode production is improvements.
trucked to port at Iquique, which is privately operated.
COPPER URANIUM Olympic Dam We own and operate Olympic Production of copper began in 1988.
The underground mine extracts copper Dam.
Between 1989 and 1995, the production uranium ore and hauls the ore by an 560 kilometres northwest rate was increased, ultimately raising automated train network feeding of Adelaide, South The mining lease was granted by the ore mining capacity to approximately underground crushing, storage and ore Australia, Australia the Government of South Australia 3 mtpa.
by an Act of Parliament for the Underground mine period of 50 years from 1982, with During 2002, Olympic Dam completed an The processing plant consists of two The mine is accessible by a right of extension for a further optimisation project.
A new copper grinding circuits in parallel and a multipublic road.
solvent extraction plant was stage copper sulphide flotation circuit.
cathode and electrowon commissioned in the first quarter of 2004.
The copper concentrates treatment route copper is transported by consists of an acid leach and filtration We acquired Olympic Dam as part of our public road to public plant, a drying plant, an Outokumpu flash acquisition of WMC in 2005. ports.
furnace with two anode casting furnaces, an ISA electro-refinery and a refinery to recover gold and silver.
The flotation tailings treatment route consists of an acid leach and counter current decantation CCD circuit, copper and uranium solvent extraction plants, a copper electrowinning plant and a precipitation and calcining plant for uranium concentrates.
Process plant capacity is approximately 215,000 tonnes per annum of copper and 4,000 tonnes per annum of uranium oxide concentrates.
Power for the Olympic Dam operations is supplied via a 275kV powerline from Port Augusta, transmitted by ElectraNet in accordance with the National Electricity Code and the Electricity Act 1996 SA.
Information on the Company continued Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER ZINC Antamina Antamina is owned by Compaa The Antamina project achieved The principal project facilities include a Minera Antamina Antamina SA, commercial production in October 2001. primary crusher, a nominal 70,000 tonnes 270 kilometres north of in which we hold a 33.75% per day concentrator, copper and zinc Lima at an altitude of interest.
The remaining interests flotation circuits and a bismuth moly 4,300 metres, Peru are held by Xstrata 33.75%, Teck cleaning circuit, a 300 kilometre Open-cut mine Cominco 22.5% and Mitsubishi concentrate pipeline with single-stage The mine is accessible by 10%.
pumping, and port facilities at Huarmey.
a Company-maintained The pipeline design throughput is Antamina is the operator of the 115-kilometre access road.
A 300-kilometre pipeline Power to the mine site is being supplied Antamina holds mining rights from transports the copper and under long-term contracts with individual the Peruvian state over its mine zinc concentrates to the power producers through a 58 kilometre and operations.
These rights can port of Huarmey.
220 kV transmission line, which is be held indefinitely, contingent The molybdenum and connected to Perus national energy grid.
upon the annual payment of lead bismuth concentrates licence fees and the supply of are transported by truck information on investment and to different locations for production.
SILVER, LEAD AND ZINC Cannington We own and operate Cannington.
The deposit was discovered in 1990.
The beneficiation plant consists of Concentrate production commenced in a primary grinding circuit AG mill, 300 kilometres southeast The Cannington deposit is October 1997. secondary grinding circuit tower mill, of Mt Isa, Queensland, contained within mining leases pre-flotation circuit, fine lead flotation Australia granted by the State of In February 2003, the Cannington Growth circuit, coarse lead flotation circuit, zinc Queensland in 1994 and which Project commenced to improve mill Underground mine flotation circuit, concentrate and tailings expire in 2029. throughput and metal recovery.
The The mine is accessible thickening, lead and zinc concentrate project was completed during 2005. by public road and a leaching circuits, lead and zinc concentrate Company-owned airstrip.
filtration circuit and a paste plant.
Product is transported Nominal capacity is 3.1 mtpa.
187 kilometres by road to A power station, consisting of a Yurbi, a Company-owned combination of gas-fired and diesel-fired loading facility, where it is engines, located at Cannington, is operated loaded on public rail and under contract to supply power solely to transported to a public Cannington.
port at which we lease a berth.
Development projects Pinto Valley Olympic Dam Pinto Valley, an open-cut copper mine in Arizona, USA, ceased operations in 1998 due to uneconomic conditions.
Cathode Due to the size of the Olympic Dam orebody, there is potential production continued through residual heap leach operations, to further increase the size of the operation over and above utilising existing ore stockpiles.
During FY2007, the restart of the the current capacity.
A pre-feasibility study is currently being concentrate facilities at Pinto Valley was approved.
The restart undertaken to examine capacity expansion options.
The scope of project began in January 2007 and concentrate production is the pre-feasibility study will address operational capacity, mining scheduled to begin in the second quarter of FY2008, with an methods, processing and smelter options, and the infrastructure, estimated annual average copper in concentrate production of health, safety and environmental practices required to support the 70 ktpa.
A substantial expansion of Olympic Dam will require completion of feasibility study and subsequent Board approval, as well as various regulatory and governmental approvals covering a range of operational matters.
5 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group The Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG encompasses our RBM is a leading producer of titania slag, high-purity pig iron, diamonds and titanium minerals businesses and included the rutile and zircon from mineral sands.
The zircon, rutile and pig iron fertilisers business until its sale in August 2006.
Our principal are sold as end-products both internationally and locally.
Ninety operations are located in Canada, South Africa and Mozambique.
five per cent of the total capacity is exported, yielding a world market share of approximately 15 per cent for titanium feedstocks Diamonds and 20 per cent for zircon.
Approximately 90 per cent of the The cornerstone of our diamonds business is the EKATI Diamond titanium dioxide slag produced by RBM is suitable for the chloride process of titanium dioxide pigment manufacture and is sold Mine.
EKATI has produced an average of approximately 3.5 million carats of rough diamonds annually over the last two years.
Due to internationally under a variety of short, medium and long-term contracts.
In June 2007, RBM announced that the preferred changes in available ore sources, future rough diamond production may vary from historical levels.
Annual sales from EKATI including members of a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE consortium have been identified to acquire a shareholding in the minority shares represent around three per cent of current world rough diamond supply by weight and six per cent by value.
The BBBEE consortium will acquire 24 per cent of both the mining and smelting operations at RBM.
It is envisaged We sell most of our rough diamonds to international diamond that RBM employees will become shareholders through an buyers through our Antwerp sales office.
We also sell a smaller employee share ownership plan ESOP which will own a further amount of our diamond production to two Canadian two per cent of RBM.
The next step in the process will be to manufacturers based in the Northwest Territories.
We sell polished finalise negotiations with the selected parties and to agree on the diamonds, manufactured through contract polishing arrangements, terms of the transaction.
Corridor Sands is currently in the prethrough our CanadaMark and AURIAS brands.
We are in the process of divesting TiGen.
Titanium minerals Fertilisers Our interest in titanium minerals consists of our 50 per cent Southern Cross Fertilisers was acquired as part of WMC.
effective interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa, On 1 August 2006, we completed the sale of Southern Cross and the Corridor Sands and TiGen minerals sands projects in Fertilisers to Incitec Pivot Limited for US$98 million.
Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the table below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source DIAMONDS EKATI Diamond Mine We own an 80% interest in the Construction began in 1997 and Major facilities at the mine include camp Core Zone joint venture, which production from the first open-cut was accommodation, a truck maintenance shop 310 kilometres northeast includes the existing operations.
The mine and processing with office complex, an equipmentof Yellowknife, Northwest The remaining 20% interest is held plant began operation in mid 1998. warming shed and the process plant.
Territories, Canada by two individuals.
The processing plant consists of primary, In October 2001, we acquired Dia Met Beartooth and Fox are secondary and tertiary crushers, We also own a 58.8% interest in Minerals Ltd, bringing our interest in the open-cut mines and washers scrubber and grinder and heavy the Buffer Zone joint venture, Core Zone and Buffer Zone joint ventures Panda is an underground media separator.
The diamond recovery made up predominantly of up to 80% and 58.8% respectively.
process makes use of wet high-intensity exploration targets.
Current active mines include two open-cut The mines are accessible magnetics, wet and dry particle X-ray We are the operators of the mines.
Beartooth and Fox and one underground year round by contracted sorters, drier and grease table.
Nameplate mine Panda, with a second underground aircraft.
Tenure is secured through capacity is 9,000 tonnes of ore per day at mine currently under construction Koala.
ownership of mining leases Road access is available a 1mm screen size cut-off.
granted by the Government of for approximately Major underground infrastructure, which Canada.
Mining leases have been 10 weeks per year via an includes access portal and ramps, granted for reserves until 2017. ice road.
underground conveyor and material handling systems and development headings, in place to facilitate mining of the Panda Underground and Koala Underground currently in development.
All the electric power is generated by our Company-owned and operated diesel power station.
In addition, there is storage for approximately 90 million litres of diesel fuel on-site.
Information on the Company continued Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source TITANIUM MINERALS Richards Bay Minerals RBM comprises two legal entities, Richards Bay Minerals was formed in 1976 Mining is conducted largely by sand dredge Tisand Pty Ltd and Richards Bay to mine and beneficiate the sands in the mining, with minor supplementary dry Four beach sand dredge Iron and Titanium Pty Ltd. coastal dunes.
Gravity separation via spiral is then mines 10 to 50 kilometres Our share is 51% and 49.45% utilised to produce a heavy mineral north of Richards Bay, The mining operations were expanded respectively.
This concentrate is then KwaZulu-Natal, South to five, with the last mine added in 2000. and 50.55% are held by Rio Tinto.
trucked to a central processing plant where Africa In 2006, this was reduced to four, with the The overall net income is shared magnetic, electrostatic and gravity closure of one mining pond.
The mine is accessible equally.
techniques are used to produce the finished via public rail, road and products, being rutile and zircon and the RBM management independently port.
operates the joint venture on The rail between the mine behalf of the shareholders.
The smelter processes the ilmenite to site, harbour and produce titanium dioxide slag, with a RBM holds long-term renewable shipping facilities are titanium dioxide of approximately 85% leases from the state of South owned by Spoornet and and high-purity iron.
Portnet both government The nominal titanium slag capacity is business enterprises These leases are subject to the 1.06 mtpa.
supplying services on South African Mining Charter and behalf of the state.
must be lodged for a conversion The power for the operation is purchased The roads accessing the to a New Order Mining Right by from the South African grid.
smelter are governmentno later than 30 April 2009 see owned.
TiGen Development projects Koala Underground We own a 100 per cent interest in TiGen, another significant ilmenite orebody, located at Moebase in northern Mozambique.
In June 2006, we approved the development of the second We are in the process of divesting TiGen.
commercial underground mine at the EKATI Diamond Mine in Canada.
In addition to the mine development, the investment Potash provides for mine ventilation systems, an underground conveyor We have acquired access to substantial acreage in the worlds connecting to the existing Panda Underground conveyor, and largest mineable potash basin in Canada.
We plan to progress the minor surface infrastructure and mobile equipment.
The project concept study in 2008. will deliver a total of 7.1 million dry tonnes of ore to the process plant and recover 6.5 million carats of high-quality Koala diamonds.
Total project life is expected to be 11 years.
Total development costs are estimated at US$250 million our share US$200 million.
First production is expected in the second quarter of FY2008.
Corridor Sands We own 90 per cent of Corridor Sands Ltd, the joint venture company that holds the Corridor Sands mineral tenement.
The other 10 per cent equity is owned by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa Ltd.
Currently, the project is in the pre-feasibility phase to study the options to exploit undeveloped ilmenite deposits near the town of Chibuto, 190 kilometres north of Maputo and 50 kilometres inland from Xa Xai in the Gaza Province, Southern Mozambique.
A worldscale integrated open-cut mining, concentration and smelting operation is envisaged to produce titania slag and high-purity iron, as well as the minerals rutile and zircon.
We have a Prospecting and Research Licence Mineral Tenement on land that incorporates the Corridor Sands mineral sands project, which we can convert to a mining title upon committing to a development plan.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Our Stainless Steel Materials CSG is the worlds third largest nickel approximately 55 per cent of the matte was sent by rail to producer.
Stainless Steel Materials primarily services the stainless our Kwinana refinery, while the rest was exported.
The Kwinana steel industry through its wide range of high-quality nickel refinery produces nickel metal LME briquettes and nickel powder, products.
ammonium sulphate, copper sulphide and mixed sulphides mainly nickel and cobalt, which are exported excluding ammonium We produce the following products: sulphate.
Ammonium sulphate is sold locally, with any excess nickel in the form of compacts, high-purity nickel briquettes and exported.
Nickel West will include the nickel operation at powders, high-purity ferronickel granules and chemical-grade Ravensthorpe, Western Australia refer to Development projects nickel oxide below upon completion.
nickel intermediates in the form of matte, concentrate and nickel oxide Cerro Matoso is an integrated nickel mining, smelting and refining cobalt in the form of chemical-grade cobalt oxide hydroxide and operation located in northern Colombia.
Cerro Matoso is the electrolytic cobalt cathodes.
worlds second largest producer of ferronickel and a nickel industry leader in unit cost of production.
Cerro Matoso combines a highIn addition, we supply nickel and cobalt to other markets, grade lateritic nickel deposit with large-scale rotary kiln electric including the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals and refractory furnace production facilities to produce ferronickel for export.
material industries and also the intermediate nickel market.
Our products are sold under a mix of long-term, medium-term and The Yabulu refinery is a nickel and cobalt processing plant.
We spot contracts, with nickel prices linked to the London Metal purchase approximately 3.5 wet mtpa of nickel and cobalt-bearing Exchange.
laterite and some saprolitic ores from third party mines in New Caledonia, Indonesia and the Philippines.
The purchases are made We acquired Nickel West as part of the WMC acquisition in June under short and medium-term supply agreements.
Nickel West is the worlds third largest producer of nickel in produces high-purity nickel and cobalt products that are used in concentrate.
It is a fully integrated nickel business comprising the manufacture of stainless steel, specialty steels, alloys and mines, concentrators, a smelter and a refinery in Western chemicals.
The price of the ore we purchase is linked to the nickel Australia.
We mine nickel ore at Leinster and Mt Keith and and cobalt metal content and current LME metal prices.
We sell the concentrate the ore on-site.
The combined concentrate product is nickel products with varying metal content in the range 32 per cent transported by rail and mixed with concentrate from our Kambalda to 99 per cent nickel.
We sell the cobalt in oxide-hydroxide form.
concentrator at our Kalgoorlie smelter.
The Kalgoorlie smelter produces nickel matte and sulphuric acid.
During FY2007, Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the table below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL Leinster We own and operate the mines at Production commenced in 1967.
Concentration plant with a nominal Leinster.
operating capacity of 3 mtpa of ore. 375 kilometres north of WMC purchased the Leinster nickel Kalgoorlie in Western Leases are currently within their operations in 1988 from Mt Isa Mines Power at the Kambalda, Mt Keith and Australia, Australia initial 21-year lease period.
Leinster nickel operations and at the further 21-year term is available.
Kalgoorlie nickel smelter is primarily Open-cut and In June 2005, we gained control of Nickel Further renewals are at the derived from on-site third party gas-fired underground mines West Leinster and Mt Keith as part of Ministers discretion.
Gas for these turbines is sourced the acquisition of WMC.
The mine is accessible by have expiry dates between 2009 by us from the northwest gas fields.
The government-owned road and 2026. existing gas supply contract terminates in and rail.
Nickel concentrate is The gas is transported through the shipped by rail to the Goldfields Gas Pipeline, pursuant to an Kalgoorlie smelter.
agreement with Southern Cross Energy that expires in January 2014.
Mt Keith We own and operate the mine at The Mt Keith mine was officially Concentration plant with a nominal Mt Keith.
commissioned in January 1995 by WMC.
capacity of 11.5 mtpa of ore. 460 kilometres north of Kalgoorlie, Western Leases are currently within their In June 2005, we gained control of Nickel Power is sourced from the same supplier Australia, Australia initial 21-year lease period.
A West Leinster and Mt Keith as part of under the same conditions as the Leinster further 21-year term is available.
Open-cut mine Further renewals are at Ministers The mine is accessible by discretion.
The lease expiry dates private road.
Nickel concentrate is transported by road to Leinster nickel operations from where it is transported by public rail to Kalgoorlie smelter.
Information on the Company continued Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL continued Cerro Matoso We own 99.94% of CMSA.
0.06% Mining commenced in 1980 and nickel Beneficiation plant for the mine consists is held by employees.
production started in 1982 under of a primary and secondary crusher, ore Montelibano, Crdoba, Colombian Government, BHP Billiton and storage, and blender and rotary kiln with Colombia Mining concession rights extend to Hanna Mining ownership.
Open-cut mine In 1989, we increased our ownership to The ferronickel smelter and refinery are Land on which reserves are The mine is accessible by 53%, in 1997 to 99.8% and in 2007 to integrated with the mine.
99.9% Ore is fed into two rotary driers and then In 1999, an expansion project to double along with coal fed into two rotary kilns.
installed capacity was started, and in The kilns feed the two electric furnaces, January 2001 the first metal was tapped which produce the molten metal that is from the second line.
tapped in 55 tonne ladles and sent for refining into ferronickel granules of approximately 35% nickel and 65% iron.
Plant design capacity is 50,000 tonnes per annum.
Actual capacity depends on nickel grade from the mine.
Electricity is supplied from the national grid based on supply contracts negotiated for 5-year periods.
A pipeline supplies nationally sourced natural gas for drier and kiln operation.
Information on Stainless Steel Materials smelters, refineries and processing plants Ownership, operation Operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity Kambalda We own and operate the Mill and concentrator plant producing The Kambalda concentrator has a capacity Kambalda nickel concentrator.
concentrate containing approximately of 1.5 mtpa of ore. 56 kilometres south of 13% nickel.
Kalgoorlie, Western Ore is sourced through tolling and Power arrangements are the same as for Australia, Australia concentrate purchase the Leinster mine see above.
arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We hold 21-year leases over the land from the Western Australian Government.
The lease expiry dates range between 2007 and 2027.
Further renewals are at the Governments discretion.
Kalgoorlie nickel smelter We own and operate the The flash smelting process produces The Kalgoorlie smelter has a capacity of Kalgoorlie nickel smelter operation matte containing approximately 68% 110,000 tonnes per annum of nickel matte.
Kalgoorlie, Western and hold freehold title over the nickel.
Australia, Australia Power arrangements are the same as for property, plant and equipment.
the Leinster mine see above.
Kwinana nickel refinery We own and operate the Kwinana The refinery uses the Sherritt-Gordon The Kwinana nickel refinery has a capacity nickel refinery operation and hold ammonia leach process to convert nickel of 65,000 tonnes per annum of nickel 30 kilometres south of freehold title over the property, matte from the Kalgoorlie nickel smelter metal.
Perth, Western Australia, plant and equipment.
into LME-grade nickel briquettes and Australia Power generated by Southern Cross Energy nickel powder.
in the goldfields is distributed across The refinery also produces a number of Western Powers network for use at the intermediate products, including copper Kwinana Nickel Refinery.
We purchase sulphide, cobalt-nickel sulphide and delivered gas for use at the Kwinana Nickel ammonium sulphate.
This gas is sourced from North sulphide is treated by a third party West Shelf gas fields and is transported by processor that separates the nickel and the Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas cobalt into metal.
Pipeline and the Parmelia Pipeline.
The existing gas supply contract terminates in October 2013.
Yabulu We own and operate Yabulu and Yabulu consists of a major laterite nickel The Yabulu refinery has an annual hold freehold title over the refinery refinery and cobalt refinery.
production capacity of approximately 25 kilometres northwest property, plant and equipment.
32,000 tonnes of nickel and 2,000 tonnes of Townsville, Queensland, The Yabulu refinery has two major of cobalt.
Australia The berth, ore handling facilities sections.
We process nickel ore using the and fuel oil facilities at the reduction roast ammonia-ammonium Currently, we source power and steam Townsville port are situated on carbonate leaching process in from a combination of on-site coal-fired long-term leasehold land.
combination with a solvent extraction and oil-fired boilers and electrical power process that was developed and patented from Ergon Energy and coal seam gas from at the refinery.
separates the nickel and cobalt.
Our cobalt purification plant produces a highpurity cobalt oxide hydroxide product.
32 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 33 Development projects Yabulu In March 2004, we approved the expansion of the Yabulu refinery in conjunction with the development of the Ravensthorpe Nickel Project described below.
The expansion will increase nickel production capacity of the existing plant to an estimated 76,000 tonnes per annum and extend the life of the refinery by approximately 25 years.
In November 2006, the approved budget for the project was revised to US$556 million.
First nickel metal production is expected from the expanded refinery in 2008.
Ravensthorpe The Ravensthorpe Nickel Project was approved in March 2004.
In November 2006, the Board approved a revised budget of US$2.2 billion.
The first shipment of MHP was also revised from the fourth quarter of calendar year 2006 to fourth quarter of calendar year 2007.
The project includes the development of a mine, treatment plant and associated infrastructure near Ravensthorpe in Western Australia.
The Ravensthorpe processing plant will produce a mixed nickel cobalt hydroxide intermediate product, which will feed the expansion of the Yabulu refinery.
Cliffs The Cliffs Nickel Project was approved in July 2007 with an approved budget of US$139 million.
The Cliffs project is a new development of an underground, narrow-vein nickel mine located in the Northern Goldfields of Western Australia.
The project will supplement ore supply to the existing concentrator at Leinster Nickel Operations.
It is expected to generate an estimated 8,500 tonnes per annum of Nickel in ore over 10 years, commencing in October 2008.
7 Iron Ore Customer Sector Group Due to recent growth, and a change in internal reporting structure, long-term contracts, with prices set annually.
Iron ore mined from Iron Ore, Manganese and Metallurgical Coal, which were Yandi, Jimblebar and Mt Goldsworthy Area C deposits is sold under previously reported as Carbon Steel Materials CSG, are now marketing arrangements that are detailed in the footnotes to the reported as separate CSGs.
production and reserves tables in sections 2.4.
2 footnotes 16, 17 and 19 and 2.14.2 of this Annual Report.
Our principal iron ore operations are based in the Pilbara region of northwestern Australia.
Through a series majority-owned joint On 24 August 2005, we announced the permanent closure of the ventures we mine iron ore from a number of open-cut mines and hot briquetted iron production facilities at our wholly-owned transport it by our own rail network to our port facilities at Port Boodarie Iron plant in Western Australia.
Demolition of the lower Hedland.
We also hold a 50 per cent interest in Samarco, with level structures surrounding the main furnace and briquetting mining operations and associated transport infrastructure located building began in February 2007, with the aim of completing the in Brazil.
We sell lump and fine product from Australia, while demolition in first half of FY2009.
We intend to retain the Boodarie Samarco sells pellets from Brazil, to steel producers, principally Iron beneficiation plant to complete feasibility studies into longerlocated in China, other countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle term options for our lower-grade iron ore. East, Europe and the United States.
Sales are generally under Information on Iron Ore mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the table below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Mt Newman joint We hold an 85% interest in the Mt Production began at the Mt Whaleback At Mt Whaleback, primary and secondary venture Newman joint venture.
The other orebody in 1969. crushing plants capacity of 35 mtpa : a 15% is held by Mitsui ITOCHU Iron heavy media beneficiation plant capacity Pilbara region, Western Production continues to be sourced from 10% and ITOCHU Minerals and of eight mtpa and a train-loading facility.
Australia, Australia the major Mt Whaleback orebody, Energy of Australia 5%.
complemented by production from At orebody 25, an additional primary Open-cut mine We are the operators.
orebodies 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30. and secondary crushing plant capacity The mine is accessible of 8 mtpa.
Mining lease under the Iron Ore by public road and Mt Newman Agreement Act A crusher and train-loading facility at Company-owned rail to 1964, this expires in 2009 with the orebody 18. the joint ventures Nelson right to successive renewals of Point shipping facility at Power comes from Alinta Dewaps Newman 21 years.
gas-fired power station via Companyowned powerlines.
Yandi joint venture We hold an 85% interest in the We began development of the orebody in Two processing plants and a primary Yandi joint venture.
The other 1991 with an initial capacity of 10 mtpa.
crusher and overland conveyor are used to Pilbara region, Western 15% is held by Mitsui Iron Ore The first shipment occurred in 1992. crush and screen ore and deliver it to one Australia, Australia Corporation 7% and ITOCHU of two train-loading facilities.
Capacity was progressively expanded Open-cut mine Minerals and Energy of Australia between 1994 and 2003 and is currently Power comes from the Alinta Dewaps The mine is accessible 8%.
Newman power station via Companyby public road and An independent contract mining owned powerlines.
Company-owned rail to company is the operator of the the Nelson Point shipping mine.
Mining lease under the Iron Ore Marillana Creek Agreement Act 1991 expires in 2012 with renewal right to a further 42 years.
Jimblebar We own 100% of the Jimblebar Production at Jimblebar began in Primary and secondary crushing plant lease, however in October 2005, March 1989. capacity of 8 mtpa.
Pilbara region, Western we entered into a sublease Australia, Australia The ore currently being produced Power comes from the Alinta Dewaps agreement over the Wheelara is blended with ore produced from Newman power station via CompanyOpen-cut mine deposit with Itochu Minerals and Mt Whaleback and satellite orebodies owned powerlines.
The mine is accessible Energy of Australia, Mitsui Iron 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30 to create the by public road and Ore and four separate subsidiaries Mt Newman blend.
Company-owned rail to of Chinese Steelmakers.
As a Port Hedland via a consequence of this arrangement, 30-kilometre spur line we are entitled to 85% of linking with the main production from the Wheelara Newman to Port Hedland sublease.
An independent contract mining company is the operator of the mine.
Mining lease under the Iron Ore McCameys Monster Agreement Authorisation Act 1972 expires in 2009 with the rights to successive renewals of 21 years.
34 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 35 Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Mt Goldsworthy joint We hold an 85% interest in the Operations originally commenced at the Two primary crushers exist, one at Yarrie venture Mt Goldsworthy joint venture.
Mt Goldsworthy project in 1966 and the and the other at Nimingarra, with a Shay Gap mine in 1973.
The original mine combined capacity of 8 mtpa.
Pilbara region, Western The other 15% is held by Mitsui closed in 1982 and the associated Shay Australia, Australia Iron Ore Corporation 7% and An ore processing plant is located at Area C Gap mine closed in 1993.
Since then, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of with capacity of 23 mtpa.
A primary Open-cut mine mining has continued from the adjacent Australia 8%.
crusher and overland conveyor are currently The mine is accessible by Nimingarra and Yarrie areas.
An independent contract mining public road and We opened Area C mine in 2003. company is the operator of the Power for Yarrie and Nimingarra is sourced Company-owned rail to mine.
At the beginning of September 2006, we via overhead powerlines from the Port the joint ventures suspended C Berth ship loading Hedland gas-fired powered station Finucane Island shipping Four mineral leases under the Iron operations at Finucane Island as part of operated by Alinta Dewap.
facilities and the Nelson Ore Mt Goldsworthy Agreement Rapid Growth Project 3 RGP3 expansion Point shipping facilities, Act 1964 and the Iron Ore Area C sources its power from the Newman works.
The C Berth ship loading both located at Port Goldsworthy Nimingarra power station also operated by Alinta operations will recommence at the Hedland.
Agreement Act 1972, which have Dewap.
completion of RGP3 as described below.
expiry dates between 2007 and Our railway spur links 2014 with rights to successive Area C mine to the renewals of 21 years.
A number of smaller mining leases granted under the Mining Act 1978 in 2005.
Samarco We own 50% of Samarco.
The Production began at the Germano mine in There is a 396-kilometre iron ore slurry other 50% is owned by 1977 and at the Alegria complex in 1992. pipeline integrating the mining complex Southeast Brazil Companhia Vale do Rio Doce The Alegria complex has now replaced the to pellet plants.
Samarco is operated as an depleted Germano mine.
The last An iron ore beneficiation plant has The mine is accessible by independent business with its own expansion occurred in 1997 when a a capacity of 16.5 mtpa.
second pellet plant was built.
In 2005, an Two pellet plants have a total capacity belts transport iron ore to optimisation project increased pellet feed The Brazilian Government has of 14.0 mtpa.
the beneficiation plant and pellet production.
granted mining concessions to and a 396-kilometre Samarco operates one hydroelectric power Samarco as long as it mines the slurry pipeline transports plant and has a 49% stake in another.
Alegria Complex according to an pellet feed to the pellet These plants furnish approximately 35% agreed plan.
Iron pellets are exported Samarco has signed an agreement expiring via private port facilities.
in 2013 to purchase remaining power needs from a local concessionaire that operates hydroelectric power plant.
Development projects Samarco Western Australia Iron Ore In October 2005, our Board approved construction of a third pellet plant at Ponta Ubu, together with a mine expansion, a new We have undertaken a series of development projects referred to concentrator at Germano, port enhancements and a second slurry as Rapid Growth Projects RGP.
In February 2004, we completed pipeline.
The project will increase iron ore pellet capacity by an expansion of our Port Hedland facilities, which increased 7.6 million tonnes at a cost of US$1.18 billion US$590 million capacity to 100 mtpa.
In October 2004, our Board approved Rapid our share.
Production is scheduled to commence during the Growth Project 2 RGP2, which comprised mine, rail and port second half of FY2008.
capacity increases through the development of orebody 18, purchase of additional rolling stock, and a new car dumper at our Finucane Island facility at Port Hedland.
RGP2 project work was completed in June 2006 increasing system capacity to 118 mtpa by the end of the second quarter of FY2007.
However, the closure of Boodarie Iron in 2005 reduced system capacity by 1 mtpa.
There has been an 8 mtpa reduction in capacity since September 2006 owing to the suspension of ship loading from the old Goldsworthy operations at Finucane Island, which is being replaced as part of RGP3 approved by our Board in October 2005.
Work continues on RGP3s mine rail and port expansions with a budgeted cost of US$1,300 million.
The related installed capacity at the Area C mine will increase by 20 mtpa by the second quarter of FY2008.
The total system capacity at the conclusion of RGP3 in the first half of FY08 will be 129 mtpa.
In March 2007, BHP Billiton announced approval for the Rapid Growth Project 4 RGP4, which will increase system capacity across our Western Australian iron ore operations to 155 mtpa at a budgeted cost of US$1,850 million.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group Due to recent growth, and a change in internal reporting structure, manganese alloys at the Metalloys site, making Samancor Iron Ore, Manganese and Metallurgical Coal, which were Manganese the 100% owner of Advalloy.
In Australia, we produce previously reported as Carbon Steel Materials CSG, are now ore at Groote Eylandt in the Northern Territory GEMCO and reported as separate CSGs.
manganese alloys in northern Tasmania TEMCO.
We have a 60 per cent effective ownership of both GEMCO and TEMCO.
We hold our South African manganese interests through a We are the managers of all the above operations.
60 per cent holding in Samancor Manganese Pty Ltd.
The remaining 40 per cent is held by Anglo American.
In South Africa, We sell manganese ore to alloyers, principally in Asia, Europe, Samancor Manganese produces manganese ore from two mines at Australia and South Africa.
Of our external sales, approximately Hotazel in the Northern Cape Province, produces manganese alloy 50% are priced annually.
The rest are priced quarterly or at a plant Metalloys in Gauteng Province and has a 51 per cent occasionally on a spot basis.
We sell manganese metal and alloys, interest in Manganese Metal Company, a producer of electrolytic principally to steelmakers under long-term contracts that usually manganese metal.
In July 2006, we purchased Mitsuis 50 per cent provide for quarterly adjustment of prices, either by negotiation shareholding in Advalloy Pty Ltd, which produces refined or reference to published market prices.
Information on Manganese mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the table below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Hotazel Manganese Hotazel Manganese Mines, a Mamatwan was commissioned in 1964.
Mamatwans capacity is currently 2.8 mtpa Mines division of Samancor Manganese, of ore and sinter based on the current Wessels was commissioned in 1973. is the operator of Mamatwan and product mix at the mine.
The beneficiation Kalahari Basin, South Wessels.
plant consists of primary, secondary and Africa tertiary crushing with associated screening Samancor Manganese must sell Mamatwan is an plants.
There is a dense medium separator 15% of its interest to a BEE entity open-cut mine.
and a sinter plant with a capacity of by 2009 to comply with the South Wessels is an 1.4 mtpa of sinter.
African Mining Charter and underground mine.
Negotiations are Wessels has two loaders and four haulers The mines are accessible proceeding with possible BEE with an annual capacity of approximately by rail and public road.
The processing is a simple Most ore and sinter crushing and screening circuit consisting of products are transported primary and secondary crushing circuits by government-owned with associated screening capacity.
60% of the ore The power source is the national utility produced is beneficiated company Eskom.
locally with the balance exported via Port Elizabeth and Durban.
Groote Eylandt Mining We own 60% of GEMCO, which The mine was first commissioned in 1965.
The beneficiation process consists of Company Pty Ltd owns and operates the mine.
crushing, screening and dense media GEMCO The remaining 40% is owned by separation with lump and fines products Anglo American.
The existing capacity is Groote Eylandt, Northern 3.4 mtpa.
Territory, Australia All leases situated on Aboriginal land held under the Aboriginal GEMCO owns and operates its own on-site Open-cut mine Land Rights Northern Territory diesel power generation facility.
Ore is transported from Act 1976.
Leases have been the concentrator by road renewed for a period of 25 years train directly to our from 2006. shipping facilities at the port at Milner Bay.
36 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 37 Information on Manganese smelters, refineries and processing plants Ownership, operation Operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity and power source Advalloy Pty Ltd Samancor Manganese owns 100% Manganese alloy plant uses an electric Advalloy has a capacity of 82,000 tonnes of Advalloy.
Samancor Manganese arc furnace process producing refined per annum of medium-carbon Meyerton, South Africa holds freehold title over the manganese alloy.
The power source is the national utility company Eskom.
Manganese Metal Samancor Manganese owns 51% A manganese production plant at Manganese Metal Company has a capacity Company Pty Ltd of Manganese Metal Company.
Nelspruit processing and electrowinning to produce 27,000 tonnes per annum of Delta Plc indirectly owns the of manganese ore into electrolytic electrolytic manganese metal.
manganese metal via a hydrometallurgical The power source is the national utility extraction process.
Manganese Metal Company holds company Eskom.
freehold title over the property, plant and equipment.
Metalloys Metalloys is a division of Samancor Manganese alloy plant uses eight electric 370,000 tonnes of high-carbon Manganese.
arc furnaces to produce manganese alloys ferromanganese including hot metal Meyerton, South Africa such as high-carbon ferromanganese and and 120,000 tonnes of silicomanganese Samancor Manganese holds silicomanganese.
in various fractions per annum.
The power source is the national utility company Eskom with 35 mws of power generation from waste gases.
Tasmanian Electro We own 60% of TEMCO.
Anglo Four electric arc furnaces and a sinter Nominal capacity based on the 2007 Metallurgical Company American owns the remaining plant produce ferroalloys, including highproduct mix is 128,000 tonnes of highPty Ltd TEMCO 40%.
Samancor Manganese carbon ferromanganese, silicomanganese carbon ferromanganese, 126,000 tonnes manages the operations.
of silicomanganese and 336,000 tonnes Bell Bay, Tasmania, of sinter per annum.
Australia TEMCO holds freehold title over the property, plant and equipment.
TEMCO sources its electrical power from Aurora Energy, the State-owned power distribution and retailing company.
Power in Tasmania is principally generated from hydro stations, but supplemented with a 240 mw gas generation station.
TEMCO also self-generates 11 mws for internal use from an on-site Energy Recovery Unit.
In addition, Basslink, a 600 mw interconnector between Tasmania and Victoria, came online in May 2006, and has provided additional capacity and security of supply in periods of drought.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group Due to recent growth, and a change in internal reporting structure, Associates CQCA joint venture and the Gregory joint venture.
Iron Ore, Manganese and Metallurgical Coal, which were Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd has the remaining 50 per cent previously reported as Carbon Steel Materials CSG, are now interest in these two joint ventures.
In addition, BMA operates two reported as separate CSGs.
other Bowen Basin mines for BHP Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd, in which we have an 80 per cent interest.
The majority of the coal production is Our Metallurgical Coal CSG is the worlds largest supplier of high-quality metallurgical coal used for steelmaking.
We mine metallurgical coal in Australia and sell it to steel producers in Japan, Europe, Korea, The CQCA joint venture owns and operates the Hay Point coal India, Taiwan, Brazil, China and Australia, generally under annual terminal in Mackay, Queensland, through which most of the contracts.
Hay Point has throughput capacity of 40 mtpa and can accommodate bulk carriers of up to 230,000 Together with Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd, we own six opendeadweight tonnes.
cut coal mines, two underground coal mines and a port in the Bowen Basin, Queensland, Australia.
These coal mining operations We also own and operate three underground coal mines in the are managed through BM Alliance Coal Operations Pty Ltd BMA, Illawarra region of New South Wales Australia.
Coal from these a jointly owned entity, and we market the coal produced.
These mines is either sold to BlueScope Steels Port Kembla steelworks or mines are separated into two joint venture structures in which we shipped to domestic and international customers.
have a 50 per cent interest, namely the Central Queensland Coal Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations A detailed description of our producing assets is listed in the following tables.
These tables should also be read in conjunction with the production table and reserves table below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Central Queensland We own 50% of the CQCA joint Goonyella mine, which commenced in All coal is beneficiated at on-site processing Coal Associates joint venture.
Mitsubishi owns the other 1971, merged with the adjoining Riverside facilities, which have a combined capacity venture 50%.
mine in 1989 and is operated as the in excess of 51.5 mtpa.
Reserves at the Bowen Basin, BM Alliance Coal Operations, a Power is sourced from the State of Riverside mine were depleted in 2005.
Queensland, Australia joint venture entity, is the operator Queenslands electricity grid.
Peak Downs commenced production in Goonyella Riverside, 1972.
Saraji mine commenced production Leases for the CQCA mines have Peak Downs, Saraji, in 1974.
Norwich Park commenced expiry dates between 2008 and Norwich Park and production in 1979.
2024 and are renewable for such Blackwater are open-cut further periods as the Queensland Blackwater mine commenced production mines.
South Blackwater and Blackwater longwall underground mines were integrated in mid 2001. mine.
Broadmeadow, an underground mine The mines are accessible developed on the Goonyella mining lease, by public road.
All coal is commenced longwall operations in transported on August 2005. government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point coal terminal and the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal and the port of Gladstone.
Gregory joint venture We own 50% of the Gregory joint The Gregory mine became operational in All coal is beneficiated at on-site processing venture.
Mitsubishi Development 1979. facilities, which have a combined capacity Bowen Basin, Pty Ltd owns the other 50%.
Queensland, Australia Crinum mine commenced longwall BM Alliance Coal Operations, a production in 1997.
Power is sourced from the State of Gregory is an open-cut joint venture entity, is the operator Queenslands electricity grid.
Crinum is a longwall A mining lease expired in 2006 underground mine.
and is in the process of being The mines are accessible renewed.
Other leases have expiry by public road.
All coal is dates between 2014 and 2019, and transported on are renewable for such further government-owned periods as the Queensland railways to the port of Government allows.
Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point coal terminal and the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal and the port of Gladstone.
38 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 39 Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source BHP Mitsui Coal joint We own 80% of the BHP Mitsui The joint venture commissioned Riverside, South Walker Creek coal is beneficiated at venture Coal joint venture.
Mitsui and Co an open-cut mine, in 1983.
Reserves were on-site processing facilities with a capacity owns the other 20%.
depleted in 2005. to produce 4.0 mtpa of coal.
Bowen Basin, Queensland, Australia BMA manages the mines, which South Walker Creek became operational in Poitrel mine has entered into a joint are operated through independent 1998, producing pulverised coal injection venture agreement with the adjacent South Walker Creek and contractors.
PCI product and minor quantities of byMillennium Coal mine to share coal Poitrel are open-cut product energy coal.
processing and rail loading facilities.
Leases expire in 2020, and are will have access to 3 mtpa capacity from renewable for such further periods Construction for the new Poitrel mine The mines are accessible the processing facilities.
as the Queensland Government commenced in early 2006 and first coal by public road.
The mine Power is sourced from the State of transported on has a production capacity of 3.0 mtpa of Queenslands electricity grid.
government-owned The joint venture holds additional metallurgical and PCI coals.
railways to the port of undeveloped leases in the Bowen Hay Point near Mackay Basin.
incorporating CQCAs Hay Point coal terminal and the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal.
Illawarra Coal We are owner and operator of the Appin commenced in 1962 with longwall Coal is beneficiated at two processing Illawarra Coal mines.
The adjoining facilities with a capacity to produce Illawarra, New South Douglas mine is being developed as a 8.8 mtpa.
Wales, Australia Leases have expiry dates between replacement for the Appin mine.
2010 and 2026, with renewal rights Power is sourced from the State of Underground mines under the NSW Mining Act 1992 West Cliff was commissioned in 1976.
New South Wales electricity grid.
All the mines are for periods of 21 years.
Reserves were accessible by public road.
In May 2007, we All coal is transported by agreed to sell the mine to Gujarat NRE road or on governmentFCGL Pty Ltd, subject to various owned railways to our conditions.
major customer, BlueScope Steels Port Dendrobium Mine opened in FY2005 at a Kembla steelworks or to total cost of US$200 million.
A modern Port Kembla for shipping.
longwall mine, it has now replaced the Elouera mine.
Development projects Maruwai Lampunut We are conducting exploration activities and feasibility studies into the development of a coking coal operation in the Maruwai Basin under various Coal Contract of Work CCOW agreements with the Indonesian Government.
If approved, the first stage of the development will see the development and operation of a 1 mtpa facility in the Lanai CCOW by the end of calendar year 2008 with subsequent development of a 3 to 5 mtpa facility in the Maruwai CCOW.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group Our Energy Coal CSG is one of the worlds largest producers and Investec Bank Limited will together hold 50 per cent less one share marketers of export thermal energy coal.
We mine energy coal in in the new entity.
The conclusion of the sale was effective 30 June South Africa, Australia, Colombia and the United States.
BECSA currently owns 33.96 per cent of the Richards Bay our domestic energy coal sales are under medium and long-term Coal Terminal RBCT, which has a capacity of 72 mtpa, through fixed-price contracts with power generation companies and which exports are shipped.
This reduction from FY2006 relates to utilities in Australia, South Africa and the US.
Most of our export the completion of the sale of Koornfontein and the sale of shares sales are made under short and medium-term contracts in Europe, to Exxaro, the sale of Optimum will see BECSA relinquish an Asia and the US.
additional 6.5 mtpa of this entitlement to the new owner reducing our holding of RBCT to 24.9 per cent.
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa Limited BECSA, previously Ingwe Collieries Limited, In Australia, we mine energy coal at Mt Arthur mine.
We are we operate six coal mines in the Witbank region of Mpumalanga currently undertaking underground feasibility work on the adjacent province of South Africa.
In FY2007, we supplied 30 million tonnes Bayswater mining area.
We deliver approximately one third of of energy coal to Eskom, a public electricity service company in Mt Arthurs production to local power stations via a 10 kilometre South Africa, and exported the bulk of the remaining 22 million overland conveyor.
The remainder is transported by rail tonnes.
In November 2006, we announced our intention to sell the approximately 100 kilometres to the port of Newcastle.
A binding bid received during January 2007, In New Mexico, we own and operate the Navajo open-cut and following a proposal, is currently going through the formal BHP San Juan underground mines.
Navajos production is sold to the Billiton review process.
Four Corners Power Plant under long-term contracts.
San Juans We announced on 2 July 2007 that we had reached closure on the production is sold to the nearby San Juan Generating Station under sale of Koornfontein Mine together with 1.5 mtpa of Richards Bay long-term contracts.
Coal Terminal entitlement to an entity controlled by a Black The Cerrejon Coal Company operates open-cut mines in La Guajira Economic Empowerment BEE consortium.
The BEE consortium, province in northeastern Colombia.
Production is mainly for export.
which holds 50 per cent plus one share in the new entity, is led by Siyanda Resources Pty Limited and AKA Resources Holdings Pty Limited, and includes various broad based groups as well as a Koornfontein employee trust.
Coronation Capital Limited and Information on Energy Coal mining operations A description of our producing assets is listed in the following tables.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserves tables below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA Douglas We own 84% of the Douglas Douglas was commissioned in 1979.
Beneficiation facilities consist of a crushing colliery joint venture through plant and a wash plant.
The overall 27 kilometres south of BECSA.
The remaining 16% is capacity is 14 mtpa.
Witbank, Mpumalanga owned by Xstrata Plc through Province, South Africa Power is supplied by Eskom.
Underground mine We are the operators of the mine.
The mine is accessible by BECSA and Tavistock are the public roads.
holders of two Old Order Mining Coal is exported via the Rights in the joint venture ratio of RBCT.
The coal is 84:16, and BECSA is the sole transported to RBCT via a holder of the Albion section right.
Spoornet a government These Old Order Rights must be business enterprise lodged for a conversion no later railway.
than 30 April 2009 see Government regulations.
Khutala We own and operate the mine at Khutala was commissioned in 1984.
Beneficiation facilities consist of a crushing Khutala.
plant, for the energy coal with a nominal 100 kilometres east of Open-cut operations began in 1996. capacity of 18 mtpa.
A separate smaller Johannesburg, BECSA is the holder of an Old The mining of a thermal metallurgical coal crusher and wash plant with a nominal Mpumalanga Province, Order Mining Right.
deposit for a domestic market capacity of 1.5 mtpa is used to beneficiate South Africa An application for conversion to a commenced in 2003. the metallurgical coal supplied from the Combination of open-cut New Order Mining Right, opencast operation.
and underground mines submitted in 2004, is still being Power is supplied by Eskom.
processed see Government The mine is accessible by regulations.
Domestic coal is transported via overland conveyor to the Kendal Power Station.
40 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 41 Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA continued Koornfontein We owned and operated the mine Koornfontein was commissioned in 1964.
Beneficiation facilities consist of three at Koornfontein.
On 18 July 2006, washing plants, each with a crusher.
35 kilometres south of we announced the sale of The overall capacity is 9 mtpa tonnes Middelburg, Mpumalanga Koornfontein.
The fulfilment of of energy coal.
Province, South Africa certain regulatory requirements Power is supplied by Eskom.
Underground mine including the conversion and The mine is accessible by transfer of Koornfonteins mining public roads.
rights in terms of the Minerals and Export coal is transported Petroleum Resources Development to RBCT by rail, while the Act of 2002 and the approval of domestic coal is the South African Competition transported via conveyor Commission has enabled the belt to the nearby Majuba conclusion of the sale, effective Power Station.
Koornfontein mine was the holder of an Old Order Mining Right.
Middelburg We own 84% of the Middelburg Middelburg mine was commissioned in Beneficiation facilities consist of the mine in a joint venture.
Middelburg Mine Services MMS following: crushing plants, crush and wash 20 kilometres southeast of remaining 16% is owned by and Duvha Opencast became one and fide-stone plants.
The overall capacity Witbank, Mpumalanga Xstrata Plc through Tavistock operation in FY1996.
Province, South Africa Collieries Plc.
In 2003, Douglas Opencast Operations Power is supplied by Eskom.
Open-cut mine We are the operators of the mine.
The mine is accessible by BECSA and Tavistock Collieries are public roads.
the holders of an Old Order Mining Export coal is transported Right in the joint venture ratio of to RBCT by rail, while the 84:16.
This Old Order Mining Right domestic coal is must be lodged for a conversion to transported via conveyor a New Order Mining Right by no belt to the nearby Duvha later than 30 April 2009 see Power Station.
Optimum We own and operate the mine at Optimum was commissioned in 1970.
Beneficiation facilities include a washing Optimum.
On 17 November 2006, plant and a fide-stoning plant.
The overall 40 kilometres south of Optimum Colliery was expanded with the we announced our intention to sell capacity is 17 mtpa.
Middelburg, Mpumalanga incorporation of the Eikeboom section Optimum.
A binding bid received Province, South Africa in 1993.
Power is supplied by Eskom.
during January 2007, following a Open-cut mine The most recent expansion was the proposal, is currently going development of the Kwagga pit and Access to the mine is via through the formal BHP Billiton associated infrastructure, which was public roads.
Export coal is transported BECSA is the holder of an Old to RBCT by rail, while the Order Mining Right, which entitles domestic coal is BECSA to continue its existing transported via conveyor mining operation.
BECSA is obliged belt to the nearby to lodge the said Old Order Mining Hendrina Power Station.
Right for conversion to a New Order Mining Right by no later than 30 April 2009 see Government regulations.
Klipspruit We own and operate the mine at The project was approved by the Current beneficiation facilities consist of Klipspruit.
Mpumalanga Department of Agriculture, three crushing, screening and wash plants 30 kilometres west of Conservation and Environment in 2003.
The overall Witbank, Mpumalanga BECSA is the holder of an Old An initial mini-pit was started in August capacity is 7.2 mtpa of energy coal.
Province, South Africa Order Mining Right.
An application 2003 as a truck and shovel contractor for conversion to a New Order Power is supplied by Eskom.
Mining Right was submitted in Access to the mine is via 2004 and is still being processed The Klipspruit dragline was started in public roads.
June 2005 and is currently mining Export coal is transported 4.8 mtpa of ROM.
to RBCT via Spoornet a government business enterprise railway.
Information on the Company continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source AUSTRALIA Mt Arthur Coal We own and operate the mine at Coal production from the Mt Arthur north Main beneficiation facilities include coal Mt Arthur.
area commenced in April 2002. handling, coal preparation and coal Approximately 100 washing plants with a total capacity of kilometres from We hold various mining leases that The on-site train-loading facility was 9.8 mtpa.
Newcastle, New South expire between October 2015 and commissioned in November 2001.
Electrical power is supplied by local energy providers, from the eastern Australia Open-cut mine power grid.
The mine is accessible by public road and over land to which we have title.
Domestic coal is transported by a 10 kilometre overland conveyor to Bayswater Power Station.
Export coal is transported by a combination of private and public rail, approximately 100 kilometres to the port of Newcastle.
AMERICA BHP Navajo Coal We own and operate the mine.
The mine has been in operation since The mine has the capacity to produce and Company 1963, and the initial contracts, scheduled process 10.7 mtpa.
Mined coal is sized and The mine is subject to a long-term to expire in December 2004 were blended to contract specifications using Navajo Nation, lease from the Navajo Nation.
The extended to July 2016. stackers and reclaimers with no further Farmington, New Mexico, lease continues for as long as coal beneficiation.
US can be economically produced and sold in paying quantities.
Electric power is supplied from FCPP.
Open-cut mine We hold various mining leases that Navajo mine is accessible expire between October 2015 and by public roads located on 2025. the Navajo Nation Indian Reservation.
We transport all coal 25 kilometres from the production areas via our dedicated railroad to the Four Corners Power Plant FCPP.
San Juan La Plata Mines We own and operate the mines.
The San Juan mine began operating in The mine has the capacity to produce 1974 as a surface mine.
Mined coal is sized and 25 kilometres west of We hold mining leases from we approved the development of the San blended to contract specifications using Farmington, New Mexico, federal and state governments.
Juan underground mine to replace stockpiles with no further beneficiation.
US The leases have five-year terms production from the existing San Juan that are automatically extendable The La Plata Mine is undergoing final The San Juan mine is and La Plata surface mines.
Underground upon meeting minimum closure.
longwall mining commenced in February production criteria.
All coal is sold to the San 2001 and the San Juan underground mine Juan Generating Station reached full production in early 2004. under long-term contracts.
COLOMBIA Cerrejon Coal Company We own 33.33% of the Cerrejon The original mine began as a joint Beneficiation facilities include a crushing Coal Company in a joint venture.
venture between Exxons Intercor and the plant and washing plant with a capacity of Maicao, La Guajira The remaining 66.67% interest is Colombian Government entity Carbocol in 29 mtpa.
province, Colombia owned by Anglo American Plc 1976.
Over time, the partners have Electricity is supplied through the local Open-cut mine 33.33% and Xstrata Plc changed, nearby operations have been Colombian power system.
merged and progressive expansion kilometres northeast of resulted in the current 29 mtpa operation.
Colombian Government leases the mine on the Caribbean expire in 2022 and 2034.
The coast at Puerto Bolivar private lease expires in 2034. and is connected to the mine by a single-track railway.
Access to the mine is via public roads and by charter aircraft to the mines airstrip.
Development Projects We currently have a number of projects in feasibility phase, namely Douglas Middelburg optimisation and Klipspruit in South Africa, Mount Arthur underground and Newcastle third port in Australia and Navajo mine extension in the USA.
