Its our reputation as a partner of choice Our licence to operate We will spend US$300 million Gaining and maintaining our licence to operate is critical to our business.
We aim to over the next five years ensure that the communities in which we operate value our citizenship.
With many new to develop low emission projects located in developing countries, it is increasingly important for us to be able to technology for our products, demonstrate to key stakeholders, including governments, our track record in making support internal energy a sustainable contribution to the socio-economic development of our host communities.
excellence programs and Working with our communities encourage emissions We aim to improve the social and economic circumstances of the communities in which abatement by our employees and local communities.
We aim to build capacity within the community, placing much of the decisionmaking in the hands of the individuals and groups involved.
Typical activities include will work with our customers, research institutions, peer access to basic health care and recreational facilities, provision of quality education and employment opportunities.
Where our presence in a country is significant, we often provide companies, employees and communities to get the most support for provincial or national programs through the development of a community foundation.
For example, our Minera Escondida Foundation in Chile has a founding mission out of these initiatives.
to contribute to improving the quality of life of low-income groups, principally in Antofagasta and the Second Region but also nationally.
Working with our suppliers We recognise the value to local economies that can be delivered through our activities and, wherever possible, encourage the development and the use of local suppliers and contractors.
We also understand that our support of indigenous contractors and businesses is important for many of the communities in which we operate.
This year our Western Australia Iron Ore WE SUPPORT OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES group has implemented a A$25 million Indigenous Contracting Strategy in the Pilbara BY SOURCING MOST OF OUR MATERIALS region.
In response to the introduction of Black Economic Empowerment BEE legislation AND LABOUR FROM THE COUNTRIES in South Africa, the implementation of our BEE Procurement Policy in 2003 has resulted in the IN WHICH OUR MINES ARE LOCATED.
proportion of the Companys spend with BEE-compliant suppliers increasing from 4 per cent 30 PER CENT OF OUR TOTAL SUPPLY to 36 per cent in four years.
SPEND IS WITH SUPPLIERS FROM THE Working together for a better environment LOCAL COMMUNITY OR REGION.
We aim to mine our products responsibly and supply them to those who demonstrate a similar commitment to responsible handling throughout the products life cycle.
We work with PHOTO: WA IRON ORE AUSTRALIA industry, consumer groups, government and non-government organisations to minimise the environmental, health and safety impacts of the production, use and disposal of our products.
Water scarcity impacts our operations and our local communities.
Our efforts to increase water efficiency, recycling and alternative supply options are helping to reduce the burden on local water courses and supply systems.
Even more broadly, we support the global scientific communitys concerns about climate change and our new Climate Change Policy commits us to accelerated action.
Annual Black Economic Empowerment Supply Spend 500 400 300 200 100 0 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 15 US$ million 2004 2005 2006 2007 Its our shared responsibility Healthy, productive and supportive communities are the key to a successful and sustainable business.
So we support health research activities that focus on issues affecting our global community, such as HIV AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
The Mozal Community Development Trusts program supports the manufacture of bed nets by widows and single mothers living near our Mozal aluminium smelter in Mozambique, distributing the mosquito nets to the local community.
Our support for malaria control in southern Africa was recognised with a Commendation for Business Excellence from the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
SIX YEARS AGO OUR MALARIA PROGRAM COVERED AN AREA OF 2 100KM.
THIS HAS GROWN TO 2 160,000KM OF LAND COVERAGE, PROTECTING MORE THAN FIVE MILLION PEOPLE AND REDUCING PREVALENCE OF THE DISEASE BY ALMOST 90 PER CENT.
PHOTO: MOZAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT TRUST MOZAMBIQUE BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 16
