5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 284 11 Glossary of terms continued Potential exposure of employees above the occupational 11.2 Mining and mining-related terms exposure limit Alumina Noise This indicator monitors potential employee exposure above the occupational exposure limit OEL for noise 85 dBA Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite 2 3 8-hour time-weighted average if not for the use of personal in the refining process.
Alumina is then converted reduced protective equipment recorded during the reporting period and in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
is expressed as a percentage of the workforce.
Bauxite Other This indicator monitors potential employee exposure Chief ore of aluminium.
above the occupational exposure limit OEL for occupational exposures other than noise if not for the use of personal protective Bio-leaching equipment recorded during the reporting period and is expressed Use of naturally occurring bacteria, to leach a metal from ore: as a percentage of the workforce.
for example, copper, zinc, uranium, nickel and cobalt from a Our Company-wide OEL is based on an external authoritative body sulphide mineral.
for most occupational exposures, the most stringent standards in existence are generally chosen.
Block caving A mass mining system where the extraction of the ore depends Return on capital employed on gravity.
By removing a thin horizontal layer at the mining level Earnings from operations, net of funding costs calculated as profit of the ore column, the vertical support of the ore column above after taxation, adjusted for a post-tax interest charge, divided by is removed and the ore then caves by gravity.
As broken ore is capital employed defined as attributable net assets, adjusted for removed from the mining level of the ore column, the ore above net debt which includes net debt of jointly controlled entities.
continues to break and cave by gravity.
Brownfield project Share A development or exploration project in the vicinity A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton.
Shareplus Copper cathode All employee share purchase plan.
Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate Significant environmental incident solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through A significant environmental incident is an occurrence that has leaching and electrowinning.
resulted in or had the potential to cause significant environmental harm.
Our definition of significant is conservative to ensure all Coal Reserves learnings are captured from relevant HSEC incidents.
Such an The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically concerning coal.
incident is rated at level 3 or above on the BHP Billiton HSEC Consequence Severity Table which may be viewed at: BHP Billiton Coking coal 2007 Full Sustainability Report Governance Our Approach By virtue of its carbonisation properties, is used in the manufacture Incident Reporting and Investigation.
of coke, which is used in the steelmaking process.
Coking coal may also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
Total Recordable Injuries Frequency Rate Total Recordable Injuries Fatalities Lost Time Cases Condensate Restricted Work Cases Medical Treatment Cases 1,000,000 A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural work hours.
underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid at Abbreviates to TRIFR.
Total shareholder return Crude oil The change in share price plus dividends reinvested.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural Abbreviates to TSR.
underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure after being produced at the well head and passing through surface Underlying EBIT margin separating facilities.
Calculated as Underlying EBIT as defined in section 3.6.
1 excluding third party EBIT, divided by Revenue together with jointly controlled Cut-off grade entities share of revenue, net of third party product revenue.
The lowest grade of mineralised material that qualifies as economic for estimating Mineral Resource or Ore Reserves.
US$ Currency of the United States of America and the currency Direct reduced iron DRI the BHP Billiton Group uses in publishing its consolidated Metallic iron formed by removing oxygen from iron ore without financial statements the formation of, or passage through, a smelting phase.
DRI can be used as feedstock for steel production.
Voluntary community contribution Contributions made to support communities in which we operate.
Dry gas Our contributions to community programs comprise cash, in-kind A mixture of hydrocarbon gases, inerts and other gases that support and administration costs.
Our targeted level of are in the gaseous phase at pipeline conditions with no free liquids contribution is 1 per cent of pre-tax profit.
It is principally composed of methane, ethane and low levels of propanes and butanes, depending upon processing and pipeline specifications.
284 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 285 Electrowinning electrowon Open-cut An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating Abbreviates to OC.
Ore Reserves Energy coal Part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal Petroleum coke may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
A residue from the refining of heavy fraction oil into light fraction oil.
Ethane Probable Ore Reserves Where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been Reserves for which quantity and grade and or quality are liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of ethane is computed from information similar to that used for proven approximately equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
measured reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and Grade measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content spaced.
The degree of assurance, although lower than that for in an orebody.
proven measured reserves, is high enough to assure continuity between points of observation.
Probable Reserves are derived Greenfield project from Indicated Resource.
The development or exploration of a new project not previously Proved Ore Reserves examined.
Reserves for which a quantity is computed from dimensions Heap leach ing revealed in outcrops, trenches and workings on drill holes and A process used for the recovery of copper, uranium and precious grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed metals from weathered low-grade ore.
The crushed material is laid samplings, and b the sites for inspection, sampling and on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly measurement are spaced so closely and the geological character trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the beds to is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
of reserves are well established.
Proved Reserves are derived from Measured or Indicated Resource.
Hot briquetted iron HBI Densified DRI, where the densification is carried out at a Proved oil and gas reserves temperature greater than 650C.
The resultant product has The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural 3 density greater than 5 g cm.
HBI can be used as feedstock gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with for steel production.
reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions Leaching i. e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made.
The process by which a soluble mineral can be economically Reserve life recovered from ore by dissolution.
Current stated ore reserves divided by current rate of production, Liquefied natural gas LNG or by nominal ROM production.
Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through Run of mine product chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
Product mined in the course of regular mining activities.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG Solvent extraction Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less than 2 per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
A method of separating one or more substances from a mixture by One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent to 11.6 barrels.
treating a solution of the mixture with a solvent that will dissolve the required substances, leaving the others.
Marketable Coal Reserves Represent beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product and Spud should be read in conjunction with, but not instead of, reports Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
Stockpile Metallurgical coal An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised coal is incomplete or temporarily unequal to handling the mine output: injection process.
any heap of material formed to create a reserve for loading or other purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
Oil and gas reserves Abbreviates to SP.
Those quantities of oil and gas that are anticipated to be legally and commercially recoverable from known accumulations as of the date of the reserve estimate.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 285 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 286 11 Glossary of terms continued Total Coal Reserves The combination of the Proved and Probable Ore Reserves which specifically concern coal.
Total Ore Reserves Represent Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
Underground UG Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Units of measure Abbreviation Description boe Barrel oil equivalent dwt Dry weight tonnes MMcf d Million of cubic feet per day Mbbl d Thousand barrels per day MMbbl d Million barrels per day mtpa Million tonnes per annum mw Megawatts scf Standard cubic feet tph Tonnes per hour 12 Tj TeraJoule 10 joules 286 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 287 12.
Shareholder information Contents page 12.1 Markets 289 12.2 Share ownership 289 12.3 Dividends 292 12.4 Share price information 292 12.5 Taxation 293 12.6 Ancillary information for our shareholders 295 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 287 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 288 288 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
