5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 145 Dear Shareholder The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to assess whether it continues to meet the needs of BHP Welcome to the Remuneration Report for the 2007 financial year.
Recruitment and retention of the As you will be aware, a number of senior management changes highly-skilled executives needed to deliver BHP Billitons strategy have been announced since the beginning of 2007.
Charles remain key priorities for the Committee.
During the next year, Chip Goodyear has decided to retire and, on 1 October 2007, we will revisit our incentive arrangements to make sure we are will be succeeded as CEO by Marius Kloppers.
Charles will step best placed to deliver on the imperatives of recruitment and down as an executive Director this year, but will stay employed retention, while ensuring that the interests of senior executives until 1 January 2008 to assist Marius with his transition program.
Chris Lynch retired on 31 August 2007, having stepped down as an executive Director on 30 June 2007.
John Fast will be On behalf of the Committee, thank you for your interest leaving later this month.
Details of the remuneration and in our Report.
leaving arrangements applicable to these individuals are set out in section 7.4 of this Report.
In 2006, shareholders approved the introduction of an all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, which allows employees to acquire shares up to the value of US$5,000 in John Buchanan any year.
These are then matched if the employee holds the Chairman, Remuneration Committee shares and remains in employment for a further three years.
6 September 2007 The initial take-up, following the launch in April 2007, was 33 per cent of eligible employees.
7.1 The Remuneration Committee 7.2 Reporting requirements The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability The senior management team of the Group during FY2007 was and transparency, and to ensuring that remuneration the Office of Chief Executive OCE.
In July 2007, the name of this arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and group changed to the Group Management Committee GMC.
Operating under delegated authority from the The role of the GMC is consistent with the role of the OCE Board, its activities are governed by Terms of Reference adopted as it operated throughout the year.
The names and titles by the Board in June 2006, which are available on our website.
of the members of the OCE who served during the year The Committee focuses on: are set out in section 7.4 of this Report.
Remuneration policy and its specific application to the CEO, Australian and International Financial Reporting Standards require the executive Directors and other executives reporting to the BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for key management CEO Office of Chief Executive OCE as well as the general personnel KMP.
KMP is defined as those persons having authority application to all our employees and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the The determination of levels of reward to the CEO, the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
executive Directors and other members of the OCE For the purposes of this Report, it has been determined that the Providing guidance to the Chairman on evaluating the KMP are the Directors and the members of the OCE who served performance of the CEO during FY2007.
In addition, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Effective communication with shareholders on the remuneration requires BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in respect of the policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board.
five highest-paid executives below Board level.
In FY2007, the five highest-paid executives below Board level were all members of the The members of the Committee during FY2007 were Dr John OCE and are, therefore, already included as KMP.
Buchanan Chairman, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, Dr David Jenkins and the Hon E. Gail fide Planque.
The Committee met seven times in 7.3 Remuneration policy and structure FY2007, and attendance at those meetings is set out in section 6.4.
At the invitation of the Committee, The Committee recognises that we operate in a global Mr Don Argus the Group Chairman, Mr Charles Goodyear the environment and that our performance depends on the quality CEO, Mr Marcus Randolph in his capacity as Chief Organisation of our people.
It keeps the remuneration policy under regular Development Officer and Ms Karen Wood in her capacity as review to ensure it is appropriate for the needs of the Group.
Chief Governance Officer and Group Company Secretary attended meetings except where matters associated with their own 7.3.
1 Key principles of our remuneration policy remuneration were considered.
Mr Derek Steptoe Vice President The key principles of our remuneration policy are to: Group Remuneration also attended meetings by invitation.
Provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain A report from the Committee and details of Board and Committee highly-skilled executives willing to work around the world performance appear in sections 6.4.
2 of this Apply demanding key performance indicators KPIs, including Annual Report.
financial and non-financial measures of performance The Committee has access to advice and views from those Link a large component of pay to our performance and the invited to attend meetings, as mentioned above, and can draw on creation of value for our shareholders services from a range of external sources including remuneration Ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate consultants.
A list of all consultants, together with the type of the deployment of human resources around our businesses services supplied and whether services are provided elsewhere Limit severance payments on termination to pre-established in the Group, is available on our website.
Kepler Associates LLP, contractual arrangements that do not commit us to making independent advisers to the Committee, supplies specialist unjustified payments.
They do not provide any other services to the Group.
The Committee is confident that these principles, which were applied in the year under review, and will be applied in FY2008 and beyond, continue to meet the Groups objectives.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 145 5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 146 Remuneration Report continued The remuneration paid and payable to members of the OCE The Committee believes that the KPIs set and the relative including executive Directors in respect of FY2007 is disclosed weightings given to the different categories of KPI effectively in this Report.
It comprises fixed and at risk components.
At the end of each year, manner in which these components are determined is outlined the performance level achieved against each KPI is measured in this section.
The actual remuneration paid and payable is set out and awards are calculated and paid according to the level in the tables in sections 7.5.
Remuneration paid to non-executive Directors is set out in section Long-term incentives, in the form of Performance Shares, 7.6.
2. are awarded annually under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The diversified natural resources industry is capital intensive, cyclical 7.3.
2 Service contracts and long term.
Outstanding performance comes from accessing It is our policy that service contracts have no fixed term, but are high-quality resources, successfully developing new projects and capable of termination on 12 months notice and that we retain the maintaining efficient and safe operations.
The Committee believes right to terminate the contract immediately by making a payment that in this environment, success can best be measured by our equal to 12 months base salary and retirement benefit contribution Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the TSR in lieu of notice.
All members of the OCE have service contracts see of an index of a peer group of companies weighted 75 per cent section 7.4.
5 of this Report for full details.
These contracts typically to mining and 25 per cent to oil and gas the Index.
outline the components of remuneration paid, but do not prescribe The Performance Hurdle applicable to the awards granted in how remuneration levels are to be modified from year-to-year.
December 2006, and to those to be granted in December 2007, 7.3.
3 Fixed remuneration requires BHP Billitons TSR over a five-year performance period to be greater than the weighted average TSR of the Index.
To the Fixed remuneration is made up of base salary, retirement extent that the Performance Hurdle is not achieved, awards are and other benefits.
It represents approximately 34 per cent forfeited.
of the individuals remuneration package based on target performance and using Expected Values for share awards.
For all Performance Shares to vest, BHP Billitons TSR must exceed the weighted average TSR of the Index by a specified percentage, Base salary is targeted at industry average levels for comparable determined each year by the Committee.
Since the establishment roles in global companies of similar complexity and size.
Market of the LTIP in 2004, this percentage has been set each year at data are used to benchmark salary levels and to inform decisions 5.5 per cent.
This annual amount equates to exceeding the on base salary changes.
Base salaries are set by reference to the weighted average TSR of the Index over the five-year performance scope and nature of the individuals performance and experience, period by more than 30 per cent.
For performance between the and are reviewed each year.
The review takes into account any weighted average TSR of the Index and 5.5 per cent per annum change in the scope of the role performed by the individual, any above the Index, vesting occurs on a sliding scale.
changes required to meet the principles of the remuneration policy and our market competitiveness.
In the event that the Committee does not believe that BHP Billitons TSR properly reflects the financial performance of the Group, it retains Retirement benefits for new entrants are delivered under defined the discretion to lapse the Performance Shares.
It is anticipated that contribution plans.
All defined benefit plans are now closed to new such discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances.
Employees who participate in these legacy defined benefit plans continue to accrue benefits in such plans for both The maximum award that may be made to a participant in any past and future service unless they have opted to transfer to a one financial year is limited by the rules of the LTIP to an award defined contribution plan.
with an Expected Value of twice their annual base salary.
Expected Value has been used because it enables the Committee Other benefits include health insurance, relocation costs, life to set total target remuneration levels for the CEO and his direct assurance, car allowances and tax advisory services as applicable.
reports, taking into account the degree of difficulty of the LTIP All such benefits are non-pensionable.
Performance Hurdle and the consequent probability of awards 7.3.
4 At risk remuneration vesting, together with ensuring that awards are externally competitive.
It can be defined as the average outcome weighted At risk remuneration is geared to Group performance and is by probability, and takes into account the difficulty of achieving made up of short-term and long-term incentives.
It represents performance conditions and the correlation between these and approximately 66 per cent of the individuals remuneration share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology also takes package based on target performance and using Expected Values into account factors including volatility and forfeiture risk.
Participants of the GIS and the LTIP are eligible to receive a Short-term incentives are delivered annually under the Group payment equal to the dividend amount that would have been Incentive Scheme GIS.
Awards under the GIS are split equally earned on the underlying shares represented by the Deferred between a cash award being a percentage of base salary and Shares, Options and Performance Shares awarded to those a grant of Deferred Shares and or Options to encourage employee participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
The Dividend retention and share ownership.
These Deferred Shares and or Equivalent Payment is made to the participants once the Options are subject to a two-year vesting period before they underlying shares are issued or transferred to them.
No Dividend can be exercised.
If, during that period, an individual resigns Equivalent Payment is made in respect of Deferred Shares, Options without the Committees consent, or is dismissed for cause, their and Performance Shares that lapse.
entitlement to them is forfeited.
Members of the OCE each have a target cash award of 70 per cent of base salary and a maximum 7.3.
5 Share ownership guidelines award of 105 per cent.
Participation in the GIS and the LTIP is approved by the Committee, The GIS incentivises employees to achieve annual goals linked to and participants may be required to hold a minimum number of the business strategy, budget and personal objectives.
Measures BHP Billiton shares Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR, are set to reflect the critical KPIs of the Group in a combination the level of which is determined by the Committee, throughout of financial and non-financial areas.
The key Group measures in their period of participation in the schemes.
The current MSR FY2007, and in FY2008, are Health and Safety, Shareholder Value for the CEO and his direct reports is 50 per cent of one years Added and Net Present Value Added.
In addition, each member base salary on an after-tax basis, calculated using the year-end of the OCE has personal KPIs based on their key area of BHP Billiton share price.
Members of the OCE have approximately 80 per cent Group-based measures and 20 per cent personal measures.
In light of Mr Goodyears planned retirement as CEO on 30 September 2007, and from the Group on 1 January 2008, his personal measures will be weighted toward the CEO transition.
