Information on the Company continued A special transport permit will be required under the NonThe Takeovers Act, therefore, affects BHP Billiton Limited and its Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear material from subsidiaries in two ways.
First, because BHP Billiton Limited is an one specified location to another specified location.
As we engage Australian incorporated company, it may affect the right of nonservice providers to transport uranium, those service providers are Australian residents, including US residents, to hold ordinary required to hold a special transport permit.
shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
It will not affect the voting or other rights attached to those shares if they are acquired or held in 2.8.
3 Exchange controls accordance with the terms of the Takeovers Act.
Second, because at 30 June 2007, BHP Billiton Limited and it subsidiaries are BHP Billiton Plc considered foreign persons for the purposes of the Takeovers Act, There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the UK that BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiaries must apply to the Treasurer restrict the export or import of capital or the remittance of for prior approval under the Takeovers Act before certain activities dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
are undertaken, including the acquisition of shares in Australian However, there are certain sanctions adopted by the UK companies, meeting the thresholds described above.
Government implementing resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations against certain countries, entities and Under the Corporations Act 2001 Cth, residents and nonindividuals, including senior officials of the previous Government residents of Australia must not, subject to certain exceptions, of Iraq and their immediate families and those linked with the acquire a relevant interest in shares in a listed company or an Taliban and Al Qaeda and other terrorist organisations.
unlisted company with more than 50 members if this will result in a persons voting power increasing to more than 20 per cent, or There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of increasing from a starting point that is above 20 per cent and Association or under English law that limit the right of nonbelow 90 per cent.
Those restrictions, and the applicable resident or foreign owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
provisions contained in the UK takeover code, are also entrenched in the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of BHP Billiton Limited Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Reserve Bank of Australia does not inhibit the import and export of funds, and no permission is required by BHP Billiton There are no other statutory or regulatory provisions of Australian Limited for the movement of funds in and out of Australia.
law or ASX requirements that restrict foreign ownership or control However, certain Australian foreign exchange and other controls of BHP Billiton Limited.
are in place against certain countries, entities and individuals, including, individuals or entities linked with the Taliban, Al Qaeda 2.9 Employees and other terrorist organisations, senior officials of the previous Government of Iraq and their immediate families, individuals and The foundation of our business is our people: the base of our entities associated with the regime of former President of strategic drivers refer to section 3.2 Our strategy.
Shortages of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, and certain ministers and senior skilled labour throughout the resources industry worldwide is officials of the Government of Zimbabwe.
The controls impose creating severe competition for the available talent and attracting certain approval and reporting requirements on transactions and retaining the people we need is a key focus of the Company.
involving such countries, entities and individuals and or assets To ensure we are well positioned in this competitive environment, controlled or owned by them.
in January 2007, we codified our human resource strategy and Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by BHP management standards.
The purpose of the Human Resources Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds Strategy is to connect our values and culture as defined by the securities are not restricted by exchange controls or other BHP Billiton Charter and our business requirements to the way we limitations, save that in certain circumstances, BHP Billiton may manage our people and assess human resources performance.
In be required to withhold Australian taxes.
order to be successful, we must identify, recruit, train, develop and retain a talented, diverse, mobile and motivated workforce.
To There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or continue to deliver value to our shareholders as a global company, under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, to the right of nonwe need the broad range of ideas and experiences of all our residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares other people, customers, communities and suppliers.
We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships The Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Cth the with our employees, based on the values of the BHP Billiton Takeovers Act applies to an acquisition by a foreign person of an Charter.
This includes earning the trust of employees by being interest in the shares of an Australian company with total assets forthright in our communication, consistently delivering on of A$100 million or more, which results in the acquisition of or commitments, and maintaining an equal opportunity work addition to a substantial interest in the Australian company.
We aim to be consistent, fair and However, as a result of the US Free Trade Agreement transparent in our recruitment, assessment and promotion of Implementation Act 2004 Cth, at 1 January 2007, this threshold is people.
The precise nature of our relationships is generally increased to A$871 million for investments in non-sensitive sectors determined locally, but is consistent with BHP Billitons Charter, the for investors from the United States.
The threshold for investments Human Resources Strategy and relevant legislative requirements.
in sensitive sectors such as banking and media is A$100 million All assets are required to develop a proactive employee relations for investors from the United States, although investments in plan which is consistent with our values and local needs.
The sensitive sectors that occur by way of an offshore takeover of commitment to this openness in communication with our a company that holds Australian assets or conducts a business employees is reiterated in our Directors Report section 8.8 of this in Australia and the Australian assets or businesses are valued Annual Report.
at less than 50 per cent of the foreign companys total assets, an A$200 million threshold applies to investors from the As at 30 June 2007, we had 38,540 employees working in over United States.
25 countries and more than 100 operations worldwide including all employees working in our jointly controlled entities.
We also A substantial interest is defined to be any single foreign person have an estimated 60,000 contractors worldwide.
Our workforce and its associates controlling 15 per cent or more, or two or more represents a wide assortment of countries and cultures.
A significant foreign persons and their associates in aggregate controlling 40 proportion of our employees are located in Australia 44 per cent, per cent or more, of shares or voting power.
Accordingly, any southern Africa 31 per cent and South and North America proposed acquisition that would result in these thresholds being 20 per cent.
exceeded must be notified to the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia in advance of the acquisition.
