3 Risk management governance structure 6.6 Risk management The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance structure and system of internal control is to manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders Board investments and safeguarding assets.
Governance Document Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes and independent controls to provide assurance to the Board and Risk Management the RAC as to the integrity of our reporting and effectiveness of our Policy systems of internal control and risk management.
The governance assurance diagram in section 6.1 highlights the relationship between Risk Management Standards the Board and the various controls in the assurance process.
Some of the more significant internal control systems include Board and management committees, CSG RACs, the Enterprise-Wide Risk Risk Management Guidelines and Toolkits Management System EWRM and internal audit.
CSG Risk and Audit Committees 6.6.
1 Approach to risk management The CSG RACs assist the RAC to monitor the Groups obligations in relation to financial reporting, internal control structure, risk We believe that the identification and management of risk management systems and the internal and external audit functions.
is central to achieving the Corporate Objective of delivering long-term value to shareholders.
Each year the Board reviews Each half year, the President and CFOs of each CSG and each and considers the risk profile for the whole business.
This risk of the Marketing, Shared Services Centres and Treasury functions profile covers both operational and strategic risks.
must review internal controls and provide formal representations to the Group Financial Controller, which are noted by the The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management to applicable CSG RAC, assuring compliance with our policies the RAC.
In addition, the Board specifically requires the CEO and procedures and confirming that internal control systems are to implement a system of control for identifying and managing risk.
These representations are summarised and provided The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have been to the RAC.
established for this purpose and regularly review their effectiveness.
The Group operates an Enterprise-Wide Board Committees Our Risk Management Risk Management System EWRM that Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, Policy can be found at provides an over-arching and consistent www.
com the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
framework for the assessment and aboutus governance.
Risks are ranked Management Committees using a common methodology.
Where a risk is assessed as Management Committees also perform roles in relation to risk material it is reported and reviewed by senior management.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes During the year the Risk Management Policy was reviewed in our business environment are regularly reviewed by the Office and changes approved.
of Chief Executive OCE now the Group Management Committee and discussed by the Board.
2 Business risks Committee FRMC reviews the effectiveness of internal controls The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which relating to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact risk, financing risk, interest rate risk and insurance.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results the OCE and the FRMC are provided to the Board.
The Investment and performance include: Review Committee IRC provides oversight for investment fluctuations in commodity prices processes across the business and coordinates the investment fluctuations in currency exchange rates toll-gating process for major investments.
Reports are made to the Board on findings by the IRC in relation to major capital projects.
failure to discover new reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations influence of China and impact of a slowdown in consumption 6.7 Management actions by governments and political events in the countries Except for those matters that the Board has reserved for its in which we operate own decision-making, the CEO holds delegated authority from inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses the Board to achieve the Corporate Objective.
The CEO has inability to recover investments in mining and oil and gas projects developed an approvals framework which delegates authority to non-compliance to the Groups standards by non-controlled assets management Committees and individual members of management.
operating cost pressures and shortages Notwithstanding those further delegations, the CEO remains impact of health, safety and environmental exposures and accountable to the Board for the authority delegated to him.
related regulations on operations and reputation 6.7.
1 The Office of Chief Executive and Group unexpected natural and operational catastrophes Management Committee climate change and greenhouse effects The senior management team of the Group was the Office of inadequate human resource talent pool Chief Executive OCE.
In July 2007 the name of this group was breaches in information technology security changed to the Group Management Committee GMC.
The role breaches in governance processes.
of the GMC is consistent with the role of the OCE as it operated throughout the year.
The role of the OCE was to provide advice to the CEO on matters that are strategic and long term in nature or have the potential to significantly impact our business.
The OCE determined key business-wide policies, including the Charter, Guide to Business Conduct, the Sustainable Development Policy, the Human Resources Strategy and the Risk Management Policy.
