5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 295 UK inheritance tax Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 will be taxable An individual who, under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, is a US holder to you at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally and is domiciled in the US and not domiciled in the UK will not at a maximum rate of 15 per cent provided that the US Holder be subject to UK inheritance tax on the disposal of the ordinary holds the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day shares or ADSs by way of a gift or upon the individuals death period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date, and meet if the individual is domiciled, or deemed to domiciled in the UK other holding period requirements.
In the case of a corporate US for inheritance tax purposes.
The exception to this is where the holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed as ordinary income ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a and will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction UK permanent establishment of the individual US holder or pertain generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends to a UK fixed base of an individual who performs independent received from other US corporations.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings Special rules apply to ADSs held in trust.
and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, In all other cases, UK inheritance tax may apply to the gift of will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent the ordinary shares or ADSs or on the individuals death.
The UK of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter Estate Tax Treaty provides a credit mechanism where an individual as a capital gain.
is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, but gift tax.
generally will for taxable years beginning before 1 January 2007, UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax be passive income or financial services income or, for taxable years beginning after 31 December 2006, passive or general Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the transfer of income, which in either case is treated separately from other types ordinary shares to the depository or their nominee where those of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit shares are for inclusion in the ADSs.
The current rate of stamp duty allowable to a US holder.
reserve tax is 1.5 per cent on the purchase price or market value of the transferred shares.
Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs Transfer of the ADSs will not give rise to stamp duty if the A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and remains or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income outside the UK.
tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and its tax basis, determined in US dollars, Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other than the depository in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The capital gain of a non-corporate or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty or stamp duty reserve US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2011 is generally tax at the time of transfer.
The relevant rate is currently 0.5 per taxed at a maximum rate of 15 per cent where the holder has cent of the amount payable for the shares.
The purchaser normally a holding period greater than 12 months.
The gain or loss will pays the stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates and tax credit limitation purposes.
US taxation 12.6 Ancillary information for our shareholders This section describes the material US federal income tax Information for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
shareholders this year is provided in the BHP Billiton Group Annual It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital Report 2007 and the Annual Review 2007. assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class The Annual Review contains key information about the BHP Billiton Group in a summary format.
The Annual Report provides the of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market method detailed financial data and information on the BHP Billiton Groups performance required to comply with the reporting regimes in of accounting for their securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, a life insurance company, a person liable for Australia, UK and the US.
alternative minimum tax, a person who actually or constructively The summary financial statements and accompanying notes owns 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, cannot provide as full an understanding of the financial a person who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle performance, position and funding and investing activities of the or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a US holder whose BHP Billiton Group as the complete financial statements included functional currency is not the US dollar.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and This section is based in part upon the representations of the BHP Billiton Plc will receive the Annual Review unless they have opted to receive the Annual Report.
ADR holders may view both Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed in documents online at www.
com or opt to receive a hard copy by application to the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs Change of shareholder details will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented Banking arrangements When you close your account or by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs otherwise change your banking arrangements, it is essential for ordinary shares will generally not be subject to US federal you notify the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar of your income tax.
Dividends Change of address It is important that shareholders notify the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar immediately if there Under the US federal income tax laws, a US holder must include in their gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by is a change to their registered address.
Shareholders on the BHP Billiton Limited CHESS sub-register should forward the change BHP Billiton Plc out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
of address advice to their sponsoring broker, quoting the Holder Identification Number HIN.
The dividend is taxable to the holder when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives Dematerialised holdings under STRATE South African shareholders who hold shares dematerialised into STRATE should the dividend, actually or constructively.
contact their CSDP or stockbroker regarding the customer service items mentioned above.
Shareholder information continued Enquiries Key dates for shareholders Shareholders wishing to contact BHP Billiton on any matter The following table sets out key dates in the next financial relating to their share or ADR holdings are invited to telephone and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there are the appropriate office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar listed any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
see section 12.1 will be notified.
Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details Date Event online via BHP Billitons website www.
The website requires you to quote your Shareholder Reference Number SRN 28 September 2007 Payment date for Final Dividend or HIN in order to access this information.
25 October 2007 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting Access the Annual Review or Annual Report on the web in London Venue: We offer an alternative for shareholders who wish to be advised The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, of the availability of the Annual Review and Annual Report Broad Sanctuary, through our website via an email notification.
By providing an Westminster, email address through our website, shareholders will be notified London SW1P 3EE by email when the Annual Review and Annual Report have been Time: 10.30am local time released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of other major Details of the business of the meeting are BHP Billiton announcements by email.
If you require further contained in the separate Notice of Meeting information or you would like to make use of this service, please enclosed with this Annual Report visit our website www.
ADR holders and holders 28 November 2007 BHP Billiton Ltd Annual General Meeting of shares dematerialised into STRATE should approach the in Adelaide appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar.
Venue: Adelaide Hilton Centre, 233 Victoria Square, Adelaide SA 5000 Time: 10.30am local time Details of the business of the meeting are contained in the separate Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report 6 February 2008 Interim Results Announced 29 February 2008 Interim Dividend Record Date 18 March 2008 Interim Dividend Payment Date 13 August 2008 Annual Results Announced 296 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
