5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 12 9 07 3:25 PM Page 163 The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from a breach was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date by the Group under the engagement terms: and are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party as Further information about this plan and its closure are set out a result of reliance on information provided by the Group that in section 7.6.
is false, misleading or incomplete.
We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay 8.5.
3 OCE members to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant to The table contained in section 8.20 of this Annual Report sets Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 out the relevant interests held by members of the OCE other than of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we Directors in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at otherwise agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy the beginning and end of FY2007, and at the date of this Annual also insures Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees Report.
Interests held by members of the OCE under share and against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur in option plans are set out in the tables showing interests in incentive carrying out their duties for us.
plans contained in section 7.5 of this Annual Report.
Further details of all options and rights held as at the date of this Report We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance including those issued during or since the end of FY2007, and of US$2,882,500 net during FY2007.
Some Directors, Secretaries of shares issued during or since the end of FY2007 upon exercise and employees contribute to the premium for this insurance.
of options and rights, are set out in note 31 Key management personnel in the financial statements in this Annual Report.
8.8 Employee policies and involvement Members of the OCE did not participate in the off-market buy-back described in section 8.2 of this Annual Report.
We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships with our employees based on the values of our Charter and aligning the interests of employees with those of our shareholders.
8.6 Secretaries Our approach is to encourage and maintain effective communication Up to 11 July 2007, Ms Karen Wood was the Chief Governance and consultation between employees and management through Officer and Group Company Secretary.
From 11 July 2007, a range of approaches and tools as appropriate to the local Ms Jane McAloon was appointed as Group Company Secretary.
To facilitate global communications, we have a Details of the qualifications and experience of Ms Wood and dedicated communications support team, which manages the Ms McAloon are set out in section 5.0 of this Annual Report.
release of information to employees across the world.
In addition The following people also act as the Company Secretaries of to the regular production and communication of operational and either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, and report to global newsletters, bulletins and staff news releases, employees Ms Jane McAloon: Mr Robert Franklin, MA, ACIS, Company Secretary are also provided with regular briefings by senior management of BHP Billiton Plc, Ms Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons ACIS, Deputy on important issues such as our strategy, performance and health, Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc, Mrs Ines Watson, ACIS, Senior safety and environmental matters.
Assistant Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc, Mr Ross Mallett, We also provide information about issues of relevance to JD BBus FCIS FCPA and Ms Fiona Smith, BSc LLB ACIS, Joint Deputy employees through our intranet and email facilities and other Company Secretaries BHP Billiton Limited.
Each such individual has media, including newsletters suitable to the local environment.
experience in a company secretariat role arising from time spent These are all important tools for gaining employee feedback and in such roles within BHP Billiton or other large listed companies.
increasing awareness of corporate and safety performance and other critical industry and operational issues.
Other consultative 8.7 Indemnities and insurance methods are in place to address issues impacting employees, and in addition, grievance or dispute resolution procedures apply Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 in all businesses.
of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each All our employees can access our Annual Reports and other Director, Secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton Limited and key publications via the intranet or hard copy.
BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability incurred in, or arising All employees are invited to participate in the Shareplus out of, the conduct of the business of the Company or the all-employee share purchase plan or, where local regulations limit discharge of the duties of the Director, Secretary or executive its operation, cash equivalent schemes.
The Directors named in section 5.0 of this Annual Report, are described in section 7.5.
the executive officers and the Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, Incentive and bonus schemes also operate across the Group, as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
which include targets relating to our overall financial and other performance.
In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access The means by which we communicate with shareholders and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective is described in section 6.2 of this Annual Report.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party indemnity We have published our commitment to equality in employment provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 UK.
in the Equality in Employment Policy and the Guide to Business We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and Conduct and the Human Resources Management Standards.
hold harmless an employee who, while acting in good faith, We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
Decisions are based on aptitudes and abilities, In addition, where a person chairs a Customer Sector Group Risk and not on attributes unrelated to job performance including and Audit Committee, and that person is not already indemnified disability.
Should employees become disabled during employment, as an officer or a Director, a policy is in place to indemnify that they will be considered for available work within their capabilities, chairperson in the same manner as our officers are indemnified.
For the purpose of training, This policy has been approved by the Board.
career development and promotion, disabled employees are treated in the same way as other employees, although reasonable From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, modifications will be made to the physical work environment and to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services other arrangements made as appropriate to meet particular needs in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services arising from a disability.
The terms of engagement include an indemnity in favour of KPMG: BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 163
