Key activities during the year BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies In November 2006 the CEO accepted the findings of the internal are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American review into the matters raised by the Royal Commission of Inquiry Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
established by the Australian Government into certain Australian companies in relation to their involvement with the United Nations We have reviewed the governance requirements currently Oil-for-Food Programme and adopted the recommendations of the applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley internal review.
The conclusions reached by the internal review Act US, including the rules promulgated by the Securities and were consistent with the findings of the Commissioner that there Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and are satisfied was no breach of law by the BHP Billiton Group.
The internal review that we comply with those requirements.
recommended that a number of actions be taken to enhance our Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual has instituted systems and processes and these actions have been implemented.
a broad regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules foreign private 9.
Market disclosure issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities disclosure by ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same access to high-quality, relevant information in an Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10A-3 and certain notification provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Company accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
A Disclosure Committee manages our compliance with Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires us to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate market disclosure obligations and is responsible for implementing reporting processes and controls and setting guidelines for the governance practices differ from those followed by US-listed companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
Following a comparison of our corporate governance practices Disclosure Officers have been appointed in each of the Groups with the requirements of Section 303A of the NYSE Listed CSGs and functional departments.
These officers are responsible Company Manual that would otherwise currently apply to for identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with foreign private issuers, the following differences were identified: material information about the activities of the CSG or functional Our Nomination Committee Charter does not include the areas using disclosure guidelines developed by the Committee.
purpose of developing and recommending to the Board a set To safeguard the effective dissemination of corporate governance principles applicable to the corporation.
A copy of the of information we have developed a Market Disclosure We believe that this task is integral to the governance of the Market Disclosure and Communications and Communications Group and is therefore best dealt with by the Board as a whole.
Policy is available at Policy which outlines how we identify and Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires www.
com distribute information to shareholders and NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees aboutus governance.
are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which unless the companys governing law or documents or other we are listed, investor briefings, half yearly financial statements, home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders the Annual Report and other relevant information are posted to to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC the Groups website at www.
Any person wishing is directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of the to receive advice by email of news releases can subscribe at External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment www.
and retention of External Auditors rests with our shareholders, in accordance with UK law and our constitutional documents.
Conformance with corporate governance The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board standards on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
Our compliance with the governance standards in each of While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with the jurisdictions in which we operate is summarised in this the governance requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, it Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Report recognises that practices and procedures can always be improved, and the financial statements.
and there is merit in continuously reviewing its own standards The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Boards program companies to report on the extent to which they comply with of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which are contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code, and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The Listing Rules of the Australian Securities Exchange require Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which they meet the Principles and Recommendations published by the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Council as part of its Principles of Good Corporate Governance ASX Principles and Recommendations and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
Both the Combined Code and the ASX A checklist Principles and Recommendations require summarising our the Board to consider the application compliance with the UK Combined Code and of the relevant corporate governance the ASX Best Practice principles, while recognising that Recommendations has departures from those principles are been posted to the appropriate in some circumstances.
website at We have complied with the provisions www.
com set out in Section 1 of the Combined aboutus governance.
Code and with the ASX Principles and Recommendations throughout the financial period and have continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Review.
