Its the way we share knowledge and expertise Our BHP Billiton way A recent Business Excellence While the commodities we produce are many and varied, and the locations of our assets project focused on increasing spread far and wide, the issues and challenges that hinder performance can often be the ore feeding rate to two kilns remarkably similar.
Sharing knowledge, expertise and ideas across our operations, therefore, at our Cerro Matoso ferronickel is vital.
We use a series of networks to help us identify and share successful practices for the mining and smelting complex benefit of everyone across the Company.
The solutions Different locations, same values implemented not only increased the ore feed rate, The values, standards, policies and processes that we apply to the behaviour and actions of but also reduced both the gas our people at one operation are the same as those applied at any other part of the business, consumption in the kilns and regardless of geography or culture.
This consistent philosophy helps us to ensure the health the energy consumption in the and safety of our employees, as well as governing the way we work with customers and electrical furnaces.
The resulting other stakeholders and the way we manage investment decisions.
cost savings generated an Our Charter values provide the overriding guide for how we work.
They outline our major additional US$23 million EBIT.
commitments as an organisation commitments to health, safety, environment and community responsibility: integrity in what we do and what we say we will do: high performance: relationships that focus on the creation of value for all parties: the courage to lead change: and respect for each other.
The real benefits of Business Excellence MORE THAN 6,000 OF OUR TECHNICAL Our Business Excellence program runs company-wide and helps us to encourage and apply EXPERTS ACROSS THE WORLD SHARE best practice across the broad spread of our businesses and corporate functions.
In doing so, THEIR IDEAS AND BEST PRACTICES we can increase revenues, decrease costs and improve operational efficiency.
THROUGH MORE THAN 300 VIRTUAL The program establishes an excellence cycle, which requires every business to regularly COMMUNITIES THAT WE OPERATE evaluate performance, examine opportunities for improvement and measure the resulting GLOBALLY.
THIS MAKES US MORE financial benefits.
EFFICIENT AND ENSURES GOOD IDEAS Crucially, the program ensures that successful improvements are shared across all our assets ARE SPREAD ACROSS THE ORGANISATION.
through knowledge-sharing networks and Communities of Practice CoPs.
This is where the real benefits of the Business Excellence program are demonstrated.
We are running 300 CoPs PHOTO: MELBOURNE OFFICE AUSTRALIA throughout the Company, with more than 6,000 technical experts sharing their ideas and best practices electronically, by telephone and in dedicated workshops.
When our team at New Mexico Coal in the US wanted to increase output by improving the use of conveyors, they contacted the conveyor maintenance CoP.
Within 24 hours, operations from around the world provided the New Mexico team with improvement ideas that were quickly put in place.
Improvement projects just like this deliver significant financial benefits every year in every business.
