Information on the Company continued We continue to pursue opportunities and build our position in 2.4 Marketing prospective developing countries, including diamonds in Angola Our customer-focused Marketing group manages the sale and and the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, and copper in the delivery of our products.
Marketing activities are centralised in DRC, Mongolia and Kazakhstan.
In nickel, we have a major nearSingapore and The Hague.
These two centralised marketing teams mine exploration program focused on finding new nickel sulphide incorporate all the functions required to manage product deposits to sustain and grow our existing operations in Western marketing and distribution, from finished goods production takeAustralia.
We are also actively exploring for nickel in the Philippines, on to final customer delivery, designed around the CSG.
In addition Russia, China and Africa.
In the bulk commodities, activities are to these centralised marketing teams, many specialist marketers focused on a smaller number of highly prospective terrains in and logistics employees are located in 21 other regional network Australia, South America, West Africa and Southeast Asia.
offices at strategic locations around the world being close to the Our exploration activities are organised from six principal offices market and understanding the environment in which we operate.
in Singapore, Perth Australia, Johannesburg South Africa, Our major network offices are in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul, Jakarta, Moscow Russia, Rio fide Janeiro Brazil and Vancouver Canada.
Delhi, Pittsburgh, Houston, Johannesburg and Rio fide Janeiro.
Product structuring also forms part of the core capabilities of the In addition to our corporate exploration function, several of our marketing effort.
Our Energy Marketing EM group also trades CSGs undertake exploration activities, principally aimed at a variety of energy-related products as described below.
delineating and categorising mineral deposits at existing operations.
In addition to our commodities marketing desks, we provide a centralised freight trading and logistics service to the Group.
In FY2007, we spent US$410 million on minerals exploration.
Of this, US$139 million was spent by the corporate function and Energy Marketing US$271 million was spent at the CSG level.
Energy Marketing was set up in July 2002, with the responsibility of coordinating our marketing activities in the energy commodity 2.6 Global Technology markets, namely coal, gas, emissions credits and electricity and uranium oxide.
The group is based in The Hague and is part of our Global Technology activities cover the full spectrum of our value marketing function.
chain from exploration tools, mining and processing technologies and environmental solutions through to ensuring our customers EM is currently active in purchasing and selling third party physical have the technical support available in the use of our products.
gas and small amounts of electricity in the UK and emissions Our goal is to deliver technologies into our businesses that deliver credits in Europe.
Where required, EM also buys or sells pipeline long-term growth, provide a competitive advantage and maximise capacity to transport gas onto the UK gas grid.
are transacted over the counter and are  transactions in the wholesale market.
Global Technology activities cover the following areas: exploration, mining and mine optimisation Freight Trading and Logistics leaching and remediation We have a centralised ocean freight business that manages our minerals separation and hydrometallurgy in-house freight requirements.
process engineering technical marketing The primary purpose of the freight business is to create intellectual property competitive advantages through the procurement and operation of quality and cost-effective shipping, and to contribute to our Technical innovation is becoming increasingly important to support profitability by trading freight and carrying complementary our low-cost production strategy.
To maintain our reserves, we are external cargoes.
currently developing technologies to treat complex lower-grade ores, technologies that will enable us to mine minerals at deeper The freight business participates primarily in the dry bulk sector levels, and tools to improve our mine planning capabilities.
We aligned with our major trades, and handles approximately also apply our knowledge and fundamental understanding of our 115 million tonnes of cargo per year.
At any one time, we have products and how they perform in the customers process to best approximately 120 ships employed, making the Group one of the serve our chosen markets and provide innovative customer worlds largest users of dry bulk shipping.
The vast majority of solutions.
vessels are chartered under various commercial terms and the business holds equity interest in a small number of vessels.
Working alongside the CSGs and Minerals Exploration, the Global External freight revenue was approximately US$724 million for Technology team aim to understand future trends and develop FY2007.
both existing and new technologies that can identify, evaluate and maximise the value of deposits.
With Diamonds and Specialty The freight business is based in The Hague, where it is an integral Products, they identify and develop technologies that can enable part of the Marketing group.
Smaller Melbourne and Singaporeentry into new businesses.
based groups are in place to directly support Australian and Asian shipping activities.
Global Technologys portfolio of projects is selected on the basis of providing technical solutions that have cross-commodity benefits.
In addition to its freight management and trading activities, the Mine optimisation tools are an example of such a technical freight business incorporates a skill base to manage its marine risk solution.
Drawing on sophisticated mathematics, the mine and provide technical support.
It holds a number of marine-related planning optimisation software enables our businesses to operate investments, including a shareholding in shipping risk manager existing infrastructure more efficiently.
Mine planning optimisation Rightships of Melbourne.
software is used to determine ultimate pit sizes and pit development plans that deliver maximum value over the life of the 2.5 Minerals exploration mine, as well as evaluating the optimal processing configuration.
Our exploration program is integral to our growth strategy and is Protecting our intellectual property rights, such as patents, focused on identifying and capturing new world-class projects for copyrights, trade secrets and confidential information, is a critical future development, or projects that add significant value to component in the successful development and exploitation of our existing operations.
Targets for this Group are generally large lownew technical innovations.
We have a dedicated in-house team cost mining projects in a range of minerals, including diamonds, that identifies and manages intellectual property issues of copper, nickel, bauxite, iron ore, manganese and coal.
The process significance in a way that is consistent with our strategy.
of discovery runs from early-stage mapping through to drilling and evaluation.
The program is global, and prioritises targets consistent with our assessment of the relative attractiveness of each mineral.
