Corporate Governance Statement continued Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2007 Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability 1 A B A B A B A B A B Paul Anderson 10 9 4 4 Don Argus 10 10 6 6 David Brink 10 10 9 9 3 3 John Buchanan 10 8 6577 Carlos Cordeiro 10 10 7 7 David Crawford 10 10 9 9 E Gail fide Planque 10 10 7644 Charles Goodyear 8 8 David Jenkins 10 10 9 9 7 7 Marius Kloppers 8 8 2 Chris Lynch 8 6 Jacques Nasser 10 9 9 8 3 Miklos Salamon 3 2 John Schubert 10 9 6 6 4 4 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
1 Includes meetings which considered CEO succession with only non-executive Directors present.
2 Chris Lynch retired from the Board on 30 June 2007.
3 Miklos Salamon retired from the Board on 26 October 2006.
2 Re-election a proven track record of creating shareholder value unquestioned integrity At least one-third of Directors retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Directors are not appointed for a fixed term but must a commitment to the highest standards of governance submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after three years.
having the required time available to devote to the job The period that Directors have served on the Board and the years strategic mind set, an awareness of market leadership, in which they were first appointed and last elected are set out outstanding monitoring skills in section 5.1. a preparedness to question, challenge and critique The Board has determined that non-executive Directors who have an independent point of view.
served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to their first election must stand for re-election annually starting shareholders for election at the first Annual General Meeting from the first Annual General Meeting after the expiration of following their appointment.
Retiring Directors who are 6.5 Board Committees seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Following that appraisal, The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, authority, including monitoring the performance of the business to makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring gain assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse a Director for Objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
The permanent re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
Committees of the Board are the Risk and Audit Committee, the The Board will advise shareholders in the Notice of Meeting Sustainability Committee, the Nomination Committee and the whether or not re-election is supported.
Other Committees are formed from time to time to deal with specific matters.
3 Renewal Each of the permanent Committees has The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance The Terms of Reference Terms of Reference under which authority of the Nomination Committee.
In doing this, the Board: for each Committee is delegated by the Board.
considers the skills, knowledge and experience necessary can be found at: www.
com to allow it to meet the strategic vision for the business The office of the Company Secretary aboutus governance.
provides secretariat services for each assesses the skills, knowledge and experience currently of the Committees.
Committee meeting represented agendas, papers and minutes are made available to all members identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a scrutiny of the Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use candidate is selected that brings those traits whatever resources they consider necessary to discharge reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both their responsibilities.
at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position specification that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation retained to conduct a global search.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the specification contains criteria such as: 136 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 137 6.5.
1 Risk and Audit Committee report The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor during its term of appointment against specified criteria, The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met nine times during the including delivering value to shareholders and ourselves.
Its members are Mr David Crawford Chairman, Dr David The RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity Brink, Dr David Jenkins and Mr Jacques Nasser all of whom are of the External Auditor.
This review includes: independent non-executive Directors.
The Board has nominated confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, Mr David Crawford as the Committees financial expert.
independent of the Group Role and focus obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all relationships between the External Auditor and the Group The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group and to gain monitoring the number of former employees of the External Auditor currently employed in senior positions and assessing assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate Objective within the CEOs limits.
The RAC undertakes this whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence by overseeing: considering whether the various relationships between the the integrity of the financial statements Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence and performance of the external auditor and the integrity of determining whether the compensation of individuals the audit process as a whole employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is the performance and leadership of the internal audit function tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk this impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors management judgement or independence compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements reviewing the economic importance of the Groups business compliance by management with constraints imposed to the External Auditor and assessing whether that by the Board.
importance impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence.
CSG Risk and Audit Committees To assist management in providing the information necessary The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, separate Risk We have a policy governing the and Audit Committees have been established for each of the This Policy on Provision conduct of non-audit work by the of Other Services by the Customer Services Groups CSG and key functional areas.
Under the Non-Audit External Auditor can These Committees, known as CSG RACs, have been established Services Policy the External Auditor be viewed at and operate as committees of management but are chaired www.
com cannot provide services where the by members of the RAC or by other external appointees with aboutus governance.
External Auditor: appropriate skills and experience.
They perform an important may be required to audit its own work monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
participates in activities that would normally be undertaken Management reports on significant matters raised at CSG RAC by management meetings to the RAC.
is remunerated through a success fee structure acts in an advocacy role for our business.
Activities undertaken during the year Integrity of financial statements Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year for audit and other services were US$17.9 million, of which The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of 59 per cent comprised audit-related fees, 37 per cent relating the financial statements.
The RAC evaluates and makes to other legislative requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness 4 per cent other services.
Details of the fees paid are set out in of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, note 4 Expenses to the financial statements.
compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that It reviews the half yearly and annual financial statements the External Auditor is independent.
and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions including formal adoption of the financial statements and Internal audit reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the The Internal Audit function is carried out internally by Group integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time Audit Services GAS.
The role of GAS is to determine whether the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the risk management, control and governance processes are release of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit function is and the financial community.
independent of the External Auditor.
The Boards RAC reviews the mission and charter of GAS, the staffing levels and its The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2007 financial scope of work to ensure that it is appropriate in light of the statements present a true and fair view, in all material key risks we face.
It also reviews and approves the annual respects, of our financial condition and operating results internal audit plan.
and are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the External Auditor Vice President Risk Management and Assurance and assesses The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor his or her performance, independence and objectivity.
The role on behalf of the Board.
It recommends to the Board potential of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance includes auditors for appointment and the terms of engagement, achievement of the internal audit objectives: enterprise-wide including remuneration.
In December 2003, the Board, on risk management systems, risk management information the recommendation of the RAC, approved the appointment systems and insurance strategy.
The position is held by of KPMG.
Shareholders are asked to approve reappointment Mr Stefano Giorgini.
Mr Giorgini reports to management of the auditors each year in the UK.
and has all necessary access to management and the right to see information and explanations, and has unfettered access to the RAC.
Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness of systems of internal control and communicated to the members of the Office of Chief Executive risk management and Executive Committee, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established CEO limits in the Board Governance Document.
One of the We conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures are limits is to ensure that there is a system of control in place for effective in providing that reasonable assurance.
In reaching identifying and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, that conclusion we recognise that any controls and procedures, review the systems that have been established for this purpose no matter how well designed and operated, have the inherent and regularly review their effectiveness.
limitation that they can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that: The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management and reviews the internal controls and risk management systems.
the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures In undertaking this role the RAC reviews the following: are met procedures for identifying business risks and controlling all control issues and instances of fraud, if any have occurred, their financial impact on the Group and the operational have been detected.
effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to Further, when designing and evaluating possible disclosure risk and control controls and procedures for the Group, our management is the budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting required to apply its judgement with respect to the relevant systems and controls costs and benefits of the various internal controls.
policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, During the year, the Group undertook a major process initiative reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of over its financial processes and systems which have led to business conduct and whistle-blowing procedures enhanced controls over financial reporting.
In all other respects, procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory there have been no changes in our internal control over and legal requirements financial reporting as that term is defined by the Securities arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other Exchange Act during the year ended 30 June 2007 that have non-physical assets materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the operational effectiveness of the CSG RAC structures our internal control over financial reporting.
overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and Assessment of RAC performance allocation of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls During the year the Committee assessed its performance in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of that policies, information systems and procedures for preparation and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock assessment the Committee is satisfied it has met the RAC Terms of Reference.
exchanges and the financial community.
For further discussion on our approach to risk management 6.5.
2 Remuneration Committee report refer to section 6.6 in this Statement.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year.
During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the Its members are Dr John Buchanan Chairman, Dr David Jenkins, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the the Hon Gail fide Planque and Mr Carlos Cordeiro.
All of the financial year and up to the date of this Review in accordance Committee members are independent non-executive Directors.
with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Mr Gordon Clark of Kepler Associates acts as an independent Turnbull Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations adviser to the Committee.
published by the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Council.
These reviews covered financial, Role and focus operational and compliance controls and risk assessment.
The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its The review was overseen by the RAC with findings and oversight of: recommendations reported to the Board.
In addition to the remuneration policy and its specific application to the considering key risks facing the Group, the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over CEO, the executive Directors and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application to all employees key risks identified through the work of the Board Committees.
The Board is satisfied that the effectiveness of the internal the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans controls has been properly reviewed.
the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval of reward to the CEOs direct reports CEO and CFO certification the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial by giving guidance to the Chairman statements are founded on a sound system of risk management the communication to shareholders on remuneration policy and internal compliance and that the system is operating and the Committees work on behalf of the Board, including efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion During the year the RAC reviewed our response to the in the Annual Report obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements particular, progress in evaluating and documenting internal associated with remuneration matters.
controls as required by section 404 of the Act, which is applied to the business in the year ended 30 June 2007.
Activities undertaken during the year The CEO and CFO, along with the management team, have Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 7. performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of During the year the Committee assessed its performance 30 June 2007.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of to provide reasonable assurance that the material financial that assessment the Committee is satisfied that it has met and non-financial information required to be disclosed is the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference.
recorded, processed, summarised and reported on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated and 138 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 139 6.5.
4 Sustainability Committee report The Nomination Committee met six times during the year.
The Sustainability Committee met four times during the year.
The members of the Committee are Mr Don Argus Chairman, The current members of the Committee are Dr John Schubert Dr John Buchanan and Dr John Schubert.
All members of the Chairman, Mr Paul Anderson and the Hon Gail fide Planque.
Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Dr John Schubert replaced Dr David Brink as Role and focus Chairman in March 2007.
Following a review of its performance, The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the Board the Committee revised its Terms of Reference during the year and its membership.
The Committee also assessed its is comprised of individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the highest performance as required in its Terms of Reference and is satisfied that it is meeting the Terms of Reference.
It does so by focusing on: reviewing the skills represented on the Board and identifying Role and focus skills that may be required The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board retaining the services of independent search firms and in its oversight of: identifying suitable candidates for the Board our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory overseeing the review of the assessment of the performance requirements associated with health, safety, environment of individual Directors and making recommendations to and community matters the Board on the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking our performance in relation to health, safety, environment re-election refer to section 6.4.
2 of this Statement and community matters communicating to shareholders on the work of the Committee the performance and leadership of the health, safety on behalf of the Board.
and environment function and the sustainable Activities undertaken during the year development function There were significant changes to the composition of the Board health, safety, environment and community risks during the year.
The CEO, Mr Charles Goodyear, indicated his our Annual Summary Sustainability Report intention to resign as CEO toward the end of September 2007. communication to shareholders on the work of the Committee Mr Marius Kloppers will be appointed CEO from 1 October on behalf of the Board.
Mr Miklos Salamon resigned as an executive Director in October 2006 and Mr Chris Lynch resigned as an executive Sustainable development governance Director in June 2007.
The Committee retained the services Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development of Heidrick & Struggles and Egon Zehnder to assist in the governance is characterised by: identification of potential candidates for the Board.
the Sustainability Committee overseeing the health, safety, environment and community HSEC matters across the Group business line management having primary responsibility and accountability for HSEC performance the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, as well as through a series of networks across the business seeking input and insight from external experts such as our Forum for Corporate Responsibility clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
Activities undertaken during the year During the year the Sustainability A copy of the Summary Committee considered the Groups and Full report can be Climate Change Policy, reports on found at HSEC audits, reviewed the Groups www.
performance against the HSEC public targets and the Key Performance Indicators for the HSEC and Sustainable Development functions.
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the Vice President Health, Safety and Environment and the Vice President Sustainable Development.
The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the annual Sustainability Summary Report for publication.
The Sustainability Summary Report identifies our targets for health, safety, environment and community matters and its performance against those targets.
