Information on the Company continued The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment of 2.11 Material contracts the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Cth Takeovers DLC agreements Act or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer.
If BHP Billiton Limited wishes to act differently to the conditions, it must As noted in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Report, the DLC structure obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
Failure to comply with was implemented on 29 June 2001, and the following DLC the conditions attracts substantial penalties under the Act.
Agreements were entered into upon completion of the DLC arrangement: Equalisation of economic and voting rights the Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders the Special Voting Shares Deed have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton the BHP Deed Poll Guarantee Group.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share the Billiton Deed Poll Guarantee.
in one Company relative to the economic and voting interests of a The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which share in the other Company is determined by reference to a ratio they operate are described in detail in section 2.10.2 of this Annual known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and Report.
It is expected that these agreements will remain in effect voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and until such time as a change in control of the Group may occur.
each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its 2.12 Constitution shareholders and no matching action was taken.
The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited share is Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton of BHP Billiton Plc are, so far as possible, identical for ease of Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice versa.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used in this Company has insufficient profits or is otherwise unable to pay the description of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as be read to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
far as practicable, enter into such transactions as are necessary so The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of as to enable both Companies to pay the amount of pre-tax Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only be amended where such dividends per share.
amendment is approved as a Class Right Action a description of Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited Class Right Actions is contained in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association special Report.
A resolution in respect of a Class Right Action is voted on voting arrangements have been implemented so that the separately by the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP shareholders of both Companies vote together as a single Billiton Plc and is only passed if 75 per cent of the votes cast at the decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders of general meetings of Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc each Company in similar ways such matters are referred to as respectively are in favour of the resolution.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio 2.12.1 Directors remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint The management and control of the business and affairs of BHP Electorate Actions.
Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which, in addition to the powers and authorities conferred on it by the Constitution and In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of Articles of Association, may exercise all powers and do everything shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class that is within the power of BHP Billiton, other than what is Rights Actions, the Company wishing to carry out the Class Rights required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton in a general Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other meeting.
Company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval of its own shareholders voting separately.
2.12.2 Power to issue securities These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of documents of the two Companies, the Sharing Agreement, the Association, issue any shares or other securities with preferred, Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to a specially deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions as and created Special Voting Share issued by each Company and held in when the Directors may determine and on any other terms the each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares in the Special Directors consider appropriate, provided that any such issue: Voting Companies are held legally and beneficially by Law does not affect any special rights conferred on the holders of any Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
shares: and is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder approval in the Cross guarantees Constitution and Articles of Association, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a and the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the expressed at the date of issue.
benefit of the Deed Poll Guarantees will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were owed by 2.12.3 Power to vote where materially interested both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal Restrictions on takeovers of one Company only interest.
A Director shall not be counted at a meeting in relation to The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc any resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that a person cannot gain control of one Company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both Companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
52 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 53 2.12.4 Power to vote in relation to compensation remuneration 2.12.7 Rights attaching to shares Subject to the provisions of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Dividend rights and the United Kingdom Companies Act, a Director is entitled to Under law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits vote, and be counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution available for distribution.
The Constitution and Articles of concerning any of the following matters, namely where the Association provide that payment of any dividend may be made in material personal interest: any manner, by any means and in any currency determined by the arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and Board.
is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by the arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director of Board for the benefit of BHP Billiton until claimed or otherwise BHP Billiton disposed of according to law.
relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any Voting rights obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders shareholders arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given an is in the first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to the indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, to BHP Billiton election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting : arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above the Chairman any shareholder under the law or relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, the holder of the BHP Special Voting Share.
but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the first body corporate the insurer instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body demanded by any of the following: corporate in respect of a permitted indemnity, as defined the Chairman under law, or any contract relating to such an indemnity or not less than five members present in person or by proxy and is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit entitled to vote of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely a member or members present in person or by proxy and because the Director is a Director of a related body corporate.
representing not less than 5 per cent of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting or 2.12.5 Borrowing powers the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which the repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton be decided on a poll.
or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested.
In terms of actual borrowing power, the Board may entrust to any On a show of hands, every shareholder present, except the holder Director holding any executive office any of the borrowing powers of the Billiton Special Voting Share, has one vote.
Where a exercisable under the Constitution or the Articles of Association.
shareholder has appointed more than one person as representative, proxy or attorney for that shareholder, none of the 2.12.6 Retirement of Directors representatives, proxies or attorneys are entitled to vote on a show Currently, a person who has attained the age of 70 may by special of hands.
On a poll, however, votes may be given either personally resolution be appointed or reappointed as a Director of BHP or by proxy.
Billiton to hold office until the conclusion of BHP Billitons next Annual General Meeting.
A person who has attained the age of Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits 70 during that persons tenure as a Director may continue to act as The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, as a Director during the period that starts on the day on which they regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, turn 70 and ends at the conclusion of the first Annual General are as follows: Meeting of BHP Billiton after that day.
We are, however, seeking The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority shareholder approval at our 2007 Annual General Meetings to to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of amend the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Articles of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends Association of BHP Billiton Plc to remove the requirement that up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
Directors cannot be appointed beyond the age of 70 unless the Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, appointment is approved by a special resolution of shareholders.
but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes The proposed removal of this rule is consistent with the of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Shares shall be entitled Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 UK and the Age to be paid such dividends as are declared.
The Board will continue to have a Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions shall policy that requires a non-executive Director who has served on be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares the Board for nine years from the date of their first election to and the BHP Special Voting Share in equal amounts per share.
stand for annual re-election from the first Annual General Meeting after the expiration of their current term.
In relation to retirement generally, at every general meeting one third of the Directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest to but not less than one-third, must retire from office.
The Directors to retire are those longest in office since last being elected.
As between Directors who were elected on the same day, the Directors to retire are determined by lot in default of agreement between them.
Further, a Director must retire from office at the conclusion of the third Annual General Meeting after which the Director was elected or re-elected.
Information on the Company continued Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits 2.12.9 Redemption The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue any to the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as preference shares, the preference shares may be issued on the follows: terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of either or The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, the annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, Board determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
if any such date shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in The preference shares are to confer on the holders: England, on the first business day following such date in each the right on redemption and on a winding up to payment in year.
Payments of Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount on the register at any date selected by the Directors up to paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the 42 days prior to the relevant fixed dividend date.
preference shares ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference of any dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other dividends and classes of shares, the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association of shares and the Billiton Special Voting Share, but in priority to any BHP Billiton Plc.
payment of dividends on all other classes of Shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such 2.12.10 Capital calls dividends as the Board may decide to pay thereupon.
Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions under the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all the above distributions shall be payable to the holders of the monies unpaid on their shares.
Each shareholder is liable to pay BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton the amount of each call in the manner, at the time and at the place Plc ordinary share.
A call is considered to have been made at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was 2.12.8 Liquidation passed.
On a return of assets on liquidation, the assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution among shareholders, 2.12.11 Changes to rights of shareholders after giving effect to the payment of all prior ranking amounts Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either BHP Billiton owed to all creditors and holders of preference shares, shall be Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied where such variation applied in paying to the holders of the BHP Special Voting Share is approved both: and the Equalisation Share an amount of up to A$2.00 on each by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a special such share, on an equal priority with any amount paid to the resolution and holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any surplus by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either at remaining shall be applied in making payments solely to the a special meeting by resolution passed by not less than threeholders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance with quarters of the holders present at the meeting and by voting, or their entitlements.
in writing signed by the holders of at least three-quarters of the Subject to the payment of prior ranking amounts owed to the issued shares of that class.
creditors of BHP Billiton Plc and prior ranking statutory The Board may determine that the resolution to be passed by the entitlements, the assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a relevant Company is either a Class Rights Action or a Joint winding up shall be distributed to the holders of shares in the Electorate Action, and accordingly the resolution may need to be following order of priority: passed by the shareholders of both BHP Billiton Limited and to the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the BHP Billiton Plc.
repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or Various rights attaching to all shares issued by either BHP Billiton credited as paid up on the cumulative preference shares held by Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied where such variation them and accrual, if any, of the Preferential Dividend whether is approved as either a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated up Action, depending on the type of right to be varied.
The to the date of commencement of the winding up Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the of BHP Billiton Plc set out those rights that may only be varied as a holders of the Billiton Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Class Rights Action, and those rights that may only be varied as a Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining after the Joint Electorate Action.
distribution under the previous bullet point above of an equal amount for each Billiton ordinary share, the Billiton Special For a description of a Class Rights Action and a Joint Electorate Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to a Action, refer to the information under the heading Equalisation of maximum in the case of the Billiton Special Voting Share and the economic and voting rights in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Report.
Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid up on such These conditions are more significant than is required by Australian shares.
and UK law to the extent that the Board determines the relevant resolution is either a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate Action.
