5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 7 Sustainability 1.3 CEOs Report The continuing success and sustainability of our Company is The 2007 financial year continued the positive trend in global heavily dependent on securing and maintaining our licence to economic growth that has provided the backdrop for the operate, wherever we do business around the globe.
We work performance of BHP Billiton in the past several years.
This trend, actively on securing and maintaining our licence to operate combined with the emergence of the developing economies, through the ethical conduct of all our people, our determination has allowed the Company to generate another outstanding set to keep our people healthy and safe, our efforts to improve the of operating results and record financial performance.
quality of life of the communities in which we operate and the Global demand for our products has enabled us to benefit from protection of the environment.
our high-quality asset base and from our decisions over the past However, we are facing many challenges.
More than 10 years ago seven years to reinvest in our business through organic projects BHP Billiton began to set targets to manage and control the gas and acquisitions.
As a result, we have set annual production emissions from and energy usage by our operations.
Over the past records in eight commodities.
FY2008 is expected to be another year the call for precautionary action to reduce greenhouse gas year of strong volume growth with the continued ramp-up of a emissions has become loud and universal.
This year we again number of projects and the commencement of production from reviewed and reassessed our commitment to tackling climate new projects across our businesses.
The result is an updated policy that not only sets new Global supply of commodities, which are essential for economic aggressive targets for emissions and energy reduction and and social development, continues to lag growth in demand and commits increased funds to finding technological solutions we expect this situation to continue.
This means commodity prices, but promises to work in partnership with various organisations while volatile, are expected to exceed long-term averages and, to better understand and manage our impacts, and the impact together with record volumes, should continue to contribute to of our products, on climate change.
the outstanding financial success of BHP Billiton.
The health and safety of our people and communities, stewardship As a leader in the global resources industry, we remain well-placed of the products we sell and our work in developing communities to respond to continuing demand growth and have demonstrated are all areas that continue to challenge us, but it is critical we during the year our capacity to bring on-line major new sources of get these right in order to preserve and enhance our licence to supply, such as the new Spence copper operation in northern Chile, operate.
The ability to meet the strong demand for our and commit to further major expansions of operations such as commodities requires that we have a positive impact on those at our iron ore business in Western Australia.
When we see value we encounter through our business activities.
in a potential acquisition we are able to act, as we did during the Companies that develop the skills, resources and relationships financial year when we purchased an interest in the Genghis Khan to meet these challenges will thrive and prosper.
Our long-term oil and gas development in the Gulf of Mexico, adding to our oil success is contingent on our ability to manage our business in and gas production capacity from this new financial year, and a sustainable fashion.
But to find truly effective and sustainable announced a one-third interest in an alumina project in Guinea, solutions will require others to engage in the challenge.
not do it alone: it is a shared responsibility that we have with We continue to identify and evaluate numerous other project our host nations, local communities, our people, our partners options that can be brought on-line as global demand grows in the and our industry.
Our track record in delivering 33 world-class projects Farewell across the globe over the past six years is a testament to the capabilities of our people, and we remain committed to developing I have had the enormous privilege of leading the worlds largest projects in line with the approved budgets and schedules while diversified resources company for the past five years.
BHP Billiton acknowledging the current cost and labour pressures.
After five plays a central role in providing the raw materials essential to years of continual growth, expansion and development, we are still support economic and social development.
The aspirations of able to say we have an inventory of future project options billions of people for a better quality of life depends on access to unparalleled in the global resources industry.
raw materials at a reasonable cost.
To be part of an organisation that realises its critical role in making a difference to billions We also remain well-placed to manage the challenges created by of people around the world has truly been a great honour.
increasing demand for commodities and are determined to retain our competitive position in meeting demand.
Those challenges No organisation is successful without talented and dedicated include shortages of skilled employees and essential equipment, people.
At BHP Billiton I have been fortunate to have had the escalating costs of the labour and raw materials required to opportunity to work with an outstanding group of people from construct projects and maintain operations, the intense all over the world.
I would like to thank all our employees and competition for the rights to develop new resources and the contractors for their commitment and efforts and for their difficulties associated with accessing resources in increasingly contribution to the success of BHP Billiton.
I will leave knowing remote and sometimes challenging parts of the world.
that the Company is well positioned for the years ahead and will continue to prosper and succeed through its next phase of growth.
In meeting these challenges we have been able to draw on the My successor, Marius Kloppers, has been a valuable contributor to diversity and breadth of our people and our business, combined the organisation in many roles and will be an outstanding Chief with robust and evolving systems and processes that ensure we Executive Officer.
I wish Marius, the executive team and all the are sharing our skills and experiences across all of our assets and members of the BHP Billiton family all the best for the years ahead.
I am very proud to be part of a truly global organisation characterised by a senior management team drawn from many parts of the world.
As some of the most experienced people in the global resources industry, they lead an organisation drawn from many countries.
This diversity and depth of talent, combined with our geographic spread of assets and diversity of commodities and markets gives us a significant competitive advantage through Chip Goodyear the economic cycle.
