Accountability Delegation Corporate Governance Statement 1.
Governance at BHP Billiton BHP Billitons Corporate Objective is to create long-term value This statement outlines our system of governance.
Shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural are reminded that we operate as a single economic entity under resources and the provision of innovative customer and a Dual Listed Company DLC structure with a unified Board and market-focused solutions.
We have primary listings in Australia and the UK and are registered in the US and listed on the New York Stock In pursuing the Corporate Objective, we have committed to Exchange NYSE.
In formulating our governance framework, the highest level of governance and strive to foster a culture the regulatory requirements in Australia, the UK and the US that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal have been taken into account, together with prevailing standards and corporate integrity and respect for others.
Where governance principles vary across these Our approach to governance is predicated on the belief that jurisdictions the Board has resolved to adopt what we consider there is a link between high-quality governance and the creation to be the better of the prevailing standards.
Our expectations of employees and those It is our view that governance is not just a matter for the Board, to whom we contract business are set out in our Guide to a culture of good governance must be fostered throughout Business Conduct.
Don Argus, Chairman BHP Billiton Governance Assurance Diagram Board Board Governance Document Nomination Risk & Audit Sustainability Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer Management Governance and Assurance External Auditors Key Policies Key Processes Charter Group Management Committee Guide to Business Conduct Financial Risk Management Committee Group Audit Approvals Framework CSG and Asset Appraisals Services Anti Trust Protocol CSG RACs Contracts and Commitments Enterprise Wide Risk Management Risk Management Stewardship Reviews HSEC Sustainable Development Management Representation Letters Audits Portfolio Risk Management Market Risk Management Committee Governance Framework Disclosure Committee Securities Dealing Code Investment Review Committee Peer Reviews Market Disclosure and Communications Investment Evaluation Standard Major Projects Non-Audit Services Financial and Management Reporting Information Management HSEC Management Standards Financial Accounting Global Ethics Panel Ore Oil Gas Investment Human Resources Strategy and Standards Reserves Review Human Resources The Dual Listed Structure means that Annual General Meetings 2.
Shareholder engagement of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited are held in the United The Board represents the Groups shareholders and is Kingdom and Australia around late October and November, accountable to them for creating and delivering value through respectively, each year.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the effective governance of the business.
Shareholders vote on the Annual General Meetings and to use these opportunities to important matters affecting the business, including the election ask questions.
Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by of Directors, changes to our constitutional documents, the receipt completing the relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting of annual financial statements and incentive arrangements for or by emailing the Group at investor.
Questions that have been lodged ahead of the meeting, and the answers to them, are posted to our website.
The External Auditor Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to us attends the Annual General Meetings and is available to answer and to raise directly any matters of concern.
Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically through regular meetings with institutional shareholders and investor our website.
The Notice of Meeting describes how this can be done.
representatives to discuss governance matters and keeps the Board informed of the views and concerns that have been raised.
The Chief Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important briefings are Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and investor broadcast live from our website.
Copies of the speeches delivered relations team regularly meet with institutional shareholders to by the Chairman and CEO to the Annual General Meetings, a discuss our strategy, financial and operating performance.
summary of the proceedings and the outcome of voting on the items of business are posted to our website following both Meetings.
34 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 Independent Assurance
