Sustainability Report continued Our approach 4.9 Social responsibility We continue to voluntarily spend one per cent of our pre-tax Our values profits on a three-year rolling average on community investment As a resources company, our social licence to operate and grow programs to ensure our host communities share in our success.
depends on the responsible operation of all aspects of our Our assets have formal processes in place to effectively engage business, including our ability to work effectively with the with our host communities to understand their expectations, communities in which we operate.
Responsible social performance aspirations and perceptions of how we are performing.
We have also has the potential to create competitive advantage and reduce also developed a set of competencies for our community relations business costs.
Community goodwill can mitigate the risk of practitioners that will enhance our approach to recruiting and interruptions to our business, facilitate regulatory approvals, professional development in this area, and we are continuing enhance our reputation as a responsible and caring employer, our relationship with Oxfam to deliver community development and help to position us as the company of choice, even in areas training programs.
where we may not have previously operated.
Continuing our prudent approach to risk management, we have Stakeholder expectations developed a guidance document on conducting environmental Companies have always been required to act in accordance and social impact assessments, as well as a simple, but what we with laws and regulations.
Today, companies are also facing believe to be effective, human rights self-assessment tool that heightened public scrutiny: and increasingly, our social and will assist sites to identify their exposures to human rights related moral obligations are being shaped by stakeholders expectations.
issues, such as security and resettlement, and to manage the In addition, laws and regulations continue to change to reflect risks accordingly.
Based on the work of the International Council of Mining and As the worlds largest diversified resources company, we have Metals, we have developed and are trialling a methodology potential exposures to human rights related issues and these to measure the socio-economic contributions of our assets.
may present us with challenges.
Nevertheless, upholding peoples We expect this methodology to be available for use in 2008. fundamental rights in our day-to-day business is paramount.
Our Employee Matched Giving Program continues to support We are hearing that we need to continue our focus on ensuring employees who make individual contributions to their communities transparency in all our community investment programs, by enabling their personal donations, volunteer time or funds particularly in countries where we do not have significant raised to be matched by the Company.
We also understand our responsibility to fulfil our Our performance community commitments and obligations in these communities, even if our exploration or development projects do not become During FY2007 our voluntary investment in community programs operational businesses.
We must take care to invest in social totalled US$103.4 million, comprising cash, in-kind support and programs that will contribute to long-term sustainable administration costs.
This amount equates to 1.1 per cent of development and will not create dependency.
pre-tax profit three-year rolling average, which meets our target of 1 per cent.
For the period FY2003 to FY2007, our total Our industry continues to face the challenge of improving investment in community programs exceeded US$330 million.
evaluation and measurement of our social and community projects, and our longer-term socio-economic impacts.
In FY2007, BHP Billiton employees personally donated or fundraised around US$1.8 million and contributed 69,000 hours of volunteering Finally, employees are telling us that they enjoy being offered in their own time.
Some 880 not-for-profit organisations worldwide opportunities to participate in the Companys social responsibility benefited from their efforts.
BHP Billiton matched employee efforts activities, and that they appreciate the Company supporting them by providing around US$2.4 million to these charities.
in their own personal community contributions.
In line with our HSEC targets, all sites required to do so prepared a Stakeholder engagement site-based public HSEC reports and 97 per cent of sites required to Sites are required to have community relations plans that have community relations plans have them in place.
Going forward, address the social elements of our HSEC Management Standards.
these requirements will be incorporated into our HSEC Management We operate community investment programs at four levels across Standards and thus be subject to HSEC auditing requirements.
the Company local, provincial or regional, national and global During the year, 43 of our sites received a total of 543 complaints, with the majority of expenditure occurring at the local and a decrease from 603 in 2006. regional levels.
We typically partner with government or NGOs To our knowledge there were no transgressions of the principles to deliver community programs together we have the necessary of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
To assist sites resources, experience, skills and expertise to do so.
to appraise their potential exposure to human rights issues, Our Forum on Corporate Responsibility continues to provide we have introduced a target for all sites to undertake a human valuable advice and challenges senior managements views rights self-assessment and implement a risk-based human rights on broad sustainable development issues.
We foster knowledge management plan by 30 June 2008.
Similarly, all sites are to have sharing through our internal Global Community Network.
a formal community engagement plan in place by 30 June 2008.
We work closely with Indigenous peoples to best plan how to avoid or minimise impacts on cultural heritage values.
We support the community efforts of employees through our global Employee Matched Giving Program.
We remain committed to upholding the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in all our activities, and we continue to support the objectives of the UN Global Compact and Millennium Development Community Contributions by Goals.
While these initiatives are directed to nations, we recognise Program Category 2006 07 that many nations will only meet their commitments with the support of the private sector.
Community Development 30% Other 21% Education 19% Health 18% Environment 5% Arts 4% Sport Recreation 3% 116 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
