Its our record production Our world-class assets Our Cerro Matoso mine in With around 100 operating assets across the globe, we produce a range of commodities.
Colombia is one of the worlds We are the only diversified resources company that produces a full suite of energy products richest lateritic nickel deposits.
oil, gas, coal and uranium as well as having industry-leading positions in minerals such Our mining concessions and as alumina, copper, nickel, iron ore and metallurgical coal.
exploration rights span A diversified global footprint 77,000 hectares of the Colombian nickel belt, We have a world-class portfolio of assets, reflecting our strategy to focus on large assets that will continue producing over many decades at low cost, thereby ensuring that we estimated to be capable of sustaining production for remain profitable throughout the inevitable economic cycles.
Our portfolio also meets our overriding strategic requirement an asset base which is diversified by commodity around 30 years.
The smelter produces high-quality and geography, so that we have a natural buffer against downturns in any particular commodity or region.
ferronickel and can produce around 55,000 tonnes of Many of our operating assets are in Australia.
Our Western Australian operations produce contained nickel each year.
nickel, iron ore, alumina and petroleum products, while our operations in eastern Australia produce both metallurgical and thermal coal.
In South Australia, our Olympic Dam asset produces copper, uranium and gold.
Another of our more concentrated regions is southern Africa, home to our aluminium smelters, titanium dioxide interest and significant thermal coal operations.
Heading west across the Atlantic, we operate several copper mines and a nickel mine in South America, where we also have interests in alumina, aluminium and thermal coal operations.
Our diversified global footprint also encompasses a diamond mine, EKATI, in northern Canada, and petroleum assets in the Gulf of Mexico, Pakistan, Algeria, Trinidad and Tobago OUR STRATEGY IS BASED ON UPSTREAM, and the United Kingdom.
LARGE, LONG-LIFE, LOW-COST, EXPANDABLE, EXPORT-ORIENTED From production to delivery ASSETS THAT ARE DIVERSIFIED BY With an emphasis on upstream assets, we produce and sell mainly raw materials and COMMODITY AND GEOGRAPHY.
products in their basic stages of processing.
These products are sold primarily to overseas customers and transported by ship.
Each of our operating assets is supported by complex infrastructure.
This infrastructure ensures that we can move sufficient amounts of earth, then process and transport the raw material in the most efficient way.
Around the world, our infrastructure assets include the railway and ports that we manage to ensure a seamless production process from mine to ship, and the petroleum rigs that draw on cutting-edge technology to allow us to drill for gas and oil in increasingly deep water.
Stretching the boundaries In a strong commodities market our objective is to run our assets at full capacity and keep stretching the boundaries.
The quality of our assets means that, in many cases, we can continue to increase their output in a safe and sustainable manner.
In financial year 2007, we achieved production records across eight commodities.
Record annual production was achieved at 17 operations including the North West Shelf petroleum operation, the Worsley alumina operation and the iron ore operations in Western Australia.
Records were also achieved at the GEMCO manganese mine on Groote Eylandt, Queensland Coal, Hunter Valley Coal and Illawarra Coal Bed Methane, all in Australia.
The Mad Dog petroleum operation in the Gulf of Mexico, Zamzama in Pakistan, Alumar in Brazil, Paranam in Suriname, the Hillside and Bayside aluminium smelters and Samancor manganese operation in South Africa, the Mozal aluminium smelter in Mozambique, the massive Escondida copper mine in Chile and Cerrejon Coal in Colombia, all achieved record annual production.
