Shareholder information continued Payments 12.3 Dividends BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends Policy paid directly into a nominated bank, building society or credit We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily union, depending on the shareholders country of residence as increase or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars at each shown below.
half yearly payment provided that we generate sufficient profit and cash flow to do so.
Country where shareholder is resident Financial institution Because the US dollar is our main reporting currency, we declare Australia Bank, building society, our dividends and other distributions in US dollars.
BHP Billiton credit union Limited pays its dividends in Australian dollars, British pounds UK Bank, building society sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars depending on the New Zealand Bank country of residence of the shareholder.
BHP Billiton Plc pays its dividends in British pounds sterling to its shareholders registered US Bank on its principal register in the United Kingdom and South African rand to its shareholders registered on its branch register in South Shareholders from the abovementioned locations who do not Africa.
If shareholders wish to alter the currency in which they provide their direct credit details and shareholders with registered receive dividends they must complete an appropriate election form addresses outside Australia, UK, New Zealand and US will receive and return it to the BHP Billiton Share Registrar no later than two dividend payments by way of a cheque in Australian dollars.
days prior to the announcement of the next dividend.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate form which is available from the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in the UK or South Africa.
12.4 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the Australian and London stock exchange respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
b Under the terms of the DLC structure, for each existing BHP Billiton Limited share held on 5 July 2001, the holder was entitled to 1.0651 additional BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Accordingly, historical share prices have been restated to reflect this charge.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 30 June 2007 was A$117.6 billion, which represented approximately 7.19 per cent of the total market capitalisation of all companies listed on the ASX.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on such date was A$35.03.
