5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:55 PM Page 267 Notes to the BHP Billiton Plc unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet 1 Principal accounting policies different to those in which they are taxable or deductible for corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are i Basis of Accounting measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance with differences are expected to reverse.
the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP using the historical cost v Share-based payments convention and have been applied on a consistent basis with the year The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out ended 30 June 2006. in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted over BHP Billiton ii Foreign currencies Plc shares including those granted to employees of other Group The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in companies.
However, the cost of rights and options granted is note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the participants are employed.
Details of the Employee Share Ownership Plans and the iii Investments Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust are Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for contained in note 27 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton impairments.
Details of the terms and operation of the plans are set out in section 3.4 of the Remuneration Report.
BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure carrying amounts do sponsoring company and so the financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
The carrying amount of represent the combined financial statements of the Company and each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually to evaluate the Trust.
whether the carrying amount is recoverable or more regularly if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount vi Revenue recognition of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the asset is determined to be Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income impaired, an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
down based on the amount by which the asset carrying amount exceeds the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in vii Treasury shares use is generally determined by discounting expected future cash flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the risks The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc shares inherent in the asset.
which are held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders funds and represents a reduction in distributable iv Deferred taxation reserves.
Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
Full viii Pension costs and other post retirement benefits provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets that represent the tax effect of timing differences which arise from the The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and expense in periods in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
2 Fixed assets At 30 June 2007, the Company held an investment of US$3,131 million 2006: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd is included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 2007 2006 US$M US$M Bank overdraft 5 14 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 955 1,293 Accruals 2 59 Total creditors 962 1,366 The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc company financial statements was a nominal amount refer to note 4 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements for fees for the Group as a whole.
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
4 Provisions for liabilities and charges Pension Employee liabilities benefits Total US$M US$M US$M At 1 July 2006 11 4 1 5 Charge for the year 123 Actuarial gain taken to profit and loss account reserve 1 1 Utilisation 1 1 Contributions 1 1 Transfers and other movements 1 1 At 30 June 2007 10 6 16 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 267
