5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 117 All operations have tailored learnership or apprenticeship 4.10 Socio-economic contributions programs that provide technical and personal training for Our values tradespeople and technical university students.
Equally important is the ongoing development of our internal talent pipelines to The socio-economic aspects of our operations relate to how we manage our people and generate economic value for our ensure we have people who are ready to meet future challenges and opportunities.
customers, shareholders, employees, and the communities in which we operate.
These stakeholders are impacted by, among We continue to support local suppliers at our mining assets, other things, our capital investments, purchases of goods and including the application of our Black Economic Empowerment services, taxes, salaries, and shareholder returns.
Policy in southern Africa designed to meet legislated procurement targets.
In China, our supplier selection program, while still in its The resources industry is experiencing skills shortages that will extend well into the future.
While BHP Billiton is an employer infancy, is influencing supplier standards by engaging only those suppliers that demonstrate they are committed to and maintain of choice in the resources industry, we too are facing challenges in attracting some skills in the numbers and locations we require suitable HSEC standards.
By leveraging our brand and our employee Our performance value proposition, we aim to ensure we have available the skills that will match our aspirations.
In FY2007, we generated revenue together with our share of jointly controlled entities revenue of US$47.5 billion, Underlying earnings Stakeholder expectations before interest and tax Underlying EBIT of US$20.1 billion, attributable profit excluding exceptional items of US$13.7 billion, The socio-economic impact of extractive industries can be significant: and, in recent years, there has been increasing and net operating cash flows of US$15.6 billion.
As at 30 June 2007, our market capitalisation was US$165 billion.
Our total payments scrutiny of the broad sustainable development and socio-economic implications of the mining, minerals and petroleum sectors.
to governments were US$6.1 billion, with the majority paid to governments in Australia and South America.
We are hearing support for the Extractive Industries Transparency During the reporting period, we employed approximately Initiative EITI, and we continue to work with our host governments as they develop their approach to its implementation.
All employees earned greater than the stipulated minimum wage in the countries We also know that, to remain in our industry long-term, our people where they worked.
want roles that offer development, safe working conditions, equal Our commitment to diversity was recognised in our new Human opportunity and recognition for their efforts.
In FY2007, 8 per cent of Company management From the market and our shareholders we are hearing support positions were held by women.
for our increased production activities to meet the current boom We have met our target for management level representation in demand, but also that we must continue to demonstrate sound financial management performance in anticipation of traditional by designated groups at our South African assets.
Our targeted Indigenous employment programs in the Pilbara region of Australia commodity price cycle fluctuations.
Iron Ore and the Northwest Territories in Canada EKATI Stakeholder engagement continue to deliver encouraging Indigenous employment rates.
With contractors representing around 60 per cent of our workforce, In line with our commitment to the UN Universal Declaration we held conferences in each of our major operating areas to seek of Human Rights and support for UN Global Compact, we their views on improving our approach to contractor management.
recognise the right of our employees to freely associate and join A key outcome was a new project aimed at improving contractor trade unions.
Across our locations we have a mix of collective and access to our safety training and management systems.
individually regulated employment arrangements and Common Law contracts.
In 2007 around 49 per cent of our workforce was This year, we expanded our activities in support of the covered by collective agreements.
We do not employ forced or International Council on Mining and Metals Resource Endowment child labour.
The Initiative aims to enhance industrys socio-economic contribution to the countries and communities where companies Total supply spend during the reporting period was US$17 billion, like BHP Billiton operate, by better understanding the factors that with 30 per cent spent with local suppliers.
either inhibit or promote social and economic development linked to large-scale mining projects.
Building on the two South American case studies in our 2006 Sustainability Report, we are finalising the development of a toolkit for our businesses to measure their socio-economic impacts.
The toolkit has been piloted, with the intention of it being available for use in 2008.
We continue to work with a vast array of suppliers throughout the world.
We have established a Procurement Hub in China to Regional Geographic Breakdown of facilitate a growing number of purchases from suppliers located Total Number of Employees 2006 07 in emerging markets, with an initial focus on Chinese sourcing opportunities.
We continue to work with South African Australia Asia 43% North America 7% International Business Linkages SAIBL to identify suppliers Africa 31% Europe inc UK 1% to enrol in our supplier development programs.
South America 18% Our approach Our new Human Resources Strategy aims to connect our Charter values, culture and business objectives to the way we manage Direct Economic value generated our people.
We are working to identify, recruit, train, develop and distributed 2006 07 US$ million and retain a talented, diverse, mobile and motivated workforce.
We are also recruiting from countries in which we expect our Revenues 47,962 Shareholder future development to occur, collaborating with educational dividends 2,271 Operating costs 19,936 institutions on training programs, and ensuring the industry Gross taxes & Interest payments to royalties 6,061 providers of loans 601 is attractive to new generations.
Employee wages Community & benefits 3,311 contributions 103 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 117
