5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 12 9 07 3:29 PM Page 283 11 Glossary of terms Gearing 11.1 Non-mining terms Gearing is defined as the ratio of net debt to net debt In the context of ADSs and listed investments, the term quoted plus net assets.
means traded on the relevant exchange.
Group A$ BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
Australian dollars being the currency of the Commonwealth of Australia.
Group Incentive Scheme Current share scheme.
American Depositary Share A share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created Key Management Personnel to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and trade them on the stock exchanges in the US.
An ADS is and controlling the activities of the Group, directly the actual share trading while an American Depositary Receipt or indirectly including executive Directors, and non-executive represents a bundle of ADSs or the evidence of the trade.
One ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
Key Performance Indicator Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual BHP Billiton businesses and executives in any one year.
Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Legacy share plans Share plans that commenced under the jurisdiction of Board BHP Limited and Billiton Plc and prior to the formation of The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
The following plans are included in this category: Employee Share Plan 1999 and 2000 ESP 1999 2000 Current share plans Performance Share Plan 2000 and 2001 PSP 2000 2001.
Share plans that have been implemented since June 2001 under the dual listed company BHP Billiton.
The current share plans Long Term Incentive Plan consist of Group Incentive Scheme GIS and Long Term Incentive Current share scheme.
Major projects Deferred share Projects in which our share of capital expenditure is greater than A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share issued US$100 million and are in either execution or feasibility phases.
under the rules of the GIS.
Market value DLC merger The market value based on closing prices, or, in instances when an The Dual Listed Companies merger between BHP Billiton Limited executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale price achieved.
and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
Near-miss incidents DLC structure This is a leading indicator which, when measured and monitored The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
effectively, enables effective intervention to address or reverse a negative trend before it results in injury, damage or loss.
Employee Share Plan 1999 2000 We encourage the reporting of near-miss and significant Legacy share scheme.
Abbreviates to ESP 1999 2000. incidents i. e. a close call event as a key platform of our improvement strategy.
Expected value Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome Occupational illness weighted by probability.
This measure takes into account the An occupational illness is an illness that occurs as a consequence difficulty of achieving performance conditions and the correlation of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic between these and share price appreciation.
The valuation illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, methodology also takes into account factors such as volatility, absorption, ingestion or direct contact.
Office of Chief Executive Exposure Members include the executive Directors and other direct reports The exposure hours used in injury performance calculations to the CEO.
are the total actual number of hours worked carrying out work-related activities.
Option A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price issued Frame contracts under the rules of the GIS.
A frame contract is a global agreement with a company, or group of companies, with which the vendor is likely to have an important Performance share and continuous amount of business, on the largest possible set A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, of standard contract terms, management and even financial subject to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules of the LTIP.
conditions, so that each new individual action can be contracted with a minimum of formality and procedure, i. e. via a work order.
Performance share plan 2000 2001 Legacy share scheme.
FY2006 Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2006.
FY2007 Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2007.
FY2008 Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2008.
