Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.11 Share ownership 4.
Board of Directors Review, re-election Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent and renewal of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until 4.1 Review they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
are reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
Contemporary performance measures are considered an important part of this process.
Information on our policy governing the use of hedge The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, arrangements over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors and members of the Office of Chief Executive is set out on page 49 its Committees, the Chairman, individual Directors and the governance processes which support Board work.
The evaluation of this Annual Review.
of the Boards performance is conducted by focusing on individual Details of the Shares held by Directors are set out on page 64 Directors in one year and the Board as a whole in the following of this Annual Review.
In addition to the above, the Board conducts evaluations of the performance of Directors retiring and seeking re-election 3.12 Meetings and uses the results of the evaluation when considering the The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role.
During the re-election of Directors.
External independent advisers are reporting year it met ten times with seven of those meetings being engaged to assist these processes as necessary.
It is thought held in Australia, two in the UK and one in South Africa.
Generally, that the involvement of an independent third party has assisted meetings run for two days.
Non-executive Directors meet at the the evaluation processes to be both rigorous and fair.
This year end of each Board meeting in the absence of executive Directors the Board has undertaken a review of the Board as a whole with and management.
In addition, the non-executive Directors met the assistance of independent advisers.
The evaluation was based on several occasions during the year, without executive Directors on findings from interviews with Directors and OCE members.
present, to consider CEO succession.
Attendance by Directors The 2007 review indicated that the Board is continuing to perform at Board and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table in an effective manner.
in section 4.1 of this Statement.
The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is assessed Members of the Office of Chief Executive OCE and other against the accountabilities set down in the Board Governance members of senior management attended meetings of the Board Document and each of the Committees Terms of Reference.
Senior managers delivered presentations on the Matters considered in the assessment include the effectiveness of: status and performance of our businesses and matters reserved discussion and debate at Board meetings for the Board, including the approval of budgets, annual financial the Boards processes and relationship with management statements and business strategy.
quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board papers 3.13 Company Secretaries and secretariat support Ms Karen Wood was the Chief Governance Officer and the composition of the Board, focusing on the blend of skills Group Company Secretary until 11 July 2007.
From that date and experience.
Ms Jane McAloon became Group Company Secretary.
Prior to Performance of individual Directors is assessed against a range this appointment Ms McAloon was the Company Secretary of of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: BHP Billiton Limited.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible consistently take the perspective of creating shareholder value for developing and maintaining the information systems and contribute to the development of strategy processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
The Group understand the major risks affecting the business Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising the Board provide clear direction to management on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the Group contribute to Board cohesion Company Secretary for advice and services.
Independent advisory commit the time required to fulfil the role services are retained by the office at the request of the Board listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members or Board Committees.
Ms McAloon is supported by Mr Robert of management.
Franklin, Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Plc: Ms Elizabeth The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on Hobley, Deputy Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Plc: and Ms Fiona Smith and Mr Ross Mallet who are Deputy Company the Chairmans performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert.
Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited.
The Board appoints and removes the Company Secretaries.
