Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.7.
5 Portfolio management 3.8 Off-balance sheet arrangements and Our strategy is focused on long-life, low-cost, expandable assets contractual commitments and we continually review our portfolio to identify assets which do Information in relation to our material off-balance sheet not fit this strategy.
These activities continued during the period, arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments with proceeds of US$444 million being recorded.
We disposed for capital expenditure and other expenditure and commitments of a number of assets and interests, including Southern Cross under leases at 30 June 2007 is provided in note 29 Contingent Fertilisers, one million tonnes of annual capacity in the Richards liabilities and note 21 Provisions and note 30 Commitments Bay Coal Terminal, Koornfontein, our Moranbah Coal Bed Methane to the financial statements.
assets, our interest in Eyesizwe and Alliance Copper.
Proceeds from the sale or distribution of our assets and interests over the last six years now surpass US$6 billion.
3.9 Subsidiaries and related party transactions Also during the year we announced the potential sale of Optimum, Subsidiary information an energy coal mine South Africa.
Information on our significant subsidiaries is included in note 37 We will purchase interests in assets where they fit our strategy.
We Subsidiaries to the financial statements.
acquired interests in the Genghis Khan oil field for US$583 million and the Guinea Alumina project for US$140 million.
Related party transactions The BHP Billiton Group is a group of approximately 461 3.7.
6 Dividend and capital management subsidiaries.
A list of the significant entities, together with their On 22 August 2007, the Board declared a final dividend of 27 US place of incorporation and percentage of ownership, is listed in cents per share.
This rebased dividend represents a 46 per cent note 37 Subsidiaries in the financial statements.
Related party increase over last years final dividend of 18.5 US cents per share.
transactions are outlined in note 34 Related party transactions This brings the total dividends for FY2007 to 47 US cents per share, in the financial statements.
an increase of 11 US cents per share, or 30.6 per cent, over last year.
The Boards declaration represents our eleventh consecutive 3.10 Significant changes dividend increase and signals our confidence in the outlook.
Our dividend has increased more than fourfold since the interim Other than the matters disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, dividend paid in FY2002.
Our compound annual dividend growth no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the rate has been 24 per cent over this period.
We intend to continue year that have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, with our progressive dividend policy from this new base, with the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the further increases dependent upon the expectations for future BHP Billiton Group in subsequent accounting periods.
market conditions and investment opportunities.
During the year, we also announced US$13 billion of capital initiatives.
We have returned US$6.3 billion of this to our shareholders and will return the remaining US$6.7 billion during the next 12 months.
During the year, we repurchased 287,820,269 shares, through both on-market and off-market buy-backs, at an approximate average price of US$20.26.
To date we have cancelled 281,220,269 of these shares.
Since August 2004, we have announced capital management initiatives totalling US$17 billion.
Since November 2004, 583 million shares have been repurchased, representing approximately 9.4 per cent of the total shares on issue at an approximate price of US$16.47.
At the completion of all announced initiatives, we will have returned US$28.2 billion in total to shareholders through capital initiatives and dividends since June 2001.
