Notes to the Summary Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation A full description of the accounting policies adopted by the BHP Billiton Group may be found in the BHP Billiton Annual This summary financial report for the year ended 30 June 2007 has Report 2007. been prepared on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the 30 June 2006 financial statements contained The comparative figures for the financial years ended 30 June 2006 within the Annual Report of the BHP Billiton Group, except for the and 30 June 2005 are not the statutory accounts of BHP Billiton Plc following interpretations which have been adopted for the year for those financial years.
Those accounts have been reported on by ended 30 June 2007: the Companys auditors and delivered to the registrar of companies.
IFRIC 4 AASB Interpretation 4 Determining Whether The reports of the auditors were i unqualified, ii did not include an Arrangement Contains a Lease a reference to any matters to which the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying their report and iii did IFRIC 8 AASB Interpretation 8 Scope of IFRS 2 not contain a statement under sections 235 3, 237 2 or 3 of the IFRIC 9 AASB Interpretation 9 Reassessment of Embedded UK Companies Act 1985.
Derivatives IFRIC 10 AASB Interpretation 10 Interim Financial Reporting All amounts are expressed in US dollars unless otherwise stated.
The BHP Billiton Groups presentation currency and the functional currency of the majority of its operations is US dollars as this is the The application of the above interpretations did not have a material principal currency of the economic environment in which they operate.
impact on the current or comparative periods.
Amounts in this summary financial report have, unless otherwise The comparative information has also been prepared on this basis, indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
with the exception of IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which were adopted effective 1 July 2005.
2. Business segments The BHP Billiton Group has grouped its major operating assets Due to recent growth, and a change in internal reporting structure, into the following Customer Sector Groups CSGs : Iron Ore, Manganese and Metallurgical Coal, which were previously reported as the Carbon Steel Materials CSG are now reported as Petroleum exploration for and production, processing and separate CSGs.
Comparative disclosures have been restated based marketing of hydrocarbons including oil, gas and LNG on the current reporting structure.
Aluminium exploration for and mining of bauxite, processing and marketing of aluminium and alumina During the 2006 fiscal year, following a change in management Base Metals exploration for and mining, processing and marketing responsibilities, our minerals exploration and technology functions of copper, silver, zinc, lead, uranium and copper by-products were removed from the Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG and including gold are now reported as part of Group and unallocated items.
This change in segment reporting has been reflected in all periods presented and Diamonds and Specialty Products exploration for and mining resulted in operating costs in 2006 of US$71 million 2005: US$69 of diamonds and titanium minerals, and prior to divestment in million being reported in Group and unallocated items rather than August 2006, fertiliser operations Diamonds and Specialty Products.
Stainless Steel Materials exploration for and mining, processing and marketing of nickel Group and unallocated items represent Group centre functions Iron Ore exploration for and mining, processing and marketing and certain comparative data for divested assets and investments of iron ore and exploration and technology activities.
Manganese exploration for and mining, processing and marketing It is the Groups policy that inter-segment sales are made of manganese on a commercial basis.
Metallurgical Coal exploration for and mining, processing and marketing of metallurgical coal Energy Coal exploration for and mining, processing and marketing of energy coal.
2 EBITDA is profit from operations, less depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
On 3 June 2005 the Group acquired WMC Resources Ltd for US$7,178 million.
The fair values at the date of acquisition and results from that date have been recorded in Base Metals, Stainless Steel Materials, and Diamonds and Specialty Products CSGs, and in Group and unallocated items.
