5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:55 PM Page 240 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial instruments continued Credit risk Credit risk arises from the non-performance by counterparties of their contractual financial obligations towards the BHP Billiton Group.
To manage credit risk the BHP Billiton Group maintains group-wide procedures covering the application for credit approvals, granting and renewal of counterparty limits and daily monitoring of exposures against these limits.
As part of these processes the financial viability of all counterparties is regularly monitored and assessed.
BHP Billiton Groups credit risk exposures are categorised under the following headings: Counterparties The BHP Billiton Group conducts transactions with the following major types of counterparties: Receivables counterparties The majority of sales to BHP Billiton Group customers are made on open terms.
Payment guarantee counterparties A proportion of sales to BHP Billiton Group customers occur via secured payment mechanisms.
Derivative counterparties Counterparties to derivative contracts consist of a diverse number of financial institutions and physical participants in the relevant markets.
Cash investment counterparties As part of managing cash flow and liquidity, the BHP Billiton Group holds short-term cash investments with a range of financial institutions.
The BHP Billiton Group has no significant concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty or group of counterparties.
Geographic The BHP Billiton Group trades in all major geographic regions.
Countries in which the BHP Billiton Group has a significant credit risk exposure include South Africa, Australia, the US, Japan and China.
Where appropriate, secured payment mechanisms and other risk mitigation instruments are used to protect revenues from credit risk losses.
Industry In line with our asset portfolio, the BHP Billiton Group sells into a diverse range of industries and customer sectors.
This diversity means that the BHP Billiton Group is not materially exposed to any individual industry or customer.
29 Contingent liabilities 2007 2006 US$M US$M Contingent liabilities at balance date, not otherwise provided for in the financial report, are categorised as arising from: Jointly controlled entities b Bank guarantees 1 a Other 416 355 417 355 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled assets including guarantees b Bank guarantees 1 b Performance guarantees 25 1 a Other 296 220 322 221 Total contingent liabilities 739 576 a Other contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably estimable but the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
b The BHP Billiton Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course of business.
c For the purposes of US GAAP, not included in the table above are Group performance guarantees of US$3 million 2006: US$nil and US$367 million 2006: US$318 million relating to other contingent liabilities for which provisions have been included in the Group accounts.
