Information on the Company continued The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment of 2.11 Material contracts the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Cth Takeovers DLC agreements Act or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer.
If BHP Billiton Limited wishes to act differently to the conditions, it must As noted in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Report, the DLC structure obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
Failure to comply with was implemented on 29 June 2001, and the following DLC the conditions attracts substantial penalties under the Act.
Agreements were entered into upon completion of the DLC arrangement: Equalisation of economic and voting rights the Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders the Special Voting Shares Deed have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton the BHP Deed Poll Guarantee Group.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share the Billiton Deed Poll Guarantee.
in one Company relative to the economic and voting interests of a The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which share in the other Company is determined by reference to a ratio they operate are described in detail in section 2.10.2 of this Annual known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and Report.
It is expected that these agreements will remain in effect voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and until such time as a change in control of the Group may occur.
each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its 2.12 Constitution shareholders and no matching action was taken.
The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited share is Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton of BHP Billiton Plc are, so far as possible, identical for ease of Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice versa.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used in this Company has insufficient profits or is otherwise unable to pay the description of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as be read to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
far as practicable, enter into such transactions as are necessary so The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of as to enable both Companies to pay the amount of pre-tax Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only be amended where such dividends per share.
amendment is approved as a Class Right Action a description of Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited Class Right Actions is contained in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association special Report.
A resolution in respect of a Class Right Action is voted on voting arrangements have been implemented so that the separately by the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP shareholders of both Companies vote together as a single Billiton Plc and is only passed if 75 per cent of the votes cast at the decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders of general meetings of Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc each Company in similar ways such matters are referred to as respectively are in favour of the resolution.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio 2.12.1 Directors remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint The management and control of the business and affairs of BHP Electorate Actions.
Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which, in addition to the powers and authorities conferred on it by the Constitution and In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of Articles of Association, may exercise all powers and do everything shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class that is within the power of BHP Billiton, other than what is Rights Actions, the Company wishing to carry out the Class Rights required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton in a general Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other meeting.
Company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval of its own shareholders voting separately.
2.12.2 Power to issue securities These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of documents of the two Companies, the Sharing Agreement, the Association, issue any shares or other securities with preferred, Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to a specially deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions as and created Special Voting Share issued by each Company and held in when the Directors may determine and on any other terms the each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares in the Special Directors consider appropriate, provided that any such issue: Voting Companies are held legally and beneficially by Law does not affect any special rights conferred on the holders of any Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
shares: and is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder approval in the Cross guarantees Constitution and Articles of Association, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a and the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the expressed at the date of issue.
benefit of the Deed Poll Guarantees will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were owed by 2.12.3 Power to vote where materially interested both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal Restrictions on takeovers of one Company only interest.
A Director shall not be counted at a meeting in relation to The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc any resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that a person cannot gain control of one Company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both Companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
