1 The Office of Chief Executive and Group Mr Chris Lynch, Group President, Carbon Steel Materials Management Committee continued and executive Director until 30 June 2007 Ms Rebecca McDonald, President Gas and Power During the year the members of the OCE were: Mr David Murray, President Coal Mr Charles Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Chairman Mr Tom Schutte, President Marketing Mr John Fast, Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs Mr Mahomed Seedat, President Energy Coal until 8 March 2007 retired in September 2007 Mr Nelson Silva, President Aluminium from 11 July 2007 Mr Robert Kirkby, Executive President retired 31 December 2006 Mr Jimmy Wilson, President Stainless Steel Materials Mr Marius Kloppers, Group President, Non-Ferrous Materials and Mr J Michael Yeager, Group Executive and Chief Executive executive Director Petroleum.
Mr Chris Lynch, Group President, Carbon Steel Materials and executive Director retired 30 June 2007 6.8 Business conduct Mr Marcus Randolph, Chief Organisation Development Officer Guide to Business Conduct Mr Miklos Salamon, Executive President and executive Director retired 26 October 2006 We have published a Guide to Business The Guide to Business Mr Alex Vanselow, Chief Financial Officer Conduct, which is available in eight Conduct can be languages.
The Guide reflects our Charter found at our website at Ms Karen Wood, Chief Governance Officer and Group Company www.
com values of integrity, respect, trust and Secretary aboutus governance.
It provides clear direction and Mr J Michael Yeager, Group President Energy.
advice on conducting business From 11 July 2007 the members of the Group Management internationally, interacting with communities, governments and Committee are: business partners and general workplace behaviour.
The Guide Mr Charles Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer to be succeeded applies to Directors and to all employees, regardless of their by Mr Marius Kloppers on 1 October 2007 position or location.
Consultants, contractors and business Mr Marius Kloppers, Group Executive and Chief Executive partners are also expected to act in accordance with the Guide.
Non-Ferrous until 1 October 2007 Insider trading Mr Marcus Randolph, Group Executive and Chief Executive We have a Securities Dealing Code that Ferrous and Coal A copy of the Securities covers dealings by Directors and identified Dealing Code and Mr J Michael Yeager, Group Executive and Chief Executive employees and a Securities Dealing Policy Securities Dealing Petroleum that covers dealings by all other employees.
Policy can be found Mr Alex Vanselow, Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer at our website at Both these documents restrict dealings Ms Karen Wood, Group Executive and Chief People Officer www.
com by Directors and employees in shares aboutus governance.
Mr Alberto Calderon, Group Executive and Chief Commercial and other securities during designated Officer.
prohibited periods and at any time when they are in the possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
The biographical details of members of the Group Management Committee are set out in section 5.2 of this Annual Report.
Global Ethics Panel The CEO has formed a Global Ethics Panel to: 6.7.
2 Other management Committees advise on matters affecting the values and behaviours The CEO draws on the work of other Committees to assist in of the Group monitoring and achieving outcomes consistent with the Corporate assist business leaders in assessing acceptable outcomes Objective.
The management Committees and their purposes are on issues of business ethics listed below: review the rationale, structure and content of the Guide Executive Committee The Executive Committee assists the to Business Conduct and propose changes CEO to increase the value of our business by achieving agreed operational outcomes.
promote awareness and effective implementation of the Guide to Business Conduct.
Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC The FRMC monitors the Groups financial risk management policies and Panel members have been selected on the basis of their knowledge exposures and approves financial transactions within the scope of and experience in contemporary aspects of ethics and culture of its authority.
that are relevant to the Group and consists of both employees and Investment Review Committee IRC The IRC oversees the external members.
The Panel is chaired by the Group Executive management approval processes for major investments, which and Chief People Officer.
are designed to ensure that investments are aligned to our Employee help lines agreed strategies and values, risks are identified and evaluated, investments are fully optimised to produce the maximum We have established regional help lines so that employees can shareholder value within an acceptable risk framework, seek guidance or express concerns on business-related issues.
and appropriate risk management strategies are pursued.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
A fraud hotline facility is available for reporting cases of suspected The members of the Executive Committee are: misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Arrangements Mr Charles Goodyear Chairman are in place to investigate such matters.
Where appropriate, Mr Ian Ashby, President Iron Ore investigations are conducted independently.
Levels of activity Mr Peter Beaven, President Manganese and support processes for the employee and fraud help lines Mr Alberto Calderon, President Diamonds and Specialty Products are monitored with activity reports presented to the RAC and the Board.
Further information on the Business Conduct Helpline until 11 July 2007 and fraud hotline can be found in the Guide to Business Conduct.
Mr Seamus French, Vice President Business Excellence until 13 August 2007 Political donations Mr Diego Hernandez, President Base Metals We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics Mr Graeme Hunt, President Aluminium from 11 July 2007 and do not contribute funds to any political party, politician or President Uranium and Olympic Dam Development candidate for public office.
We do, however, contribute to the Mr Marius Kloppers, Group Executive and Chief Executive, public debate of policy issues that may affect our business in Non-Ferrous and executive Director the countries in which we operate.
