2 Operational information Our Board and Executive Committee monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
We also monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community contribution indicators.
30 June 30 June 30 June 2007 2006 2005 People and Licence to operate Health, safety, environment and community a Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR 7.4 8.7 8.7 a Voluntary community contribution US$M 103.4 81.3 57.4 Production Total petroleum products Million barrels of oil equivalent 116.
It is also the natural currency for borrowing 1.5 Risk factors and holding surplus cash.
We do not generally believe that active We believe that, because of the international scope of our currency hedging provides long-term benefits to our shareholders.
operations and the industries in which we are engaged, numerous We may consider currency protection measures appropriate in factors have an effect on our results and operations.
The following specific commercial circumstances, subject to strict limits describes the material risks that could affect the BHP Billiton established by our Board.
Therefore, in any particular year, Group.
currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on our financial results.
Fluctuations in commodity prices may negatively impact our results Failure to discover new reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations may negatively affect our future results The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other commodities are determined by, or linked to, prices in world and financial condition markets, which have historically been subject to substantial The increased demand for commodities in recent years has variations.
Our usual policy is to sell our products at the prevailing resulted in existing reserves being depleted at an accelerated rate.
The diversity provided by the Groups broad Because most of our revenues and profits are related to our oil and portfolio of commodities may not fully insulate the effects of price gas and minerals operations, our results and financial conditions changes.
Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur due to are directly related to the success of our exploration and sustained price shifts reflecting underlying global economic and acquisition efforts and our ability to replace existing reserves.
geopolitical factors, industry demand and supply balances, product The rapid growth in demand for mining and petroleum industrysubstitution and national tariffs.
Additionally, volatility in prices for related technical skills, supplies and critical equipment has led to most of our commodities will occur.
The synchronisation of global shortages and delays in these areas.
The depletion of reserves has commodity markets and influence of demand from China has necessitated exploration and development of new operations in impacted, and may continue to impact, price volatility.
The less-developed countries, which may increase land tenure and influence of hedge and other financial investment funds related political risks.
A failure in our ability to discover new participating in commodity markets has increased in recent years, reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations in contributing to higher levels of price volatility.
The impact of sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our potential longer-term sustained price shifts and shorter-term price reserves could negatively affect our results, financial condition volatility creates the risk that our financial and operating results and prospects.
and asset values will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the countries in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of those currencies may have a significant impact on our financial results.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of our sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where our mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian dollar, South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real and US dollar are the most important currencies influencing our operating costs.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in our affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which we measure our BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 9 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 10 1.
Key information continued The influence of China may negatively impact our results We operate in several countries where ownership of land is in the event of a slowdown in consumption uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership.
In Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the The Chinese market has become a significant source of global establishment and recognition of native title under certain demand for commodities.
China now represents in excess of circumstances.
In South Africa, the Extension of Security of Tenure 45 per cent of global seaborne iron ore demand, 22 per cent of Act 1997 and the Restitution of Land Rights Act 1994 provide copper, 25 per cent of aluminium and 17 per cent of nickel for various landholding rights.
These Acts could negatively affect demand.
Chinas demand for these commodities has more than new or existing projects.
doubled in the last five years.
Whilst this increase represents a significant business opportunity, We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired our exposure to Chinas economic fortunes and economic policies businesses has increased.
Sales into China generated US$9.3 billion, or We have grown our business in part through acquisitions.
We 19.6 per cent of revenue including our share of jointly controlled expect that some of our future growth will stem from acquisitions.
entities revenue in the year ended 30 June 2007.
There are numerous risks encountered in business combinations, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired In recent times, we have seen a synchronised global recovery, businesses or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated, resulting in upward movement in commodity prices driven partly which could negatively affect our financial condition and results by Chinas demand.
This synchronised demand has introduced of operations.
increased volatility in the Groups commodity portfolio.
Whilst this synchronised demand has, in recent periods, resulted in higher We may not recover our investments in mining and oil and prices for the commodities we produce, a slowing in Chinas gas projects economic growth could result in lower prices for our products Our operations may be impacted by changed market or industry and therefore reduce our revenues.
structures, commodity prices, technical operating difficulties, In response to its increased demand for commodities, China inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves and increased is increasingly seeking self-sufficiency in key commodities, operating cost levels.
These may impact the ability for assets including investments in additional developments in other to recover their historical investment and may require financial countries.
These investments may impact future demand and write-downs adversely impacting our financial results.
Our non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards Actions by governments or political events in the countries in Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint venture which we operate could have a negative impact on our business partners or by other companies.
Some joint venture partners may We have operations in many countries around the globe, some of have divergent business objectives that may impact business which have varying degrees of political and commercial stability.
Management of our non-controlled assets We operate in emerging markets, which may involve additional may not comply with our health, safety, environment, and risks that could have an adverse impact upon the profitability other standards, controls and procedures.
Failure to adopt of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, equivalent standards, controls and procedures at these assets nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, could lead to higher costs and reduced production and adversely leases, permits or other agreements, and changes in laws and impact our results and reputation.
policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
Risks relating to bribery and corruption may be prevalent in some of the countries Operating cost pressures and shortages could negatively impact in which we operate.
If one or more of these risks occurs at one our operations and expansion plans of our major projects, it could have a negative effect on the The strong commodity cycle and large numbers of projects being operations in those countries, as well as our overall operating developed in the resources industry has led to increased demand results and financial condition.
for, and shortages in, skilled personnel, contractors, materials and Our business could be adversely affected by new government supplies that are required as critical inputs to our existing regulation such as controls on imports, exports and prices, new operations and planned developments.
Labour unions may seek forms or rates of taxation and royalties.
Increasing requirements to secure an increased share of the economic rent in the current relating to regulatory, environmental and social approvals can environment.
A number of key cost inputs consumed in our potentially result in significant delays in construction, and may operations are commodity price-linked and have consequently adversely impact upon the economics of new mining and oil and been impacted by the higher commodity price environment.
These gas properties, the expansion of existing operations and our factors have led, and could continue to lead to, increased capital results of operations.
and operating costs at existing operations, as well as impacting the cost and schedule of projects under development.
Industrial In South Africa, the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development action may impact our operations resulting in lost production Act 2002 MPRDA came into effect on 1 May 2004.
provides for the conversion of existing mining rights so called Old Order Rights to rights under the new regime New Order We have undertaken, and may continue to undertake, activities Rights, subject to certain undertakings to be made by the to improve the cost and operating performance of our operations company applying for such conversion.
The Broad Based Socio via our business excellence initiatives.
These initiatives may not be Economic Empowerment Charter Mining Charter, published successfully implemented, and potential operating cost and under the MPRDA, requires that mining companies achieve 15 per production benefits may not be fully realised.
cent ownership by historically disadvantaged South Africans of South African mining assets within five years, and 26 per cent ownership within 10 years.
If we are unable to convert our South African mining rights in accordance with the MPRDA and the Mining Charter, we could lose some of those rights.
China commodity demand statistics sourced from BHP Billiton Resourcefully growing presentation by C. W. Goodyear, 8 May 2007.
10 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 11 Health, safety and environmental exposures and related A number of governments or governmental bodies have regulations may impact our operations and reputation negatively introduced or are contemplating regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change.
The December 1997 Kyoto The nature of the industries in which we operate means our Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for activities are highly regulated by health, safety and environmental developed countries that have ratified the Protocol.
As regulatory standards and expectations are constantly Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, which came into effect developing, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance on 1 January 2005, has had an impact on greenhouse gas and costs and unforeseen environmental remediation expenses.
energy-intensive businesses based in the EU.
Our petroleum assets Potential health, safety and environmental events that may in the UK are currently subject to the EU ETS, as are our EU based materially impact our operations include fall of ground incidents in customers.
Elsewhere, there is current and emerging regulation, underground mining operations, aircraft incidents, explosions or such as the mandatory renewable energy target in Australia or gas leaks, incidents involving mobile equipment, uncontrolled potential carbon trading regimes that will affect energy prices.
tailings breaches or escape of polluting substances.
From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see changes in the margins of our greenhouse gas-intensive assets Longer-term health impacts may arise due to unanticipated and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the workplace exposures by employees or site contractors.
These countries in which we operate.
These regulatory mechanisms may effects may create future financial compensation obligations.
be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations We provide for mine and site remediation.
Changes in regulatory directly or indirectly through our customers.
Inconsistency of or community expectations may result in the relevant plans not regulations may also change the attractiveness of the locations of being adequate.
This may impact financial provisioning and costs some of our assets.
Assessments of the potential impact of future at the affected operations.
climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the 25 or more countries in which We contribute to the communities in which we operate by providing skilled employment opportunities, salaries and wages, we operate.
taxes and royalties and community development programs.
The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations Notwithstanding these actions, local communities may become are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the geographic dissatisfied with the impact of our operations, potentially affecting circumstances.
These may include changes in rainfall patterns, costs and production, and in extreme cases viability.
water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels.
These effects Legislation such as REACH requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream users of chemical substances, including metals may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.
and minerals, to establish that the substances can be used without negatively affecting health or the environment may impact our Our human resource talent pool may not be adequate to support operations and markets.
These potential compliance costs, the Groups growth litigation expenses, regulatory delays, remediation expenses and operational costs could negatively affect our financial results.
The current strong commodity cycle and our pipeline of development projects have increased demand for highly skilled We may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs due executives and staff with relevant industry and technical to the costs and lost time associated with the HIV AIDS and experience.
The inability of the Group and industry to attract and malaria infection rate of our African workforce.
Because we retain such people may adversely impact our ability to adequately operate globally, we may be affected by potential avian flu resource development projects and fill roles and vacancies in outbreaks in any of the regions in which we operate.
The effects of existing operations.
Similar shortages have also impacted, and avian flu may manifest themselves directly on employees, offices may continue to affect, key engineering, technical service, and operations, or indirectly on customers and markets.
Despite construction and maintenance contractors utilised by us in our best efforts and best intentions, there remains a risk that development projects and existing operations.
These shortages health, safety and or environmental incidents or accidents may may adversely impact the cost and schedule of development occur that may negatively impact our reputation or licence to projects and the cost and efficiency of existing operations.
Breaches in our information technology IT security processes Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may impact may adversely impact the conduct of our business activities our operations.
We maintain global IT and communication networks and We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in applications to support our business activities.
IT security many geographic locations, both onshore and offshore.
Our processes protecting these systems are in place and subject to operational processes and geographic locations may be subject to assessment as part of the review of internal control over financial operational accidents such as port and shipping incidents, fire and reporting.
These processes may not prevent future malicious action explosion, pitwall failures, loss of power supply, railroad incidents or fraud by individuals or groups, resulting in the corruption of and mechanical failures.
Our operations may also be subject to operating systems, theft of sensitive data, misappropriation of unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, flood, funds and disruptions to our business operations.
Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such A breach in our governance processes may lead to regulatory events.
The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in penalties and loss of reputation production and loss of facilities adversely affecting our financial We operate in a global environment straddling multiple results.
jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance and compliance processes, which include the review of internal Climate change and greenhouse effects may adversely impact control over financial reporting, may not prevent future potential our operations and markets breaches of law, accounting or governance practice.
Our Guide We are a major producer of energy-related products such as to Business Conduct and Anti-trust Protocols may not prevent energy coal, oil, gas, liquefied natural gas and uranium.
Energy is non-adherence to business conduct protocols or instances of also a significant input in a number of our mining and processing fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty.
These may lead to regulatory operations.
There is growing recognition that energy consumption fines, loss of operating licences and loss of reputation.
is a contributor to global warming, greenhouse effects and potentially climate change.
