Directors Report continued 8.9 Environmental performance 8.13 Value of land Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred Much of our interest in land consists of leases and other rights to in sections 4 and 8.22 of this Annual Report.
that permit the working of such land and the erection of buildings and equipment thereon for the purpose of extracting and treating minerals.
Such land is mainly carried in the accounts at cost and 8.10 Dividends it is not possible to estimate the market value, as this depends on product prices over the long term, which will vary with A final dividend of 27 US cents per share will be paid on market conditions.
Details of the dividends paid and the dividend policy are set out in section 3.7.
8.14 Political and charitable donations 8.11 Auditors No political contributions or donations for political purposes were made during FY2007.
We made charitable donations in the A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of United Kingdom of US$734,578 cash 2006: US$1,137,333 and BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General worldwide, including in-kind support and administrative cost Meetings in accordance with section 385 of the United Kingdom totalling US$103,362,481 2006: US$81,286,299.
A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditors to the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the 8.15 Exploration, research and development independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research 2001 and the professional code of conduct for External Auditors and development necessary to support their activities.
Further is set out on page 246 of this Annual Report.
details are provided in sections 2.6 and 2.7 of this Annual Report.
No person who was an officer of BHP Billiton during FY2007 was a director or partner of the Groups External Auditors at a time when 8.16 Creditor payment policy the Groups External Auditors conducted an audit of the Group.
When we enter into a contract with a supplier, payment terms Each person who held the office of Director at the date the will be agreed when the contract begins and the supplier will Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes the be made aware of these terms.
We do not have a specific policy following statements: towards our suppliers and do not follow any code or standard so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit practice.
However, we settle terms of payment with suppliers information of which the Groups External Auditors are unaware: when agreeing overall terms of business, and seek to abide by the and terms of the contracts to which we are bound.
As at 30 June 2007, the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have BHP Billiton Plc the unconsolidated parent entity had no trade taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant creditors outstanding and therefore had nil days purchases audit information and to establish that the Groups External outstanding in respect of costs, based on the total invoiced Auditors are aware of that information.
8.12 Non-audit services 8.17 Class order Details of the non-audit services undertaken by our External BHP Billiton Limited is a company of a kind referred to in Australian Auditors, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, Securities and Investments Commission Class Order No.
98 100, are set out in note 4 Expenses in the financial statements.
Amounts in this Directors Report and the on advice provided by the Risk and Audit Committee, the Directors financial statements, except estimates of future expenditure or have formed the view that the provision of non-audit services where otherwise indicated, have been rounded to the nearest is compatible with the general standard of independence for million dollars in accordance with that Class Order.
auditors, and that the nature of non-audit services means that auditor independence was not compromised.
Further information about our policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services 8.18 Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited by the auditor is set out in section 6.5.
No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited, nor any application made under section 237 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
