Operating and financial review and prospects continued 30 June 30 June 30 June 2007 2006 2005 Project Pipeline and Growth Options major projects Number of projects approved during the year 3 74 Number of projects currently under development 15 66 Number of completed projects 1 48 Budgeted capital expenditure for projects approved in the year US$M 2,355 5,048 2,029 Budgeted capital expenditure for projects currently under development US$M 10,426 4,455 3,410 Capital expenditure of completed projects US$M 1,100 1,405 1,786 In addition to these opportunities, we also acquired an interest in the Genghis Khan oil field, in the Gulf of Mexico, and a one-third share of the Guinea Alumina project, which consists of high-quality bauxite deposits and the development of an aluminium refinery in Guinea.
We are expecting to deliver further significant growth in the next financial year with new projects commissioning or ramping up across our Petroleum, Base Metals, Iron Ore and Stainless Steel Materials CSGs.
The details of each significant growth project approved, under development and completed may be found in section 3.7.
Currency strength against the US dollar has added further cost pressure.
Market conditions in Australia and the Gulf of Mexico are particularly tight and are impacting both existing projects and our plans to execute new growth projects in these regions.
The quality of our assets and the diversity of our portfolio underpin the strength of our cash flow.
This allows us to both identify and invest in growth opportunities while continuing to deliver outstanding returns to shareholders.
3.4 External factors and trends affecting our results The following section describes some of the external factors and trends that have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic and changing environment, and with information that is rarely complete and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed in this section under our portfolio management approach, which relies on the effects of diversification, rather than individual price risk management programs.
Details of our financial instruments outstanding at 30 June 2007 may be found in note 28 Financial instruments in the financial statements.
Management monitors particular trends arising in the external factors with a view to managing the potential impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.
The following external factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that is incomplete or uncertain.
1 Commodity prices In FY2007, real prices for all our major commodity prices remained at or near their highest levels since the 1970s as Chinese demand for raw materials continued.
Of particular note was the increase in base metals prices with nickel being the standout performer.
Bulk commodity prices also continue to be strong and demand remains firm.
Energy prices are very strong with crude oil near record highs.
Looking forward, supply side pressures are expected to remain high and demand growth from China should remain robust.
With continuing strong demand, structurally higher cost sources of supply will be required.
Higher energy prices are also likely to have a flowon effect to commodity prices.
The following table shows the average prices of our most significant commodities for the three years ended 30 June 2007.
2 Price represents that set in April of the relevant fiscal year.
3 Prime hard coking coal worldwide.
86 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 87 The following summarises the trends of our most significant Metallurgical coal: A lower contract price settlement for commodities for the year ended 30 June 2007. metallurgical coal for Japanese Fiscal Year 2007 and higher Chinese export coke prices, driven by higher domestic coal prices Oil: Oil prices continue to strengthen this year on the back of and government export taxes, helped stimulate demand for above-trend world economic growth, strong demand, metallurgical coal in FY2007, with Indian demand particularly disappointing non-OPEC supply, OPECs decision to maintain strong.
There was also some tightening in the market in the current output levels, non-commercial seeking higher commodity second half as infrastructure constraints in Australia and adverse risk exposure, a predicted active Atlantic hurricane season and weather conditions in Canada reduced available shipping recurrent geopolitical factors.
OPECs spare capacity doubled from tonnages.
last years level to reach nearly 4 million bbl d, including Iraq, with demand ending the year at 86.13 million bbl d and non-OPEC Energy coal: Growth in energy coal demand is closely related to supply at 50.25 million bbl d. Both fundamentals and geopolitical growth in electricity consumption, which has increased at an events lent support to prices and supply disruptions, with Iran and average rate of 3.5 per cent per annum since 2000.
The cost of fuel Nigeria bringing more uncertainty to the market.
Another serious is typically the largest variable cost involved in electricity threat to supply this year was the confirmed trend of resource generation.
On an energy basis, coal is currently the cheapest nationalism evidenced by ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips leaving fossil fuel for electricity generation in most seaborne markets, Venezuela.
Prices strengthened during FY2007 as supply struggled to match strong growth in demand in the Pacific.
Other Aluminium: The aluminium market remained strong throughout factors contributing to high energy coal prices include a surge in FY2007.
The closing benchmark cash price on the London Metal freight rates, a weaker US dollar relative to some of the key coal Exchange LME at the end of the fiscal year was US$2,676 per exporting country currencies, and steady increases in global oil and tonne, up marginally on its starting price for the fiscal year.
times, the cash price on the LME was trading just below US$3,000 per tonne.
For the fiscal year as a whole, the cash price averaged The following table indicates the estimated impact on FY2007 US$2,691 per tonne compared to US$2,245 per tonne in FY2006.
profit after taxation of changes in the prices of our commodities.
While aluminium stock levels on the LME exchange rose during the With the exception of price-linked costs, the sensitivities below course of the fiscal year, visible stock levels measured in terms of assume that all other variables, such as exchange rate, costs, global consumption still remained at historically very low levels.
volumes and taxation, remain constant.
There is an interContinuing uncertainty concerning the level of net aluminium relationship between changes in commodity prices and changes in exports from China and a tight energy environment supported the currencies that is not reflected in the sensitivities below.
are based on FY2007 actual results and sales prices of our commodities under a mix of short, medium and long-term Copper: Refined copper demand picked up strongly from the latter contracts.
Movements in commodities prices can cause movements part of calendar year 2006 as Chinese consumers took advantage in exchange rates and vice versa.
These sensitivities should of attractive arbitrage opportunities between LME and SHFE prices therefore be used with care.
The International Copper Study Group ICSG estimates that in calendar 2006, refined copper Estimated impact on FY2007 profit after taxation consumption reached 37.6 billion pounds, up 2.1 per cent from the of changes of: US$M previous year.
However, in the first four months of calendar 2007, refined copper demand is estimated by the ICSG to have risen by US$1 bbl on oil price 23 10.5 per cent year-on-year.
Combined exchange stocks at USc1 lb on aluminium price 27 LME Comex Shanghai rose during FY2007 by 136 million pounds, USc1 lb on copper price 19 from 356 million pounds to 492 million pounds.
USc1 lb on nickel price 2 Nickel: Nickel prices historically have continued to demonstrate US$1 t on iron ore price 57 greater price volatility than most other metals, and the recent past US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 23 has been no exception where FY2007 has seen historical high prices for the metal.
The nickel price began FY2007 with a price of US$1 t on energy coal price 23 US$10.29 per pound.
A strong resurgence in stainless steel and nickel demand saw an increase in the first half of FY2007, with an The impact of the commodity price movements in the current year average nickel price of US$14.11 per pound.
During the second half is discussed in section 3.6 Operating results of FY2007, prices continued to increase and peaked at a historical high of US$24.54 per pound in May 2007.
2 Exchange rates June 2007, a change in market fundamentals and sentiment had We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign been experienced reflecting a downward trend in the commodity currency sales and purchases as we believe that active currency cycle, with nickel prices closing at US$16.26 per pound at the end hedging does not provide long-term benefits to our shareholders.
LME nickel stocks reduced from 20.7 million pounds at Because a majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars, the start of the financial year to 19.5 million pounds at the end of and the US dollar otherwise plays a dominant role in our business, FY2007.
we borrow and hold surplus cash predominantly in US dollars to Iron ore: Market conditions remained tight in 2007, underpinned by provide a natural hedge.
Operating costs and costs of local equipment are influenced by the fluctuations in the Australian continued buoyant demand for imports by China as pig iron growth remains very strong and Chinese local iron ore production dollar, South African rand, Chilean peso and Brazilian real, although we do hedge certain project costs.
Foreign exchange was not able to increase at the same rate.
The 19.5 per cent price increase for fines in 2006 stimulated further high-cost iron ore gains and losses reflected in operating costs owing to fluctuations in the abovementioned currencies relative to the US dollar may production, including domestic low-grade ores from China, but challenges in ramping up capacity in major export producers potentially offset one another.
The Australian dollar generally strengthened throughout FY2007, while the South African rand located in Australia and Brazil have been compounded by severe cyclonic weather conditions in Australia in early 2007, delaying generally weakened.
The overall impact is to sustain a We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation to stronger for longer market outlook as evidenced by the 9.5 per net monetary liabilities being our foreign currency denominated cent price increase achieved for the 2007 Japanese financial year.
monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and other long-term liabilities other than site restoration provisions at operating sites where foreign currency gains and losses are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued The following table indicates the estimated impact on FY2007 limit speculative inflows.
On the producer side, higher energy and profit before taxation of changes in the Australian dollar or South raw material prices are likely to mean a gradual increase in factory African rand, which are the two principal currencies outside of the gate prices through the first half of 2008.
US dollar to which we are exposed in terms of our net monetary Despite moderating US economic growth, global economic liabilities.
The sensitivities give the estimated impact on profit fundamentals remain strong and the ongoing strength shown by before taxation based on the exchange rate movement in isolation.
emerging Asian economies including China should support global The sensitivities assume all variables except for exchange rate growth.
Moreover, the competitiveness of open Asian economies is remaining constant.
As outlined above, there is an inter-relationship likely to continue to place downward pressure on inflation which between currencies and commodity prices that is not reflected in should in turn provide greater flexibility for accommodative the sensitivities below.
Movements in commodities prices can monetary policy stances taken by key central banks.
Consumer cause movements in exchange rates and vice versa.
These spending in the US may slow through 2008 due to wealth effects sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
associated with the housing market deterioration.
However, despite these risks, growth in the US is expected to be maintained Estimated impact on FY2007 profit before taxation as low unemployment, low interest rates and a solid global of changes of: US$M economy support economic activity.
Solid domestic demand will remain a key driver of healthy economic growth in Europe.
Our Australian dollar USc1 A$ outlook for Japan remains unchanged with expected strong 1 Net monetary liabilities 27 investment and further employment growth likely to promote and improvement in consumption.
South African rand 0.2 rand US$ 1 Net monetary liabilities 6 Recent discussions with our customers have indicated that they do not expect the volatility in the US and European credit markets to Rand debt 2 have a material impact on raw material demand.
In particular, our 1 Impact based on difference in opening and closing exchange rates for the customers in China and India believe domestic supply and demand period.
criteria are much more important factors in their markets.
We will continue to assess impacts from this recent volatility.
The impact of exchange rate movements in the current year is 3.4.
5 Operating costs and capital expenditures discussed in section 3.6 Operating results.
Strong demand for resources globally has continued to challenge 3.4.
3 Interest rates us and other resource companies, leading to increased costs across We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings the industry for skilled labour, contractors, raw materials, fuel, and investments.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is for interest energy and other input costs.
In addition, port congestion and on our borrowings to be on a US dollar floating interest rate basis.
other third party infrastructure constraints resulted in increased Deviation from our policy requires the prior approval of our Financial demurrage costs and shipping, freight and other distribution Risk Management Committee, and is managed within our Cash charges.
However, our recruitment and procurement strategies Flow at Risk CFaR limit, which is described in note 28 Financial that leverage off our scale and geographic diversity and our Business Excellence program, which is sourcing and replicating instruments in the financial statements.
When required under this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross currency best practice from our extensive asset base, are contributing to a continued reduction in the rate of cost increase.
Our challenge is to interest rate swaps, to convert a fixed rate exposure to a floating ensure that these higher costs do not become a permanent rate exposure or vice versa.
As at 30 June 2007, we have US$1.4 structural change to our cost base.
Our activities are becoming billion of fixed interest borrowings that have not been swapped more geographically diverse, and our Business Excellence program to floating rates, arising principally from legacy positions that were continues to mature.
in existence prior to the merger that created the DLC structure.
6 Exploration and development of resources 3.4.
4 Growth in product demand Because most of our revenues and profits are related to our oil and The demand for our products is directly related to the strength of gas and minerals operations, our results and financial condition are the global economy.
However, the diversification of our portfolio of directly related to the success of our exploration efforts and our assets and commodities we extract limits the impact of a particular ability to replace existing reserves.
However, there are no industry or region.
guarantees that our exploration program will be successful.
The global economy remains robust, driven by solid activity in Asia When we identify an economic deposit, there are often significant and Europe.
Economic fundamentals remain relatively strong.
challenges and hurdles entailed in its development, such as Unemployment remains low and the supply of labour is still negotiating rights to extract ore with governments and constrained.
This is resulting in rising wages and increased landowners, design and construction of required infrastructure, household consumption.
utilisation of new technologies in processing and building customer support.
Asian economies, led by China, continue to demonstrate strong growth.
Indias economy continues to gather pace, recently recording 3.4.
7 Health, safety, environment and community its fastest economic growth rate in 18 years.
In Europe, solid growth Central to our business is a commitment to sustainable is being supported by accommodative monetary conditions, development, which incorporates health, safety, environment and rebounding consumption and strong German industrial activity.
Our aims are to achieve Zero Harm in US economy continues to soften, with the housing sector acting as a our health and safety performance, to embed a systematic drag on activity.
The Japanese household sector is also experiencing approach to environmental risk management and to increase our weakness, increasing risks of deflation later in the year.
Key central engagement with host communities.
Frequently, these aims will banks have reacted to recent global financial market instability by lead to the implementation of standards that exceed applicable injecting liquidity in an attempt to calm markets.
Apart from our belief that applying best industry practice in health, safety and environmental The rate of growth of the Chinese economy has shown no signs of management is part of being a good corporate citizen, we believe abating with economic growth expected to be maintained or establishing a track record of minimising health, safety and perhaps accelerate over the second half of 2007.
This has largely environmental impacts leads to higher levels of trust in the been driven by strong demand, domestic retail sales, healthy communities in which we operate, among the governments that investment growth and exports.
Continued monetary tightening, regulate us and the organisations that monitor our conduct.
new export taxes and cuts in value added tax rebates have had a minimal effect on economic behaviour to date.
While the Chinese Our activities are highly regulated by health, safety and currency continues to appreciate against the US dollar, the environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions.
While we believe appreciation has been controlled as the government desires to we are currently operating in accordance with these laws, 88 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
