Corporate Governance Statement continued In selecting Mr Kloppers the Board concluded that he would bring 6.3.
Board of Directors to the role the skills necessary to take our business to the next 6.3.
1 Role and responsibilities stage of its development.
His considerable experience in the resources sector and demonstrated strategic capabilities will The Boards role is to represent the shareholders and is accountable to them for creating and delivering value through the effective assist him in performing the new role.
Mr Goodyear will officially handover to Mr Kloppers on 1 October 2007.
Following the governance of the business.
handover he will assist Mr Kloppers with the transition program The Board has published a Board The Board Governance and will then retire from the Board this year and the Group in Governance Document, which is a Document can be found at January 2008. statement of the practices and processes www.
com the Board has adopted to discharge its aboutus governance.
It includes the processes The Directors also oversaw an independent review of the Board.
the Board has implemented to undertake its own tasks and The Board considered major business decisions, including capital activities: the matters it has reserved for its own consideration projects and capital management strategies.
and decision-making: the authority it has delegated to the CEO, The Board is satisfied that it has discharged its obligations including the limits on the way in which the CEO can execute that as set out in the Board Governance Document.
authority: and provides guidance on the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
2 Membership The matters that the Board has specifically reserved for its The Board currently has 12 members.
Of these, 10, including decision are: the Chairman, are independent non-executive Directors.
the appointment of the CEO and approval of the appointments The non-executive Directors are considered by the Board of direct reports to the CEO to be independent of management and free from any business approval of the overall strategy and annual budgets relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere of the business with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent determination of matters in accordance with the judgement.
Further information on the process for assessing approvals framework independence is in section 6.3.
Mr Miklos Salamon retired from the Board on 26 October 2006 and Mr Chris Lynch retired from the formal determinations that are required by the Groups Board on 30 June 2007.
Dr David Brink has indicated an intention constitutional documents, by statute or by other external regulation.
to retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, General Meetings.
Mr Charles Goodyear will also retire from subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional documents the Board this year.
The Directors of the Group are: Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to Mr Don Argus AO Chairman achieve the Corporate Objective to the CEO, who is free to take all Mr Charles Goodyear decisions and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are reasonable Mr Paul Anderson having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
The CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority that is delegated, and for Dr David Brink the performance of the business.
The Board monitors the decisions Dr John Buchanan and actions of the CEO and the performance of the business to Mr Carlos Cordeiro gain assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate Mr David Crawford Objective, within the limits it has imposed.
The Board also The Hon Gail fide Planque monitors the performance of the Group through its Committees.
Dr David Jenkins Reports from each of the Committees are set out in section 6.5.
Mr Marius Kloppers The CEO is required to report regularly in a spirit of openness and Mr Jacques Nasser AO trust on the progress being made by the business.
The Board and Dr John Schubert.
its Committees determine the information required from the CEO and any employee or external party, including the auditor.
Open The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 5.1 dialogue between individual members of the Board and the CEO of this Annual Report.
and other employees is encouraged to enable Directors to gain Balance of non-executive and executive Directors a better understanding of our business.
Key activities during the year Independent CEO succession non-executive Chairman The most important task undertaken by the Board during the Executive year was to appoint a new CEO following the announcement Directors in February 2007 that Mr Charles Goodyear intended to resign as CEO toward the end of September 2007.
The Board retained the services of Heidrick & Struggles to assist in the identification of potential candidates to replace Mr Charles Goodyear.
Following a worldwide executive search a number of potential external Other independent and internal candidates were identified and, following a rigorous non-executive Directors evaluation, it was decided that Mr Marius Kloppers, currently Group Executive and Chief Executive, Non-Ferrous, would replace Mr Goodyear as CEO with effect from 1 October 2007.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors 6.3.
4 Chairman The Board considers that the executive and non-executive The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, is considered by the Board to Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and be independent.
He was appointed Chairman of BHP Limited experience necessary to enable them to effectively govern the in 1999 and has been Chairman of the Group since 2001. business.
The non-executive Directors contribute international As Chairman, he is responsible for: and operational experience: understanding of the sectors in ensuring that the principles and processes of the Board which we operate: knowledge of world capital markets and an are maintained, including the provision of accurate, timely understanding of the health, safety, environmental and community and clear information challenges that we face.
Executive Directors bring additional encouraging debate and constructive criticism perspectives to the Boards work through a deep understanding setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in conjunction of the Groups business.
with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity, on the strategic direction and performance of our business a preparedness to question, challenge and critique and a leading the Board and individual Director performance willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards assessments of governance.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or speaking and acting for the Board and representing the action is taken that places his or her interests in front of the Board to shareholders interests of the business.
presenting shareholders views to the Board Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
Individual Directors are required to debate issues Mr Argus is Chairman of Brambles Limited, a company listed openly and constructively and be free to question or challenge on the Australian Securities Exchange.
The Board considers the opinions of others.
that neither his Chairmanship of Brambles, nor any of his other The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the commitments set out in section 5 in Annual Report, interfere with Board is comprised of high calibre individuals whose background, the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group.
The Board skills, experience and personal characteristics will augment the is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the present Board and meet its future needs.
The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified Director qualifications Dr John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at short notice.
5 Independence The Board considers that an appropriate balance between executive and non-executive Directors is necessary to promote shareholder interests and to govern the business effectively.
Science 17% It is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors are independent.
Process to determine independence Engineering 33% The Board has developed a policy that it Business Finance 42% A copy of the Policy uses to determine the independence of its on Independence of Directors.
This determination is carried out Directors is available at annually or at any other time where the www.
circumstances of a Director change such Director industry background experience as to warrant reconsideration.
The Policy provides that the test of independence is whether Energy 34% the Director is: independent of management and any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the Manufacturing 8% exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
Banking Finance 25% Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent but is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying Resources 33% the independence test, the Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the Policy.
A summary of the factors that may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors is set out below.
5 Independence continued Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in companies with which we have commercial relationships.
Those Tenure positions and companies are set out in section 5.1 of this Annual The Board has a policy requiring non-executive Directors who have Report.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between served on the Board for nine years or more to stand for annual the Group and companies in which Directors hold or held positions re-election.
All Directors standing for re-election must undergo and concluded that in all cases the relationships do not interfere a formal performance assessment, irrespective of the period they with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent have served on the Board.
At the conclusion of the 2007 Annual judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of our General Meetings, Mr Don Argus and Mr David Crawford will each business.
Transactions during the year that amounted to related have served on the Board for more than nine years and will stand party transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under for annual re-election.
The Board does not believe that either of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined in these Directors has served for a period that could materially note 34 Related Party Transactions to the financial statements.
interfere with their ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
The Board also believes that they have retained independence of Some of the Directors hold cross-directorships.
Mr Don Argus character and judgement and have not formed associations with and Mr Jacques Nasser are both directors of Brambles Limited, management or others that might compromise their ability to and members of the International Advisory Board of Allianz exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests of Aktiengesellschaft.
Dr John Schubert and Mr Paul Anderson are the Group.
Dr David Brink, who has also served for nine years, both directors of Qantas Airways Limited.
The Board has assessed will not seek re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meetings.
each of these relationships and in all cases concluded that the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of Length of tenure of non-executive Directors objective, unfettered or independent judgement or the Directors ability to act in the Groups best interests.
Over 9 years 30% Executive Directors The two executive Directors, Mr Charles Goodyear, and Mr Marius Kloppers, are not considered independent because of their executive responsibilities.
None of the executive Directors hold directorships in any other company included in the ASX 100 69 years 20% or FTSE 100.
6 Senior Independent Director 36 years 10% The Board has appointed Dr John Buchanan as the Senior 03 years 40% Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Combined Code.
Dr Buchanan is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
7 Terms of appointment The former Directors of BHP Limited Mr Don Argus, Mr David Crawford, Dr David Jenkins and Dr John Schubert participated The Board has adopted a letter of A copy of the letter in a retirement plan approved by shareholders in 1989.
The plan appointment that contains the terms is available at was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits accrued to that date, on which non-executive Directors will be www.
com together with interest earned on the benefits, have been preserved aboutus governance.
appointed, including the basis upon which and will be paid on retirement.
The Board does not believe that they will be indemnified.
the independence of any participating Director is compromised 6.3.
8 Induction and training as a result of this plan.
Each new non-executive Director A copy of an indicative Relationships and associations undertakes an induction program induction program is Mr David Crawford was the National Chairman of KPMG in specifically tailored to their needs.
He retired in June 2001 and has no ongoing relationship www.
com Non-executive Directors participate aboutus governance.
KPMG was a joint auditor of Billiton Plc prior to the in the Boards training and development merger with BHP Limited and of BHP Billiton up to 2003 and the program, which has been designed to sole auditor of BHP Billiton from December 2003.
The Board ensure that non-executive Directors update their skills considers this matter on an annual basis and does not consider and knowledge to maximise their effectiveness as Directors Mr Crawfords independence to be compromised.
The Board throughout their tenure.
considers Mr Crawfords financial acumen to be important in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
9 Independent advice of the Board and Chairmanship of the Risk and Audit Committee The Board and its Committees may seek advice from independent is considered by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, In June 2006, the Board reappointed former Chief Executive Officer with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent Mr Paul Anderson as a non-executive Director.
Before appointing professional advice on any matter connected with the discharge Mr Anderson, the Board considered his independence in light of their responsibilities, at the Groups expense.
of the Policy on Independence of Directors, the UK Combined Code and the Australian Securities Exchange Principles and 6.3.
Each of these include that a measure Details of our remuneration policies and practices and the of independence is whether a Director has been an executive remuneration paid to the Directors executive and non-executive within the past five years.
The Board considers Mr Anderson are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 7 of this Annual to be independent.
At the time of his appointment as a Report.
Shareholders will be invited to consider and to approve the non-executive Director, almost four years had elapsed since Remuneration Report at the 2007 Annual General Meetings.
Mr Anderson had retired as Chief Executive Officer.
The Board maintains the view that this previous employment history does not interfere with his objective, unfettered or independent judgement or affect his ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
