Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2007 Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability 1 A B A B A B A B A B Paul Anderson 10 9 4 4 Don Argus 10 10 6 6 David Brink 10 10 9 9 3 3 John Buchanan 10 8 6577 Carlos Cordeiro 10 10 7 7 David Crawford 10 10 9 9 E Gail fide Planque 10 10 7644 Charles Goodyear 8 8 David Jenkins 10 10 9 9 7 7 Marius Kloppers 8 8 2 Chris Lynch 8 6 Jacques Nasser 10 9 9 8 3 Miklos Salamon 3 2 John Schubert 10 9 6 6 4 4 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
1 Includes meetings which considered CEO succession with only non-executive Directors present.
2 Chris Lynch retired from the Board on 30 June 2007.
3 Miklos Salamon retired from the Board on 26 October 2006.
4.2 Re-election a proven track record of creating shareholder value unquestioned integrity At least one-third of Directors retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Directors are not appointed for a fixed term but must a commitment to the highest standards of governance submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after three years.
having the required time available to devote to the job The period that Directors have served on the Board and the years strategic mind set, an awareness of market leadership, in which they were first appointed and last elected are set out outstanding monitoring skills from pages 28 to 31 of this Annual Review.
a preparedness to question, challenge and critique The Board has determined that non-executive Directors who have an independent point of view.
served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to their first election must stand for re-election annually starting shareholders for election at the first Annual General Meeting from the first Annual General Meeting after the expiration of following their appointment.
Board Committees seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Following that appraisal, authority, including monitoring the performance of the business to the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, gain assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring Objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
The permanent Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse a Director for Committees of the Board are the Risk and Audit Committee, the re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
Sustainability Committee, the Nomination Committee and the The Board will advise shareholders in the Notice of Meeting Remuneration Committee.
Other Committees are formed from whether or not re-election is supported.
time to time to deal with specific matters.
4.3 Renewal Each of the permanent Committees has The Terms of Reference The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance Terms of Reference under which authority for each Committee of the Nomination Committee.
In doing this, the Board: is delegated by the Board.
can be found at: considers the skills, knowledge and experience necessary www.
com The office of the Company Secretary aboutus governance.
to allow it to meet the strategic vision for the business provides secretariat services for each assesses the skills, knowledge and experience currently of the Committees.
Committee meeting represented agendas, papers and minutes are made available to all members identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a scrutiny of the Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use candidate is selected that brings those traits whatever resources they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position specification that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation retained to conduct a global search.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the specification contains criteria such as: BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 39 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.1 Risk and Audit Committee report The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor during its term of appointment against specified criteria, The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met including delivering value to shareholders and ourselves.
nine times during the year.
Its members The RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity are Mr David Crawford Chairman, of the External Auditor.
This review includes: Dr David Brink, Dr David Jenkins and confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, Mr Jacques Nasser all of whom are independent of the Group independent non-executive Directors.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all The Board has nominated Mr David Crawford relationships between the External Auditor and the Group as the Committees financial expert.
Mr David Crawford monitoring the number of former employees of the External Auditor currently employed in senior positions and assessing Role and focus whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the the External Auditors judgement or independence decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group and to gain considering whether the various relationships between the assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear Objective within the CEOs limits.
The RAC undertakes this to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence by overseeing: determining whether the compensation of individuals the integrity of the financial statements employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether and performance of the external auditor and the integrity of this impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors the audit process as a whole judgement or independence the performance and leadership of the internal audit function reviewing the economic importance of the Groups business the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk to the External Auditor and assessing whether that management importance impairs, or appears to impair, the External compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements Auditors judgement or independence.
compliance by management with constraints imposed The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
We have a policy governing the This Policy on Provision CSG Risk and Audit Committees conduct of non-audit work by the of Other Services by the External Auditor.
Under the Non-Audit To assist management in providing the information necessary External Auditor can Services Policy the External Auditor be viewed at to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, separate Risk www.
com cannot provide services where the and Audit Committees have been established for each of the aboutus governance.
External Auditor: Customer Services Groups CSG and key functional areas.
These Committees, known as CSG RACs, have been established may be required to audit its own work and operate as committees of management but are chaired participates in activities that would normally be undertaken by members of the RAC or by other external appointees with by management appropriate skills and experience.
They perform an important is remunerated through a success fee structure monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
acts in an advocacy role for our business.
Management reports on significant matters raised at CSG RAC Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year meetings to the RAC.
for audit and other services were US$17.9 million, of which 59 per cent comprised audit-related fees, 37 per cent related Activities undertaken during the year to other legislative requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley Integrity of financial statements and 4 per cent other services.
Details of the fees paid are The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of set out in section 12 of the Directors Report and in note 4 the financial statements.
The RAC evaluates and makes Expenses to the financial statements in the Annual Report.
recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, the External Auditor is independent.
compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
Internal audit It reviews the half yearly and annual financial statements The internal audit function is carried out internally by Group and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions Audit Services GAS.
The role of GAS is to determine whether including formal adoption of the financial statements and risk management, control and governance processes are reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the adequate and functioning.
The internal audit function is integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time independent of the External Auditor.
The Boards RAC reviews the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the the mission and charter of GAS, the staffing levels and its release of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders scope of work to ensure that it is appropriate in light of the and the financial community.
It also reviews and approves the annual The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2007 financial internal audit plan.
statements present a true and fair view, in all material The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the respects, of our financial condition and operating results Vice President Risk Management and Assurance and assesses and are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
his or her performance, independence and objectivity.
The role External Auditor of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance includes achievement of the internal audit objectives: enterprise-wide The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor risk management systems, risk management information on behalf of the Board.
It recommends to the Board potential systems and insurance strategy.
The position is held by auditors for appointment and the terms of engagement, Mr Stefano Giorgini.
Mr Giorgini reports to management including remuneration.
In December 2003, the Board, on and has all necessary access to management and the right the recommendation of the RAC, approved the appointment to see information and explanations, and has unfettered of KPMG.
Shareholders are asked to approve reappointment access to the RAC.
of the auditors each year in the UK.
40 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 Effectiveness of systems of internal control and and Executive Committee, as appropriate, to allow timely risk management decisions regarding required disclosure.
In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established We conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures are CEO limits in the Board Governance Document.
One of the effective in providing that reasonable assurance.
In reaching limits is to ensure that there is a system of control in place for that conclusion we recognise that any controls and procedures, identifying and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, no matter how well designed and operated, have the inherent review the systems that have been established for this purpose limitation that they can provide only reasonable, not absolute, and regularly review their effectiveness.
assurance that: The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures and reviews the internal controls and risk management systems.
are met In undertaking this role the RAC reviews the following: all control issues and instances of fraud, if any have occurred, procedures for identifying business risks and controlling have been detected.
their financial impact on the Group and the operational Further, when designing and evaluating possible disclosure effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to controls and procedures for the Group, our management is risk and control required to apply its judgement with respect to the relevant the budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting costs and benefits of the various internal controls.
systems and controls During the year, the Group undertook a major process initiative policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, over its financial processes and systems which have led to reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of enhanced controls over financial reporting.
In all other respects, business conduct and whistle-blowing procedures there have been no changes in our internal control over procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory financial reporting as that term is defined by the Securities and legal requirements Exchange Act during the year ended 30 June 2007 that have arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, non-physical assets our internal control over financial reporting.
the operational effectiveness of the CSG RAC structures Assessment of RAC performance overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and allocation of responsibilities for monitoring internal During the year the Committee assessed its performance financial controls in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of that assessment the Committee is satisfied it has met the RAC policies, information systems and procedures for preparation and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock Terms of Reference.
exchanges and the financial community.
5.2 Remuneration Committee report For further discussion on our approach to risk management refer to section 6 in this Statement.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year.
Its members During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the are Dr John Buchanan Chairman, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the Dr David Jenkins, the Hon Gail fide Planque financial year and up to the date of this Review in accordance and Mr Carlos Cordeiro.
All of the with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Committee members are independent Turnbull Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations non-executive Directors.
Mr Gordon Clark published by the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate of Kepler Associates acts as an independent Governance Council.
These reviews covered financial, Dr John Buchanan adviser to the Committee.
operational and compliance controls and risk assessment.
The review was overseen by the RAC with findings and Role and focus recommendations reported to the Board.
In addition to The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its considering key risks facing the Group, the Board received oversight of: an assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over the remuneration policy and its specific application to the key risks identified through the work of the Board Committees.
The Board is satisfied that the effectiveness of the internal CEO, the executive Directors and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application to all employees controls has been properly reviewed.
the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans CEO and CFO certification the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial approval of reward to the CEOs direct reports statements are founded on a sound system of risk management the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, and internal compliance and that the system is operating by giving guidance to the Chairman efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
the communication to shareholders on remuneration policy During the year the RAC reviewed our response to the and the Committees work on behalf of the Board, including obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion particular, progress in evaluating and documenting internal in the Annual Report controls as required by section 404 of the Act, which is applied compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements to the business in the year ended 30 June 2007. associated with remuneration matters.
The CEO and CFO, along with the management team, have Activities undertaken during the year performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 59 30 June 2007.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the material financial of this Annual Review.
and non-financial information required to be disclosed is During the year the Committee assessed its performance recorded, processed, summarised and reported on a timely in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of basis and that such information is accumulated and that assessment the Committee is satisfied that it has met communicated to the members of the Office of Chief Executive the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 41 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.3 Nomination Committee report 5.4 Sustainability Committee report The Nomination Committee met six times The Sustainability Committee met four during the year.
The members of the times during the year.
The current members Committee are Mr Don Argus Chairman, of the Committee are Dr John Schubert Dr John Buchanan and Dr John Schubert.
Chairman, Mr Paul Anderson and the All members of the Committee are Hon Gail fide Planque.
All members of the independent non-executive Directors.
Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Dr John Schubert replaced Dr David Brink as Chairman in March 2007.
Mr Don Argus Dr John Schubert Following a review of its performance, the Committee revised its Terms of Role and focus Reference during the year and its membership.
The Committee The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the Board also assessed its performance as required in its Terms of is comprised of individuals who are best able to discharge the Reference and is satisfied that it is meeting the Terms responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the highest of Reference.
It does so by focusing on: Role and focus reviewing the skills represented on the Board and identifying skills that may be required The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board retaining the services of independent search firms and in its oversight of: identifying suitable candidates for the Board our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory overseeing the review of the assessment of the performance requirements associated with health, safety, environment of individual Directors and making recommendations to and community matters the Board on the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking our performance in relation to health, safety, environment re-election refer to section 4.2 of this Statement and community matters communicating to shareholders on the work of the Committee the performance and leadership of the health, safety on behalf of the Board.
and environment function and the sustainable development function Activities undertaken during the year health, safety, environment and community risks There were significant changes to the composition of the Board our Annual Summary Sustainability Report during the year.
The CEO, Mr Charles Goodyear, indicated his communication to shareholders on the work of the Committee intention to resign as CEO toward the end of September 2007. on behalf of the Board.
Mr Marius Kloppers will be appointed CEO from 1 October 2007.
Mr Miklos Salamon resigned as an executive Director Sustainable development governance in October 2006 and Mr Chris Lynch resigned as an executive Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development Director in June 2007.
The Committee retained the services governance is characterised by: of Heidrick & Struggles and Egon Zehnder to assist in the the Sustainability Committee overseeing the health, safety, identification of potential candidates for the Board.
environment and community HSEC matters across the Group business line management having primary responsibility and accountability for HSEC performance the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, as well as through a series of networks across the business seeking input and insight from external experts such as our Forum for Corporate Responsibility clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
Activities undertaken during the year During the year the Sustainability A copy of the Summary Committee considered the Groups and Full report can be Climate Change Policy, reports on found at HSEC audits, reviewed the Groups www.
performance against the HSEC public targets and the Key Performance Indicators for the HSEC and Sustainable Development functions.
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the Vice President Health, Safety and Environment and the Vice President Sustainable Development.
The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the annual Sustainability Summary Report for publication.
The Sustainability Summary Report identifies our targets for health, safety, environment and community matters and its performance against those targets.
