Glossary A$ Long Term Incentive Plan Australian dollars being the currency of the Commonwealth Current share scheme.
Market value American Depositary Share The market value based on closing prices, or, in instances when an A share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale price achieved.
to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies Occupational illness and trade them on the stock exchanges in the US.
An ADS is the actual share trading, while an American Depositary Receipt represents An occupational illness is an illness that occurs as a consequence a bundle of ADSs or evidence of the trade.
One ADS is equal to two of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
Abbreviates illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, absorption, to ADS.
BHP Billiton Office of Chief Executive Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, Members include the executive Directors and other direct reports BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Board Option The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price issued under the rules of the GIS.
Current share plans Performance share Share plans that have been implemented since June 2001 under the dual listed company BHP Billiton.
The current share plans consist of A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, subject Group Incentive Scheme GIS and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules of the LTIP.
Deferred share Performance share plan 2000 2001 A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share issued Legacy share scheme.
Abbreviates to PSP 2000 2001. under the rules of the GIS.
Share DLC merger A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton.
The Dual Listed Companies merger between BHP Billiton Limited Shareplus and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
All employee share purchase plan.
DLC structure Total Recordable Injuries Frequency Rate The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
Total Recordable Injuries Fatalities Lost Time Cases Restricted Employee Share Plan 1999 2000 Work Cases Medical Treatment Cases 1,000,000 work hours.
Expected value Total shareholder return Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome weighted The change in share price plus dividends reinvested.
This measure takes into account the difficulty of Abbreviates to TSR.
achieving performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology also takes US$ into account factors such as volatility, forfeiture risk, etc.
Currency of the United States of America and the currency the BHP Billiton Group uses in publishing its consolidated FY2006 financial statements.
Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2006.
FY2007 Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2007.
Group BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
Group Incentive Scheme Current share scheme.
Key Management Personnel Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly including executive Directors, and non-executive Directors.
Key Performance Indicator Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual businesses and executives in any one year.
