Sustainability Report continued We continued to encourage the reporting of near miss events, 4.7 Safe workplaces as these provide valuable free lessons in preventing fatalities and Our values injuries.
Specifically, we have stepped up our efforts to reduce the number of repeat near miss events and events where all controls Our approach to safety is driven by our care for our people, which is consistent with our Charter values.
We seek to create a mindset are breached.
We have improved our ability to analyse data to determine potential sources of future risk and are issuing monthly and an environment where people believe it is possible to work injury free regardless of whom they are, where they are in the alerts on key sources of potential risk.
We are also reviewing our Incident Cause and Analysis Methodology guidelines to improve world, what role they undertake, or in which business they work.
We also know that good safety is the key to good business, thus our effectiveness in implementing corrective action.
enabling our ongoing improvement and success.
We have positioned our Global Safety Network with both employees and contractors as the primary mechanism for sharing Stakeholder expectations and expanding our collective safety knowledge and experience.
Growth and demand in the resources sector is immense, and there By 30 June 2007, the Network had recorded more than 3,000 is an expectation that our safety values will continue to be the conversations about key safety issues.
driver of our operational focus during these times.
Our performance Stakeholders, including our people, tell us that our approach We are saddened to report eight fatalities occurred during the to safety is right.
We believe we have a balanced mix of focus on both the engineering and systems to identify and control risks, year at our controlled operations.
Each of these incidents has been thoroughly investigated, with lessons learnt shared and and on our people to create and embed safety values, habits and behaviours.
We do not need to introduce more systems: what acted upon across the Company.
we need to do is support our people both employees and We remain determined to eliminate fatalities from our organisation: contractors by striving to have our systems and procedures and, as a result, key performance indicators for 2008 are accessible, understood and adhered to.
Contractors, in particular, predominantly focused on this imperative.
are telling us they face specific challenges in achieving this.
While our experience continues to confirm that low injury We must continue our quest to eliminate fatalities and improve frequency rates do not mean low fatality rates, we are pleased to our ability to manage catastrophic risk, and we know we will not report that in FY2007, both the Total Recordable Injury Frequency be truly successful until we eliminate fatalities from our operations.
Rate TRIFR and the Classified Injury Frequency Rate CIFR We also know that while everyone has a role to play, health and showed an overall improvement.
safety performance is directly related to leadership attention The TRIFR which represents the total number of injuries resulting and focus.
in lost time, restricted work duties or medical treatment per million Stakeholder engagement work hours, decreased from 8.7 to 7.4 in the current year.
The CIFR also decreased from 4.8 to 4.3.
We are working more closely with our contract partners, and we play a leading role with Industry bodies, such as the International Going forward, a new target of a 50 per cent reduction in TRIFR Council of Mining and Metals, the Minerals Council of Australia by 30 June 2012 has been set.
Achieving this level of improvement and the Chamber of Mines in South Africa.
We also have in place will deliver a TRIFR of below 5 considered to be a world-class strategic alliances with key equipment manufacturers.
This, together with our other target of zero fatalities, will take us closer to our stated objectives of Zero Harm We are in the final stages of developing an extranet for our and safety excellence.
contractors that is designed to provide easy and secure access to our controlled HSEC documents, as well as links to relevant Performance against other supporting metrics was solid.
This is being piloted at our African sites Significant Near Miss Reporting Ratio per 100 people, which is our and will be progressively rolled out to other sites.
We also most valuable indicator for improvement, was 2.5, reflecting our conducted a further three CEO contractor seminars to discuss maturity in safety reporting.
how we can work together to drive improvement.
Our approach The recently released BHP Billiton Leadership Model reinforces 12 20 our belief that good safety leadership is good business leadership.
The model, which will be fully integrated into our performance 10 appraisal, development, recruitment and selection processes, is 16 built from our behavioural safety processes, with the leadership 8 attributes and styles based on proven safety excellence.
12 Our primary focus remains the elimination of fatalities, and our 6 key mechanism for this is our Fatal Risk Control Protocols.
During 8 the year, our Fatal Risk Control Protocols self-assessment tool was 4 updated.
Aligned with our HSEC Management Standards, this tool aims to enable sites to better measure current gaps and 4 2 improvement opportunities against the Protocols.
During the year we also initiated a project to address catastrophic 0 0 safety risk.
This is an important complement to our overall suite of tools, as it aims to specifically address the effective management of those risks that can threaten our licence to operate.
Injury Frequency Rates Fatalities at Controlled Operations We are also progressing the Global Light Vehicle Project in 2002 03 to 2006 07 2002 03 to 2006 07 recognition that every day all of our people are exposed to the risks associated with light vehicles, whether they are working CIFR Employees at our sites or simply driving to and from work.
