Key information continued of new aggressive targets to reduce the intensity of gas emissions 1.2 Chairmans Review and energy usage at our operations.
Most significantly, our revised It is comforting to see the strategic direction of a company policy recognises that real behavioural change is required by our delivering on its objectives.
The current fiscal reporting period employees, our customers and our communities and we have has delivered another outstanding result.
pledged to support that process.
Our Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were As you are aware, we have been active in this space for a number US$20.1 billion, our net operating cash flows increased to of years and we are proud of what we have achieved to date.
US$15.6 billion and our total dividend payment for the year We have directed and funded projects to identify low emissions is 47 US cents a share, reflecting the eleventh consecutive technologies for energy generation, participated in the increase in our dividend.
We have not moved away from our development of national climate change policies, examined progressive dividend policy: rather we have rebased the dividend the strategic impacts of climate change on our businesses to reflect our confidence in the insatiability of the demand for and exceeded our targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, commodities over the medium term.
including a 10 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity With our market capitalisation at US$165 billion at 30 June and from 1995 to 2000 and a further five per cent reduction by 2007. a large-scale capital return program, total shareholder returns Corporate Governance for the year continued to break records.
While the board of any company must ensure that a robust High prices across our range of commodities once again played governance structure is in place, my fellow Directors and a significant role in our financial results.
Like our market valuation, I are equally committed to fostering a culture throughout the we have little control over commodity prices, which are largely Company that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, a function of a tight global supply situation.
What we can control personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
Our is our response to the continually increasing demand for the approach to governance is predicated on the belief that there commodities we produce and the way we plan to meet that is a link between high-quality governance and the creation demand into the future to enhance the value of the Company of shareholder value.
The Companys culture will always be formed not only by the We have to be careful that we do not have a myopic concentration Directors, but more significantly, the Chief Executive Officer.
The strength of our strategy is in the balance between optimising current conditions and progressing our We have been fortunate in having an outstanding Chief Executive Officer in Chip Goodyear for the past five years.
Through his pipeline of next generation high-growth opportunities.
leadership, Chip has driven financial and operational success Never before has the industry been in a position where planning within a strong culture of teamwork and integrity.
On behalf of to ensure we maintain our share of growing markets into the my fellow Directors I want to thank him for a tremendous effort future has been so important.
and wish him and his family well for their future.
Essentially, our strategy is to ensure we have a suite of long-life, I also want to welcome Marius Kloppers as our new Chief low-cost assets, diversified by geography and commodity, that Executive Officer on 1 October 2007.
The Board conducted an can be expanded and that are largely export-oriented.
The growth extensive global search to ensure we identified the best possible opportunities implicit in this strategy mean we can move quickly to candidate to succeed Chip.
It is immensely satisfying that such an increase capacity from an existing operation when we determine exhaustive process made clear to us that the best person for the that global demand warrants such an expansion.
role was one of our existing executives, demonstrating the success At the end of the last financial year, we were conducting final of our internal succession program.
I am very much looking assessments what we call feasibility stage for 15 major projects forward to working with Marius and watching him make his mark and, during the year, we approved the development of three on this outstanding Company.
We have many more high-growth opportunities With changes to our senior management team during the year in the pipeline.
and Chips retirement at the end of this calendar year, the Boards We are a value-driven Company whose Board makes its decisions renewal process continues.
This year, Dr David Brink is retiring.
He brought to the Board deep operating experience in the While shareholder value is our primary driver, every decision mining sector and an intimate knowledge of the South African the Board makes takes into account the needs and expectations environment, and we will miss his insightful contributions.
of all our stakeholders: customers, resource owners, communities On behalf of the Board I extend our sincere appreciation and wish and governments, partners, suppliers and our employees.
We continue to assess the performance of each Board member as well as the collective effort of the Board Corporate Responsibility as a whole and we engage external search firms to locate people To ensure we continue to meet growing global demand for with specific skills in the areas of finance, mining and project commodities requires that, as well as progressing our existing management, to ensure that renewal of Board membership is growth opportunities, we actively compete for access to undertaken in an orderly manner.
I thank all my fellow Directors for undeveloped resources in regions throughout the world.
their contribution and commitment through the year.
In many cases, the governments and communities of these Outlook regions recognise that the development of their natural resources with the right choice of industry partner can dramatically improve The global economy remains robust, driven by solid activity in Asia their economic and social development.
Growth in Chinas demand for raw materials should continue and place ongoing pressure on the global supply of The best way we can demonstrate why BHP Billiton should be commodities.
Structurally higher cost sources of supply will be the partner of choice to develop these resources, many of which required and this, combined with higher energy prices, is likely to are in regions such as Africa, Asia and the former Soviet Union, have a flow-on effect to commodity prices.
Over the medium term is to point to our track record of benefiting the communities and we expect commodity prices to move towards long-run marginal environments in which we operate.
We have numerous examples costs of supply but, in the interim, prices are likely to stay high that demonstrate our absolute commitment to improving the relative to historical levels, albeit with increased volatility.
quality of life of the communities we work with and to minimising harm to the environment.
This Report touches on some of that work but I strongly encourage you to visit the sustainable development area of our website at www.
com to read about some of the programs we run throughout the world.
Our journey in response to the global issue of climate change reached a new milestone during this year with our implementation Don Argus 6 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
