5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 115 Our approach 4.8 Environmental commitment We have a mature system to actively manage environmental Our values impacts at all phases from exploration and development through Our earths natural resources are our primary products, and we to operation, closure and rehabilitation.
recognise that the efficient and responsible use of these resources During the year, we revised our Climate Change Policy to is critical to maximising Company value and sustainability.
We also reflect the concerns and aspirations of a range of stakeholders.
recognise the impact of the resource development process on the In addition to increasing our financial commitment to research natural environment, including the risk of pollution, impacting and development, we have committed to targets to reduce the biodiversity and generating greenhouse gas emissions.
Our intensity of our emissions in production, improve energy efficiency, commitments to minimising environmental impact, reducing improve our understanding of life cycle emissions, and work greenhouse gas emissions, improve our rate of water recycling, collaboratively with others.
We have engaged all our businesses and preventing pollution underpin our licence to operate.
in seeking to achieve improvements in energy efficiency, while recognising the value of targeting our efforts at businesses that Stakeholder expectations use the most energy in production, such as our Aluminium CSG, The worlds demand for resources continues to grow.
As the or create the most emissions in the use of the product, such as worlds largest diversified resource development company, we our Energy Coal CSG.
Effectively reducing our total greenhouse understand we play an important role in providing the resources emissions, however, presents an ongoing challenge as mines age needed for development and, at the same time, in helping society and we use more energy to extract the resource.
We are also enhancing our commitment to recycling with a new While scientists, governments, our local communities and target of a 10 per cent improvement in the ratio of water recycled employees continue to tell us that mitigating climate change, or reused to fresh water consumed.
accessing clean water and conserving biodiversity remain their critical environmental concerns, we are also hearing that these We are taking a proactive approach to biodiversity protection challenges are converging.
In developing our response, we by developing a biodiversity assessment tool that will assist must set and achieve strong individual targets, as well as work sites to identify biodiversity impact risks.
We are also seeking collectively with governments and NGOs, and foster strong opportunities to address regional biodiversity impacts outside public support.
the footprint of our assets, and in this regard we have mapped the location of our operations in relation to World Heritage We are hearing that the challenges are both complex and diverse Natural Sites and internationally recognised biodiversity hotspots.
but that opportunities lie with being more efficient and innovative in our approach to extracting and using resources, and in working We have reinforced our commitment to land management with with our suppliers, processors and users of our products to the introduction of a new target to increase our rate of land promote sustainability.
This target embraces our approach to life-of-asset planning, recognising that rehabilitation and Stakeholder engagement sustainable closure land use are essential parts of our To better understand and mitigate the impact of our mining stewardship approach.
activities and our products on climate change, we are working Our performance in partnership with governments, academia, industry associations, NGOs and other businesses.
We have committed US$300 million Over the last five years we have experienced improvements over five years to research and development, including the US in environmental performance against all of our targets including FutureGen project, COAL21 and the CO Cooperative Research a six per cent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity, four per cent 2 Centre in Australia.
We are also working with the Australian reduction in water intensity, three per cent reduction in general Government to define a National Carbon Emissions Trading System, waste intensity and 50 per cent reduction in hazardous waste and we continue to build our emissions trading profile in Europe.
While production volumes for our major products have increased significantly over the past three years, the Companys We are working to address the challenge of maintaining levels total energy consumption has decreased, and greenhouse gas of water availability for our businesses in both the developed emissions have remained relatively stable.
and developing world by working with host governments and communities on local water use and discharge issues.
As a result of our mining activities, we currently have 107,310 hectares of land to be rehabilitated and are managing 41,720 To further our knowledge about biodiversity, we are working hectares of rehabilitated land.
with Conservation International and others to enhance our understanding of local biodiversity issues.
We are also working We continued to support biodiversity research, with US$3.5 million with Proteus Partners, a partnership between industry, the World expenditure in research and development.
We had no significant Conservation Monitoring Centre and United Nations Environment environmental incidents and incurred four environmental fines Programme, to assist in the redevelopment of the World Database totalling US$37,387.
The ability to accurately identify protected Going forward, our current performance results have formed areas and those of conservation significance assists us in the basis for identifying areas that require enhanced focus or managing biodiversity risk.
performance improvement, and these are reflected in our new targets for greenhouse gases, energy, water and land management.
In 2004, we established a Closure Standard that applies to all phases of our activities from exploration to final land release.
At the end of June 2007, all sites reported that their closure planning activities conform to the Standard.
Key aspects of the Standard include having a documented closure plan for all activities and identifying closure-related risks.
Global warming potential factors were changed to be consistent with the Second Assessment Report IPCC 1996 values in 2006 07, which decreased the greenhouse gas intensity by 0.6%.
