5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 49 Global Technology has research and development centres in Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural Australia Newcastle and Perth and South Africa Johannesburg.
resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
The rights to It also has a presence in Beijing to manage our expanding Chinese explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us by the research and development program, and in Antofagasta Chile to government that owns those natural resources that we wish to support South American operations.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
2.7 Business Excellence Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of Business Excellence, our improvement program, seeks to increase environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health revenues, decrease costs and improve operational efficiency by and safety, and native land title with which we must comply in determining the most efficient and effective practices and applying order to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our operations them across the organisation.
These obligations often require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise or remediate the The strategy to achieve this is to embed in all businesses an environmental impact of our operations, to ensure the safety of excellence cycle that includes: our employees and contractors and the like.
For further evaluation of business performance against an Excellence information on these types of obligations, refer to section 4 of this Framework Annual Report.
an improvement planning process to prioritise and plan business improvements Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: a process improvement methodology Six Sigma capture and quantification of the financial benefits of business 2.8.
1 South African Mining Charter improvements As outlined in section 1.5 of this Annual Report, the Mineral and transfer of improvement projects across all assets through Petroleum Resources Development Act 2002 MPRDA took effect organisation-wide Networks on 1 May 2004.
It provides for state custodianship of all mineral deposits and abolishes the prior system of privately held mineral Improvement projects like these are carried out in every operation.
rights, and is administered by the Department of Minerals and The real benefit for us is in sharing projects across the Group so Energy of South Africa.
Holders of rights granted under the they can be replicated.
This is achieved through our knowledge previous system, known as Old Order Rights, must apply to sharing Networks and Communities of Practice CoPs.
Currently, convert their rights to New Order Rights prior to 30 April 2009. there are 300 CoPs with over 6,000 technical experts sharing innovative ideas and experience and Group-developed best In order for the conversions to be effected, we will be required to practices electronically, by phone and face-to-face in workshops.
comply with the terms of the Broad Based Socio Economic This work is supported by business leaders and resourced by a Empowerment Charter Mining Charter, which has been published dedicated team.
The Mining Charter requires holders of mining rights to achieve 26 per cent ownership participation by historically By effectively harnessing technical expertise in mine operations, disadvantaged South Africans in their mining operations by 30 mine planning, maintenance, processing and our outbound supply April 2014, of which 15 per cent needs to be achieved by 30 April chain, Business Excellence helps people find solutions quickly and 2009. builds teamwork across our globally diverse organisation.
The MPRDA and the Mining Charter are not specific as to how the 26 per cent will be measured for example, value or tonnage or a 2.8 Government regulations combination of both.
As a result, the South African Government Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
published a scorecard that provides guidelines for measuring the However, because of the geographical diversity of our operations, progress of mining companies towards meeting the requirements no one set of government regulations is likely to have a material of the Mining Charter.
Under the scorecard approach, the effect on our business, taken as a whole.
requirements for conversion deal not only with ownership, but also with such aspects as management, procurement and social The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental development.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
Accordingly, We support the broad objectives of the Mining Charter, most of we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government that which accord with long-established programs that we have under owns the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights usually take the way.
We are already a prominent participant in the South African form of a lease or licence, which gives us the right to access the empowerment processes, including various empowerment land and extract the product.
The terms of the lease or licence, transactions, corporate social investment through the BHP Billiton including the time period for which it is effective, are specific to Development Trust and the Samancor Foundation, and in the laws of the relevant government.
Generally, we own the employment and procurement equity across our operation.
product we extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the 2.8.
2 Uranium production in Australia government.
Some of our operations, such as our oil and gas operations in Trinidad and Tobago and Algeria, are subject to To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, production sharing contracts under which both we as the we are required to hold possession and export permissions, which contractor and the government are entitled to a share of the are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government or production.
Under such production sharing contracts, the bodies that report to the Australian Government.
contractor is entitled to recover its exploration and production To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, a costs from a governments share of production.
Permit to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the held pursuant to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards Act minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant 1987 Cth Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued by government to grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office the extracted material in order to ready it for sale.
established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and reports to the Australian Government.
To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Customs Prohibited Exports Regulations 1958 Cth.
The Export Permit is issued by the Minister for Industry, Tourism and Resources.
