Legal proceedings Class Action concerning Cerrejon privatisation We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and governmental investigations of a character normally incidental The NGO, Corporacion Colombia Transparente CCT brought three to our business, including claims and pending actions against us separate class actions Popular Actions numbers 1,029, 1,032 and seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory 1,048 against various defendants in connection with the inquiries regarding business practices.
In many cases, insurance privatisation of 50 per cent of the Cerrejon Zona Norte mining or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to complex in Colombia in 2002.
The complex is currently owned by such claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group Cerrejon Zona Norte SA CZN and Carbones del Cerrejon Limited of a successful claim.
Our subsidiary Billiton Investment 3 BV owns a 33 per cent share in CDC, and our subsidiaries Billiton Investment 3 BV and This section summarises the significant legal proceedings and Billiton Investment 8 BV BHP Billiton Shareholders collectively investigations in which we are currently involved.
own a 33.33 per cent share in CZN.
The BHP Billiton Shareholders Pinal Creek Miami Wash area have been named as defendants in Popular Action 1,048, and BHP Billiton Company BV, BHP Billitons original bidder for the BHP Copper Inc is involved in litigation concerning groundwater complex, has been named as a defendant in Popular Action 1,029. contamination resulting from historic mining operations near the Pinal Creek Miami Wash area located in the State of Arizona, BHP Billiton Company BV was served with process in 2005 US.
The details of this litigation are set out in footnote c to note and filed a response in Action 1,029.
None of the BHP Billiton 21 Provisions in the financial statements.
Shareholders have been served with process.
CCT alleges, in part, that the defendants failed to comply with Rio Algom Pension Plan the privatisation process, and that the offer price for shares In June 2003, Alexander E. Lomas, a retired member of the Pension in CZN between Stages 1 and 2 of the privatisation process Plan for Salaried Employees of Rio Algom Mines Limited Plan, was not correctly adjusted for inflation.
filed a Notice of Application in a representative capacity in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice Commercial List against Rio CCT claims that an additional Col$25,487,367,179, which would Algom Limited RAL and the Plan Trustee alleging certain be an adjustment of the CZN share price and if converted to improprieties in their administration of the Plan and use of Plan year 2000 US dollars would yield the amount of approximately funds from January 1966 onward.
US$12,000,000 our share US$4 million, is due or, in the alternative, a declaration that the privatisation is null and void Based on those allegations, Mr Lomas claims a breach by and forfeiture of the transfer price paid of Col$849,554,231,321, RAL of its employment contracts with salaried employees, a which if converted to year 2000 US dollars would yield the amount breach of trust and of the Trust Agreement underlying the Plan, of approximately US$400,000,000 our share approximately a breach of the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario, and abuse by US$133 million, and in both instances, together with unquantified RAL of both its authority and fiduciary duty.
sanctions, including payment of stamp taxes, an award of 15 per Mr Lomas makes claims for quantified monetary relief, for himself cent of all monies recovered by the defendants, together with and those Plan members he purports to represent, of: interest on all amounts at the maximum rate authorised by law.
US$119 million C$125 million on account of monies alleged On 8 May 2007, a further action Action number 1667 was filed to have been improperly paid out or withheld from the Plan, against CZN.
CZN has sought to have this new but related action together with compound interest calculated from the date dismissed on the basis that it is a replica of Popular Action 1032. of each alleged wrongdoing, and punitive, aggravated and exemplary damages in the sum During the first quarter of 2005, the Council of State applied a of US1.9 million C$2.00 million.
new legal interpretation applicable to popular actions in Colombia providing that plaintiffs may not file additional class actions based Mr Lomas also makes various claims for non-quantified relief.
on the same facts and legal arguments as existing actions.
As a Mr Lomas delivered his supporting affidavit in June 2004. consequence, the court nullified all proceedings in Popular Action RAL subsequently filed its affidavit in response.
Mr Lomas filed 1,029 with effect from 20 May 2004 also being the date that a Reply and Supplementary Affidavit in May 2007.
Popular Actions 1,028, and 1,048 were joined and dismissed Popular Action 1,048.
All shareholder defendants contend that Mr Lomas purports to represent members of the defined benefits the nullification means that the service of process in Action 1,029, portion of the Plan.
On 19 May 2005, a consent order was and respective responses, which would include process served obtained compelling Mr Lomas to add all other interested on BHP Billiton Company BV and its response, are null and void.
parties to the Application, in particular members of the defined contributions portion of the Plan.
The defined contribution The plaintiff appealed the courts decision in relation to Popular members have now been included as parties to this action.
Actions 1,029, and 1,048, and the Council of State confirmed the previous decision by which all proceedings of Popular Actions A motion to strike Mr Lomas request for Plan wind-up was heard 1,029, and 1,048 had been nullified.
The plaintiff was granted on 27 November 2006.
Leave has been sought by RAL to appeal the right of a second appeal, and a decision on this second appeal the decision denying the motion was granted to RAL in May 2007. is now pending.
A hearing on the merits of the appeal will take place in October 2007.
Popular Action 1032 is in the discovery stage.
This matter was RAL has notified its insurers of the Application and has advised transferred to an Administrative Judge.
The plaintiff filed a petition other third parties of possible claims against them in respect of to annul the proceedings, which petition was rejected by the matters alleged in the Application.
The plaintiff has appealed this decision.
Legal proceedings continued Bass Strait Longford In a related matter, in February 2005, FMG instituted proceedings in the Federal Court appealing the decisions of the NCC that the On 23 November 2004, BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd Goldsworthy line was part of a production process.
issued proceedings against the operator of the Gippsland Basin joint venture, Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd, and Esso Australia The trial concluded on 24 October 2006.
Pty Ltd collectively Esso, in the Supreme Court of Victoria seeking On 18 December 2006, the court found that the relevant facts in compensation for the loss and damage suffered by BHP Billiton relation to the Mt Newman and Goldsworthy lines were Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd arising from the 25 September 1998 indistinguishable from the facts in relation to the Hamersley line explosion and fire at the Longford facility, Victoria, Australia.
While over which third party access has previously been sought.
the court process has required BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait However, the court declined to follow the case relating to the Pty Ltd to particularise its loss prior to trial based on the best Hamersley line, and concluded that neither the Mt Newman line information available, the quantum of the claim will be the subject nor the Goldsworthy line was part of a production process.
of evidence in the case, which will be filed and determined in due course.
The damages sought include losses in relation to rebuilding BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd appealed this decision to the and restoring the Longford facilities: additional operating costs Full Court of the Federal Court and the appeal was heard on incurred after the incident: and lost profits.
The Full Court reserved its decision, which has not yet been handed down.
On 29 November 2004, Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd issued proceedings against BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd in With respect to FMGs application to the NCC in relation to the Supreme Court of Victoria, claiming that BHP Billiton Petroleum the Mt Newman line, the NCC delivered its recommendation Bass Strait Pty Ltd has wrongfully withheld certain costs in in respect of a declaration of that line to the relevant decision connection with the Longford incident, and is seeking damages maker ultimately being the Federal Treasurer on 24 March 2006. of approximately US$85.19 million A$100.53 million plus interest.
On 23 May 2006, the Treasurer issued a press release stating that, This amount includes, amongst other things, a half share of the as he had not published a decision to declare the Mt Newman line A$32.5 million court approved settlement reached in late 2004 within the statutory period of 60 days from the date of the NCCs of all claims in a class action commenced against Esso on behalf of recommendation, it is taken that a decision not to declare has Victorian gas consumers and employees stood down by employers been taken and published.
during the shortage of gas following the Longford incident.
The FMG lodged an appeal against the Treasurers decision with the amount also includes compounding finance charges claimed by Australian Competition Tribunal on 9 June 2006.
Three directions Esso on the amounts alleged to have been withheld by BHP Billiton hearings have been held before the President of the Australian Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd a component of Essos claim which Competition Tribunal and Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto has been is expected to continue to accumulate with the passage of time.
The most recent directions hearing BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltds proceeding against took place on 8 June 2007, at which time the President of the Esso and Essos proceeding against BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Tribunal rejected the submissions of BHPBIO and Rio Tinto that the Strait Pty Ltd have been consolidated into a single proceeding Tribunal have a preliminary hearing to determine whether it had with the intention they be heard together.
power to hear FMGs appeal and, if so, the limits of those powers.
Esso has joined BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty Ltd Following the directions hearing on 8 June 2007, Rio Tinto applied as a third party to the proceedings.
BHP Billiton Petroleum to the Federal Court for an order prohibiting the Tribunal from North West Shelf Pty Ltd originally held the Gippsland Basin hearing FMGs appeal and for other relief.
joint venture interest before assigning it to BHP Billiton Petroleum It is likely that, if Rio Tintos application fails, the Tribunal will Bass Strait Pty Ltd. not hear FMGs appeal until the second quarter of 2008.
BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd continues to take Inquiry into certain Australian companies in relation to the pre-trial steps necessary to prepare this matter so that it is ready UN Oil-For-Food Programme to be set down for trial at a date to be determined in due course by the Court.
In November 2005, a Royal Commission of Inquiry Inquiry was established by the Australian Government into certain Australian In view of the value of this claim referred to above, this matter companies in relation to their involvement with the United Nations is no longer considered material to the Group and we do not Oil-for-Food Programme.
We cooperated with the Inquiry from the intend to include it in future reports.
outset, and produced documents in response to notices received Mt Newman and Goldsworthy railway lines from the Commissioner.
In addition, several current and former employees of the BHP Billiton Group appeared before the Inquiry In June 2004, Fortescue Metals Group Limited FMG applied as witnesses.
to the National Competition Council NCC to have the use of part of the Mt Newman railway line and part of the Goldsworthy The Inquiry Report was released on 27 November 2006.
In it, the railway line declared as a service under Part IIIA of the Trade Inquirys Commissioner found that there was no basis for adverse Practices Act 1974 Cth TPA.
The NCC released decisions on two findings as to possible breaches of the law by the BHP Billiton Group preliminary issues in respect of the matter.
The NCC found that companies or any of their current or former officers or employees.
the two railway lines each provide a separate service, and that An internal review into the matters raised by the Inquiry that the Mt Newman line service is capable of being considered further concerned the BHP Billiton Group was released on 29 November for declaration, while the Goldsworthy line service is not because 2006.
The conclusions reached by the internal review were it is part of a production process.
consistent with the findings of the Commissioner that there In December 2004, BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd BHPIO lodged was no breach of law by the BHP Billiton Group.
The internal an application with the Federal Court in Melbourne: review recommended that a number of actions should be taken seeking a declaration that the Mt Newman line service is not to enhance our systems and processes and these actions have been implemented.
A copy of the outcome of the internal review a service within the meaning of s44B of the TPA, and that the NCC does not have the jurisdiction or power to deal with FMGs can be found at www.
application or to make a recommendation regarding declaration In view of the findings of this Inquiry, this matter is no longer of the Mt Newman railway and considered material to the Group, and we do not intend to include seeking an order or permanent injunction preventing the NCC it in future reports.
from further dealing with the FMG application and or making a recommendation regarding declaration of the Mt Newman line.
170 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 171 Australian Taxation Office assessments The Australian Taxation Office ATO has issued assessments against subsidiary companies, primarily BHP Billiton Finance Ltd, in respect of 19992002 financial years.
The assessments relate to the deductibility of bad debts in respect of funding subsidiaries that undertook the Beenup, Boodarie Iron and Hartley projects.
Appeals have been lodged in the Federal Court against the assessments.
Federal Court appeals were lodged in the primary proceedings on 17 July 2006 and the ATOs appeal statement was received on 1 December 2006.
BHP Billiton Finance Ltd filed its appeal statement on 30 April 2007 and must file its affidavits by 12 November 2007.
The next directions hearing is scheduled for 30 November 2007.
As at 30 June 2007, the total amount in dispute relating to bad debts on loans is approximately US$1,006 million, comprising primary tax of US$586 million and US$420 million interest and penalties after tax.
An amount of US$541 million in respect of the disputed amounts has been paid pursuant to ATO disputed assessments guidelines.
The amounts paid have been recognised as a reduction of the Groups net tax liabilities.
Upon any successful challenge of the assessments, any sums paid will be refundable with interest.
Judicial review proceedings have been commenced in the Federal Court to challenge the ATOs decision not to reduce the interest imposed in respect of loss transferees.
The proceedings have been adjourned to enable the BHP Billiton Finance Ltd appeal to proceed first.
Former Operations Ok Tedi Mining Limited Seven individual plaintiffs said to be representing the members of seven clans from the vicinity of the Ok Tedi mine have obtained an order of the National Court of Papua New Guinea joining BHP Billiton Limited as a defendant to proceedings against the current shareholders of Ok Tedi Mining Limited OTML and its current managing director.
OTML is the owner and operator of the Ok Tedi mine.
BHP Billiton transferred all of its shareholding In OTML to PNG Sustainable Development Programme Company Limited in February 2002.
The claim seeks various declarations and orders but the causes of action which the plaintiffs must establish in order to obtain those declarations and orders have not been pleaded.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendants were negligent in not preventing hazardous waste from entering the water system.
Private nuisance, public nuisance, trespass and breaches of domestic and international law are also alleged.
The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages for numerous matters, including contamination of the environment and adverse affects to fishing, drinking water, irrigation of crops and washing and also seek US$3.75 billion in exemplary damages.
The originating summons was filed in October 2006.
The order granting leave to join BHP Billiton Limited was granted on 8 December 2006.
Although BHP Billiton had not been formally served with proceedings, on 5 June 2007 a Notice of Intention to Defend was filed.
All defendants have filed applications seeking to have the proceedings set aside.
Hearing of those applications has been adjourned to 13 September 2007.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 171 5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 172 This page has been left blank intentionally 172 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
