Its our capacity to meet demand Our project pipeline Our Spence copper operation Our world-class assets represent a range of valuable growth opportunities.
In the past in Chile will reach full capacity six years we have completed 33 projects spanning our entire portfolio of commodities.
This capacity to increase production volumes to meet growing global demand has been During its construction, a critical factor in enabling us to capture the current high commodity prices.
the workforce peaked at Many of our most significant assets have undergone almost continuous expansion over more than 5,000 people and the past six years.
During that time, our share of production from the Western Australia the project was recognised iron ore assets, for example, has grown from 58.3 Mt to 91.6 Mt, while production from the by the Chilean National Escondida copper operation in Chile has increased from 500,700 tonnes to 765,000 tonnes.
Mining and Geology Service Sernageomin for its safety An unparalleled project pipeline record.
Spences Solvent During the financial year 2007, we approved the development of WA Iron Ore RGP4, Extraction Electrowinning Genghis Khan and Pinto Valley, and we commissioned Spence, in northern Chile, which plant is among the most will produce 200,000 tonnes of copper a year.
When we acquired WMC in 2005, we added nickel assets in Western Australia and the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold resource in South Australia to our portfolio.
In this past year, we acquired an interest in the Genghis Khan oil field in the Gulf of Mexico and a one-third share of the Guinea Alumina project, which consists of high-quality bauxite reserves and the development of an alumina refinery in Guinea.
Our project pipeline is unparalleled in the resources industry.
It comprises US$14.3 billion of investment in projects that have been approved by the Board and are now under way.
The 19 projects represented by this investment are due to reach full production capacity SINCE JULY 2001, WE HAVE within approximately three years.
Another 14 projects, representing a further US$6.6 billion of investment, are in the final stage of evaluation before being approved.
ANOTHER 33 ARE IN DEVELOPMENT OR IN THE Increasing volumes in 2008 FINAL STAGE OF ASSESSMENT.
In the financial year 2008, we expect to significantly increase production with the delivery of five petroleum projects, three of which are in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
The commissioning of the Ravensthorpe and Yabulu nickel operations and another iron ore expansion, all in Australia, and the completion of the Koala Underground diamond project in northern Canada, add to the increasing 2008 volumes.
We take great pride in delivering our projects on time and within budget.
Despite cost pressures and shortages of labour and materials throughout the industry, we continue to meet our commitments thanks to the technical skill of our people and our global supply and procurement processes.
Antamina, Peru, 2001 Escondida Phase IV, Mozal 2, Mozambique, Ohanet, Algeria, 2003 US$23m under budget, Chile, 2002 2003 On budget, on time on time US$57m under budget, US$94m under budget, on time before time US$752 million US$543 million US$311 million US$464 million 22 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007
