b The prices have been adjusted to reflect the terms of the DLC structure and the bonus issue allotted to BHP Billiton Plc shareholders in July 2002.
Accordingly, historical share prices have been restated to reflect these charges.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Plc at 30 June 2007 was 32.9 billion, which represented approximately 1.44 per cent of the total market capitalisation of all companies listed on the LSE.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares on the LSE on such date was 13.90.
Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Limited 12.5 Taxation Australia taxation The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian In this section references to resident and non-resident refer income tax, UK tax and US federal income tax consequences of to residence status for Australian income tax purposes.
a US holder as hereinafter defined owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
Dividends The discussion is based on the Australian, UK and US tax laws Dividends paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a US holder who or which currently in effect, as well as on the double taxation convention is resident of Australia, or to a non-resident of Australia whose between Australia and the US the Australian Treaty, the double holding is effectively connected with a permanent establishment tax convention between the UK and the US the UK Treaty and the in Australia, may be subject to income tax.
estate tax conventions between the UK and the US the UK Estate Tax Treaty.
For purposes of this discussion, a US holder is a Under the Australian Treaty, dividends paid by BHP Billiton Limited beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for US federal to a US holder who or which is eligible for treaty benefits and income tax purposes, a citizen or individual resident of the US, a whose holding is not effectively connected with a permanent domestic corporation, an estate whose income is subject to US establishment in Australia or, in the case of a shareholder who federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court performs independent personal services from a fixed base can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration situated therein, is not connected with that fixed base, may and one or more US persons are authorised to control all be subject to Australian withholding tax at a rate not exceeding substantial decisions of the trust.
15 per cent of such gross dividend.
We recommend that holders of ordinary shares or ADSs consult Dividends paid to non-residents of Australia are exempt from their own tax advisers regarding the Australian, UK and US federal, withholding tax to the extent to which such dividends are franked state and local tax and other tax consequences of owning and under Australias dividend imputation system or are declared by disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income CFI.
are considered to be franked to the extent that they are paid out of post 198687 income on which Australian income tax has been levied.
CFI is made up of certain amounts that are earned by BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 293 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 294 12.
Shareholder information continued BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to tax in Australia, such as when the holder in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary dividends remitted to Australia by foreign subsidiaries.
Any part in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
of a dividend paid to a US holder that is not franked and is not If you are a non-corporate US holder, dividends paid to you on CFI will generally be subject to Australian withholding tax unless shares or ADSs in taxable years before 1 January 2011 will be a specific exemption applies.
taxable to you at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally at a maximum rate of 15 per cent provided that the Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs ADSs remain readily tradeable on an established securities market A US holder who or which is a resident of Australia other than in the US and you hold the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days certain temporary residents may be liable for income tax on any during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the exprofit on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, or Australian capital dividend date and meet other holding period requirements.
In the gains tax on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs acquired after case of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are 19 September 1985. taxed as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect No income or other tax is payable on any profit on disposal of of dividends received from other US corporations.
ordinary shares or ADSs held by a US holder who or which is a non-resident of Australia except if the profit is of an income nature Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and and sourced in Australia, or the sale is subject to Australian capital profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will gains tax.
Under the Australian Treaty, if the profit is sourced in be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of Australia, it will not be taxable in Australia if it represents business the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter profits of an enterprise carried on by a US holder entitled to treaty as a capital gain.
benefits and the enterprise does not carry on business in Australia Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in through a permanent establishment situated in Australia.
accordance with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia Australian capital gains tax will not generally apply to a disposal will be creditable against your US federal income tax liability.
of the ordinary shares or ADSs by a US holder who or which is Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation non-resident of Australia unless the shares or ADSs have been with respect to dividends that are taxed at the capital gains rate.
acquired after 19 September 1985 and: To the extent a refund of the tax withheld is available to a US the ordinary shares or ADSs have been used by the US holder holder under Australian law or under the Australian Treaty, the in carrying on a trade or business through a permanent amount of tax withheld that is refundable will not be eligible for establishment in Australia: credit against the holders US federal income tax liability.
the US holder together with associates directly or indirectly Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, but owns or owned 10 per cent or more of the issued share capital of generally will be, for taxable years beginning before 1 January BHP Billiton Limited at the time of the disposal or throughout a 2007, passive income or financial services income or, for taxable 12 month period during the 2 years prior to the time of disposal years beginning after 31 December 2006, passive or general and the underlying value of BHP Billiton Limited at the time of income, which in either case is treated separately from other types disposal is principally derived from taxable Australian real of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit property: or allowable to a US holder.
the US holder is an individual who elected on becoming Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs a non-resident of Australia to continue to have the ordinary shares or ADSs subject to Australian capital gains tax.
A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income US taxation tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value This section describes the material US federal income tax of the amount realised and its tax basis, determined in US dollars, consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The capital gain of a nonIt applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital corporate US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2011 is assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15 per cent where the holder has a holding period greater than 12 months.
The gain or loss will of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Plc a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or UK taxation more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person who Dividends holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source from or conversion transaction, or a US holder whose functional dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
currency is not the US dollar.
Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs This section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised agreement and any related agreement will be performed in on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: accordance with its terms.
they are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK or they carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs a branch or agency for the years in which the disposal occurs will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented and the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch for ordinary shares, will generally not be subject to US federal or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes income tax.
Dividends An individual who ceases to be resident in the UK for tax purposes Under the US federal income tax laws, a US holder must include while owning shares or ADSs and then disposes of those shares in its gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by or ADSs while not UK resident may become subject to UK tax on BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or accumulated earnings capital gains if he subsequently becomes treated as UK resident and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
again before 5 complete UK tax years of non UK residence has The holder must include any Australian tax withheld from the elapsed from the date he left the UK.
In this situation US holders dividend payment in this gross amount even though the holder will generally be entitled to claim US tax paid on such a disposition does not in fact receive it.
The dividend is taxable to the holder as a credit against any corresponding UK tax payable.
