Corporate Governance Statement continued 7.1 The Office of Chief Executive and Group Mr Chris Lynch, Group President, Carbon Steel Materials Management Committee continued and executive Director until 30 June 2007 Ms Rebecca McDonald, President Gas and Power During the year the members of the OCE were: Mr David Murray, President Coal Mr Charles Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Chairman Mr Tom Schutte, President Marketing Mr John Fast, Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs Mr Mahomed Seedat, President Energy Coal until 8 March 2007 retired in September 2007 Mr Nelson Silva, President Aluminium from 11 July 2007 Mr Robert Kirkby, Executive President retired 31 December 2006 Mr Jimmy Wilson, President Stainless Steel Materials Mr Marius Kloppers, Group President, Non-Ferrous Materials and Mr J Michael Yeager, Group Executive and Chief Executive executive Director Petroleum.
Mr Chris Lynch, Group President, Carbon Steel Materials and executive Director retired 30 June 2007 8. Business conduct Mr Marcus Randolph, Chief Organisation Development Officer Guide to Business Conduct Mr Miklos Salamon, Executive President and executive Director We have published a Guide to Business retired 26 October 2006 The Guide to Business Conduct, which is available in eight Conduct can be Mr Alex Vanselow, Chief Financial Officer languages.
The Guide reflects our Charter found at our website at Ms Karen Wood, Chief Governance Officer and Group Company values of integrity, respect, trust and www.
It provides clear direction and Mr J Michael Yeager, Group President Energy.
advice on conducting business internationally, interacting with communities, governments and From 11 July 2007 the members of the Group Management business partners and general workplace behaviour.
The Guide Committee are: applies to Directors and to all employees, regardless of their Mr Charles Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer to be succeeded position or location.
Consultants, contractors and business by Mr Marius Kloppers on 1 October 2007 partners are also expected to act in accordance with the Guide.
Mr Marius Kloppers, Group Executive and Chief Executive Insider trading Non-Ferrous until 1 October 2007 Mr Marcus Randolph, Group Executive and Chief Executive We have a Securities Dealing Code that A copy of the Securities Ferrous and Coal covers dealings by Directors and identified Dealing Code and Mr J Michael Yeager, Group Executive and Chief Executive employees and a Securities Dealing Policy Securities Dealing that covers dealings by all other employees.
Policy can be found Petroleum at our website at Both these documents restrict dealings Mr Alex Vanselow, Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer www.
com by Directors and employees in shares Ms Karen Wood, Group Executive and Chief People Officer aboutus governance.
and other securities during designated Mr Alberto Calderon, Group Executive and Chief Commercial prohibited periods and at any time when Officer.
they are in the possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
The biographical details of members of the Group Management Global Ethics Panel Committee are set out on page 32 of this Annual Review.
The CEO has formed a Global Ethics Panel to: 7.2 Other management Committees advise on matters affecting the values and behaviours The CEO draws on the work of other Committees to assist in of the Group monitoring and achieving outcomes consistent with the Corporate assist business leaders in assessing acceptable outcomes Objective.
The management Committees and their purposes are on issues of business ethics listed below: review the rationale, structure and content of the Guide Executive Committee The Executive Committee assists the to Business Conduct and propose changes CEO to increase the value of our business by achieving agreed promote awareness and effective implementation of the operational outcomes.
Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC The FRMC Panel members have been selected on the basis of their knowledge monitors the Groups financial risk management policies and of and experience in contemporary aspects of ethics and culture exposures and approves financial transactions within the scope that are relevant to the Group and consists of both employees and of its authority.
The Panel is chaired by the Group Executive Investment Review Committee IRC The IRC oversees the and Chief People Officer.
management approval processes for major investments, which are designed to ensure that investments are aligned to our Employee help lines agreed strategies and values, risks are identified and evaluated, We have established regional help lines so that employees can investments are fully optimised to produce the maximum seek guidance or express concerns on business-related issues.
shareholder value within an acceptable risk framework, Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
and appropriate risk management strategies are pursued.
A fraud hotline facility is available for reporting cases of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Arrangements The members of the Executive Committee are: are in place to investigate such matters.
Where appropriate, Mr Charles Goodyear Chairman investigations are conducted independently.
Levels of activity Mr Ian Ashby, President Iron Ore and support processes for the employee and fraud help lines Mr Peter Beaven, President Manganese are monitored with activity reports presented to the RAC and Mr Alberto Calderon, President Diamonds and Specialty Products the Board.
Further information on the Business Conduct Helpline until 11 July 2007 and fraud hotline can be found in the Guide to Business Conduct.
Mr Seamus French, Vice President Business Excellence Political donations until 13 August 2007 Mr Diego Hernandez, President Base Metals We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics and do not contribute funds to any political party, politician or Mr Graeme Hunt, President Aluminium from 11 July 2007 candidate for public office.
We do, however, contribute to the President Uranium and Olympic Dam Development public debate of policy issues that may affect our business in Mr Marius Kloppers, Group Executive and Chief Executive, the countries in which we operate.
Non-Ferrous and executive Director 44 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007
