Corporate Governance Statement continued Key activities during the year Both the Combined Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations require the Board to consider the application In November 2006 the CEO accepted the findings of the internal of the relevant corporate governance review into the matters raised by the Royal Commission of Inquiry principles, while recognising that A checklist established by the Australian Government into certain Australian summarising our departures from those principles are companies in relation to their involvement with the United Nations compliance with the appropriate in some circumstances.
Oil-for-Food Programme and adopted the recommendations of the UK Combined Code and We have complied with the provisions internal review.
The conclusions reached by the internal review the ASX Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Recommendations has were consistent with the findings of the Commissioner that there Code and with the ASX Principles and been posted to the was no breach of law by the BHP Billiton Group.
The internal review Recommendations throughout the website at recommended that a number of actions be taken to enhance our www.
com financial period and have continued systems and processes and these actions have been implemented.
to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
6.9 Market disclosure BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American disclosure by ensuring that all investors and potential investors Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
have the same access to high-quality, relevant information in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed We have reviewed the governance requirements currently decisions.
A Disclosure Committee manages our compliance with applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley market disclosure obligations and is responsible for implementing Act US, including the rules promulgated by the Securities and reporting processes and controls and setting guidelines for the Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and are satisfied release of information.
that we comply with those requirements.
Disclosure Officers have been appointed in each of the Groups Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual has instituted CSGs and functional departments.
These officers are responsible a broad regime of corporate governance requirements for for identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules foreign private material information about the activities of the CSG or functional issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country areas using disclosure guidelines practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for developed by the Committee.
A copy of the the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Market Disclosure Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10A-3 and certain notification To safeguard the effective dissemination and Communications provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Company of information we have developed a Policy is available at Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, however, Market Disclosure and Communications www.
com requires us to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate Policy which outlines how we identify aboutus governance.
governance practices differ from those followed by US-listed and distribute information to shareholders companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
Following a comparison of our corporate governance practices Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which we with the requirements of Section 303A of the NYSE Listed are listed, investor briefings, half yearly financial statements, the Company Manual that would otherwise currently apply to Annual Report and other relevant information are posted to the foreign private issuers, the following differences were identified: Groups website at www.
Any person wishing to Our Nomination Committee Charter does not include the receive advice by email of news releases can subscribe at purpose of developing and recommending to the Board a set www.
of corporate governance principles applicable to the corporation.
We believe that this task is integral to the governance of the 6.10 Conformance with corporate governance Group and is therefore best dealt with by the Board as a whole.
standards Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees Our compliance with the governance standards in each of are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, the jurisdictions in which we operate is summarised in this retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Report unless the companys governing law or documents or other and the financial statements.
home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC is directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of the companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and retention of External Auditors rests with our shareholders, which are contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code, and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
in accordance with UK law and our constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board The Listing Rules of the Australian Securities Exchange require on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with they meet the Principles and Recommendations published by the governance requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, it the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance recognises that practices and procedures can always be improved, Council as part of its Principles of Good Corporate Governance and there is merit in continuously reviewing its own standards ASX Principles and Recommendations and explain the reasons against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Boards program for any non-compliance.
of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
