Sustainability Report continued Report scope and data 4.3 Sustainability at BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective Introduction subsidiaries operate as one combined group known as BHP Billiton.
For BHP Billiton, sustainable development is about ensuring our Throughout the Sustainability Report, the terms BHP Billiton, the business remains viable and contributes lasting benefits to society Company and the Group refer to the combined group unless through the consideration of social, environmental, ethical and otherwise stated.
economic aspects in all that we do.
The statistics in this Report cover sites owned and operated As our Sustainable Development Policy states, Our objective wholly by BHP Billiton or operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture is to be the company of choice creating sustainable value for operation i. e. controlled sites during the 12-month period to shareholders, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, 30 June 2007.
Data is reported on a 100 per cent basis for facilities business partners and host communities.
Central to this is our operated by BHP Billiton, irrespective of our equity share unless aspirational goal of Zero Harm to people, our host communities otherwise stated.
Joint venture projects where we are not the and the environment.
operator are excluded, unless expressly stated.
All monetary amounts in the Report are US dollars, unless otherwise indicated.
Engaging stakeholders Performance data from the former WMC Resources Ltd WMC As the worlds largest diversified resources company, we reach out have been fully integrated into our 2007 Report, with the exception to thousands of stakeholders, and the feedback we receive helps of performance measures calculated as an intensity index.
This us to manage our activities to maximise benefits and mitigate their approach recognises historic differences in data collection between potential impacts, in line with the stated goals of our Charter.
Performance data excludes sites divested in We engage with our stakeholders in many ways, ranging from the reporting period.
one-on-one meetings and multi-stakeholder forums to cross-sector We also endeavour to report our influence across the life cycle partnerships and industry initiatives.
The majority of engagement of our products, including working with suppliers, processors, is conducted within our businesses at a local level, where our manufacturers and end users.
dialogue is focused on specific issues and solutions.
We also seek feedback on our Group sustainability strategy 4.4 Material issues and approach by engaging employees and contractors, investors, opinion leaders, governments, non-government organisations, As part of a good governance process we consider risk factors academia and regulators across the full range of issues and that could affect the Group.
For a full disclosure of our material regions in which we operate.
sustainability issues see our Full Sustainability Report online.
In FY2007, we conducted a major dialogue session on the topics A major assessment of sustainability risk four years ago led us to of free, prior and informed consent, community investment and identify five key sustainability challenges: climate change.
Bi-annual meetings with our Forum on Corporate eliminating fatal risks Responsibility continue to provide valuable advice and challenge occupational and community health our views on broad sustainable development issues.
Our active greenhouse gas emissions participation with a number of external voluntary initiatives, access to and management of resources including the UN Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative, also help to further build links with relevant stakeholders.
sustainable community development and closure.
Last year, our stakeholders asked us to provide more information In reviewing and responding to these challenges each year on our long-term business strategy, including greenhouse gas since then, we have taken into account internal and external performance, community investment and regional spend.
This factors, including: Report aims to address these requests.
External concerns raised by stakeholders, sector challenges reported by peers, competitors and key industry forums, relevant Our approach to sustainability reporting laws, regulations and international agreements, and estimable Our Sustainability Report is presented in two forms: sustainability impacts, risks, or opportunities identified by our a detailed web-based Full Report people, often in partnership with independent experts recognised http: bhpbilliton.
The Full Report is prepared in accordance Internal Our Board Governance Document, Company Charter, with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI 2006.
Ernst & Young Strategic Framework, Sustainable Development Policy, HSEC has conducted limited assurance over a selection of disclosures Management Standards and HSEC Performance Targets: the performance statements and case studies reported in the interests and expectations of our people, shareholders, and Full Report.
suppliers: our key risk factors: and the core competencies and In preparing the Report, we start by considering both the results structure of our organisation.
of our stakeholder engagement processes and any broad-based Each challenge is complex, often converging with other challenges.
societal expectations not directly raised by our stakeholders.
To better inform our stakeholders of this complexity and our Our HSEC teams then review this information to determine commitment to respond effectively, we have presented the issues how best to report on each issue.
To encourage transparency, consistency and clarity, we have adopted a report structure based on our values why we do what we do, stakeholder expectations what we are hearing, stakeholder engagement how we are working with others, our approach what we are doing and our performance how we have performed.
We believe this approach represents a balanced and reasonable representation of our organisations economic, environmental and social performance.
However, anyone seeking to rely on information in this Report or to draw detailed conclusions from the data should contact the Company for verification and assistance.
