Dear Shareholder The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to assess whether it continues to meet the needs of BHP Welcome to the Remuneration Report for the 2007 financial year.
Recruitment and retention of the As you will be aware, a number of senior management changes highly-skilled executives needed to deliver BHP Billitons strategy have been announced since the beginning of 2007.
Charles remain key priorities for the Committee.
During the next year, Chip Goodyear has decided to retire and, on 1 October 2007, we will revisit our incentive arrangements to make sure we are will be succeeded as CEO by Marius Kloppers.
Charles will step best placed to deliver on the imperatives of recruitment and down as an executive Director this year, but will stay employed retention, while ensuring that the interests of senior executives until 1 January 2008 to assist Marius with his transition program.
Chris Lynch retired on 31 August 2007, having stepped down as an executive Director on 30 June 2007.
John Fast will be On behalf of the Committee, thank you for your interest leaving later this month.
Details of the remuneration and in our Report.
leaving arrangements applicable to these individuals are set out in section 4 of this Report.
In 2006, shareholders approved the introduction of an all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, which allows employees to acquire shares up to the value of US$5,000 in John Buchanan any year.
These are then matched if the employee holds the Chairman, Remuneration Committee shares and remains in employment for a further three years.
6 September 2007 The initial take-up, following the launch in April 2007, was 33 per cent of eligible employees.
Reporting requirements The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability The senior management team of the Group during FY2007 was and transparency, and to ensuring that remuneration the Office of Chief Executive OCE.
In July 2007, the name of this arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and group changed to the Group Management Committee GMC.
Operating under delegated authority from the The role of the GMC is consistent with the role of the OCE Board, its activities are governed by Terms of Reference adopted as it operated throughout the year.
The names and titles by the Board in June 2006, which are available on our website.
of the members of the OCE who served during the year The Committee focuses on: are set out in section 4 of this Report.
Remuneration policy and its specific application to the CEO, Australian and International Financial Reporting Standards require the executive Directors and other executives reporting to the BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for key management CEO Office of Chief Executive OCE as well as the general personnel KMP.
KMP is defined as those persons having authority application to all our employees and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the The determination of levels of reward to the CEO, the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
executive Directors and other members of the OCE For the purposes of this Report, it has been determined that the Providing guidance to the Chairman on evaluating the KMP are the Directors and the members of the OCE who served performance of the CEO during FY2007.
In addition, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Effective communication with shareholders on the remuneration requires BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in respect of the policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board.
five highest-paid executives below Board level.
In FY2007, the five highest-paid executives below Board level were all members of the The members of the Committee during FY2007 were Dr John OCE and are, therefore, already included as KMP.
Buchanan Chairman, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, Dr David Jenkins and the Hon E. Gail fide Planque.
The Committee met seven times in 3.
Remuneration policy and structure FY2007, and attendance at those meetings is set out on page 39 of this Annual Review.
At the invitation of the Committee, The Committee recognises that we operate in a global Mr Don Argus the Group Chairman, Mr Charles Goodyear the environment and that our performance depends on the quality CEO, Mr Marcus Randolph in his capacity as Chief Organisation of our people.
It keeps the remuneration policy under regular Development Officer and Ms Karen Wood in her capacity as review to ensure it is appropriate for the needs of the Group.
Chief Governance Officer and Group Company Secretary attended meetings except where matters associated with their own 3.1 Key principles of our remuneration policy remuneration were considered.
Mr Derek Steptoe Vice President The key principles of our remuneration policy are to: Group Remuneration also attended meetings by invitation.
Provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain A report from the Committee and details of Board and Committee highly-skilled executives willing to work around the world performance appear on pages 38 and 41 of this Annual Review.
Apply demanding key performance indicators KPIs, including The Committee has access to advice and views from those financial and non-financial measures of performance invited to attend meetings, as mentioned above, and can draw on Link a large component of pay to our performance and the services from a range of external sources including remuneration creation of value for our shareholders consultants.
A list of all consultants, together with the type of Ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate services supplied and whether services are provided elsewhere the deployment of human resources around our businesses in the Group, is available on our website.
Kepler Associates LLP, Limit severance payments on termination to pre-established independent advisers to the Committee, supplies specialist contractual arrangements that do not commit us to making remuneration advice.
They do not provide any other services unjustified payments.
The Committee is confident that these principles, which were applied in the year under review, and will be applied in FY2008 and beyond, continue to meet the Groups objectives.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 47 Remuneration Report continued The remuneration paid and payable to members of the OCE The Committee believes that the KPIs set and the relative including executive Directors in respect of FY2007 is disclosed weightings given to the different categories of KPI effectively in this Report.
It comprises fixed and at risk components.
At the end of each year, manner in which these components are determined is outlined the performance level achieved against each KPI is measured in this section.
The actual remuneration paid and payable is set out and awards are calculated and paid according to the level in the tables in sections 5.1 and 5.5 of this Report.
paid to non-executive Directors is set out in section 6.2.
Long-term incentives, in the form of Performance Shares, are awarded annually under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
3.2 Service contracts The diversified natural resources industry is capital intensive, cyclical It is our policy that service contracts have no fixed term, but are and long term.
Outstanding performance comes from accessing capable of termination on 12 months notice and that we retain the high-quality resources, successfully developing new projects and right to terminate the contract immediately by making a payment maintaining efficient and safe operations.
The Committee believes equal to 12 months base salary and retirement benefit contribution that in this environment, success can best be measured by our in lieu of notice.
All members of the OCE have service contracts see Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the TSR section 4.5 of this Report for full details.
These contracts typically of an index of a peer group of companies weighted 75 per cent outline the components of remuneration paid, but do not prescribe to mining and 25 per cent to oil and gas the Index.
how remuneration levels are to be modified from year-to-year.
The Performance Hurdle applicable to the awards granted in 3.3 Fixed remuneration December 2006, and to those to be granted in December 2007, requires BHP Billitons TSR over a five-year performance period Fixed remuneration is made up of base salary, retirement to be greater than the weighted average TSR of the Index.
To the and other benefits.
It represents approximately 34 per cent extent that the Performance Hurdle is not achieved, awards are of the individuals remuneration package based on target forfeited.
performance and using Expected Values for share awards.
For all Performance Shares to vest, BHP Billitons TSR must exceed Base salary is targeted at industry average levels for comparable the weighted average TSR of the Index by a specified percentage, roles in global companies of similar complexity and size.
Market determined each year by the Committee.
Since the establishment data are used to benchmark salary levels and to inform decisions of the LTIP in 2004, this percentage has been set each year at on base salary changes.
Base salaries are set by reference to the 5.5 per cent.
This annual amount equates to exceeding the scope and nature of the individuals performance and experience, weighted average TSR of the Index over the five-year performance and are reviewed each year.
The review takes into account any period by more than 30 per cent.
For performance between the change in the scope of the role performed by the individual, any weighted average TSR of the Index and 5.5 per cent per annum changes required to meet the principles of the remuneration policy above the Index, vesting occurs on a sliding scale.
In the event that the Committee does not believe that BHP Billitons Retirement benefits for new entrants are delivered under defined TSR properly reflects the financial performance of the Group, it retains contribution plans.
All defined benefit plans are now closed to new the discretion to lapse the Performance Shares.
It is anticipated that entrants.
Employees who participate in these legacy defined such discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances.
benefit plans continue to accrue benefits in such plans for both past and future service unless they have opted to transfer to a The maximum award that may be made to a participant in any defined contribution plan.
one financial year is limited by the rules of the LTIP to an award with an Expected Value of twice their annual base salary.
Other benefits include health insurance, relocation costs, life Expected Value has been used because it enables the Committee assurance, car allowances and tax advisory services as applicable.
to set total target remuneration levels for the CEO and his direct All such benefits are non-pensionable.
reports, taking into account the degree of difficulty of the LTIP 3.4 At risk remuneration Performance Hurdle and the consequent probability of awards vesting, together with ensuring that awards are externally At risk remuneration is geared to Group performance and is competitive.
It can be defined as the average outcome weighted made up of short-term and long-term incentives.
It represents by probability, and takes into account the difficulty of achieving approximately 66 per cent of the individuals remuneration performance conditions and the correlation between these and package based on target performance and using Expected Values share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology also takes for share awards.
into account factors including volatility and forfeiture risk.
Short-term incentives are delivered annually under the Group Participants of the GIS and the LTIP are eligible to receive a Incentive Scheme GIS.
Awards under the GIS are split equally payment equal to the dividend amount that would have been between a cash award being a percentage of base salary and earned on the underlying shares represented by the Deferred a grant of Deferred Shares and or Options to encourage employee Shares, Options and Performance Shares awarded to those retention and share ownership.
These Deferred Shares and or participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
The Dividend Options are subject to a two-year vesting period before they Equivalent Payment is made to the participants once the can be exercised.
If, during that period, an individual resigns underlying shares are issued or transferred to them.
No Dividend without the Committees consent, or is dismissed for cause, their Equivalent Payment is made in respect of Deferred Shares, Options entitlement to them is forfeited.
Members of the OCE each have and Performance Shares that lapse.
a target cash award of 70 per cent of base salary and a maximum award of 105 per cent.
3.5 Share ownership guidelines The GIS incentivises employees to achieve annual goals linked to Participation in the GIS and the LTIP is approved by the Committee, the business strategy, budget and personal objectives.
Measures and participants may be required to hold a minimum number of are set to reflect the critical KPIs of the Group in a combination BHP Billiton shares Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR, of financial and non-financial areas.
The key Group measures in the level of which is determined by the Committee, throughout FY2007, and in FY2008, are Health and Safety, Shareholder Value their period of participation in the schemes.
The current MSR Added and Net Present Value Added.
In addition, each member for the CEO and his direct reports is 50 per cent of one years of the OCE has personal KPIs based on their key area of base salary on an after-tax basis, calculated using the year-end responsibility.
Members of the OCE have approximately BHP Billiton share price.
80 per cent Group-based measures and 20 per cent personal measures.
In light of Mr Goodyears planned retirement as CEO on 30 September 2007, and from the Group on 1 January 2008, his personal measures will be weighted toward the CEO transition.
