Information for Shareholders Information for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders Stock exchange listings this year is provided in the BHP Billiton Group Annual Review 2007 BHP Billiton Limited is listed on stock exchanges in Australia and Annual Report 2007.
Australian Securities Exchange ASX, Germany Frankfurt, Switzerland Zurich and the US New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The Annual Review contains key information about the BHP Billiton Group in summary format.
The Annual Report provides the detailed BHP Billiton Plc is listed on stock exchanges in the UK London Stock financial data and information on the BHP Billiton Groups Exchange LSE, South Africa JSE Limited and the US NYSE.
performance required to comply with the reporting regimes Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Shares ADSs each in Australia, UK and the US.
representing two Ordinary shares evidenced by American Depositary The summary financial statements and accompanying notes cannot Receipts ADRs.
Citibank N. A. is the Depositary for both ADR programs.
provide as full an understanding of the financial performance, position, BHP Billiton Limiteds ADSs have been listed for trading on the and funding and investing activities of the BHP Billiton Group as the NYSE ticker BHP since 28 May 1987 and BHP Billiton Plcs since complete financial statements included in the Annual Report.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will receive The trustees and dividend-paying banks for internationally registered the Annual Review unless they have opted to receive the Annual shares are shown on the inside back cover of this Annual Review.
ADR holders may view both documents on-line at www.
com or opt to receive a hard copy by application Annual General Meetings to the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar.
The Annual General Meeting of BHP Billiton Plc will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Dividends policy London SW1P 3EE, UK on Thursday, 25 October 2007 commencing We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily increase at 10.30am.
or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars at each half yearly The Annual General Meeting of BHP Billiton Limited will be held payment provided that we generate sufficient profit and cash flow at the Adelaide Hilton Centre, 233 Victoria Square, Adelaide, South to do so.
Australia on Wednesday, 28 November 2007 at 10.30am.
Because the US dollar is our main reporting currency, we declare our Details of the business of the meeting are contained in the separate dividends and other distributions in US dollars.
BHP Billiton Limited Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Review.
pays its dividends in Australian dollars, pounds sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, depending on the country of residence of the Enquiries shareholder.
BHP Billiton Plc pays its dividends in pounds sterling to Shareholders wishing to contact BHP Billiton on any matter relating shareholders registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom to their share or ADR holdings are invited to telephone the appropriate and South African rands to shareholders registered on its branch office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar listed on the inside back cover register in South Africa.
If shareholders wish to alter the currency of the Annual Review.
in which they receive dividends they must complete an appropriate election form and return it to the BHP Billiton Share Registrar no later Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details online than two days prior to the announcement of the next dividend.
via BHP Billitons website www.
The website requires you to quote your Shareholder Reference Number SRN or Holder Dividends payments Identification Number HIN in order to access this information.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends Access the Annual Review or Annual Report on the web paid directly into a nominated bank, building society or credit union, depending on the shareholders country of residence as show below.
We offer an alternative for shareholders who wish to be advised of the availability of the Annual Review and Annual Report through our website via an email notification.
By providing an email address Country where shareholder is resident Financial institution through our website, shareholders will be notified by email when Australia Bank, building society, the Annual Review and Annual Report have been released.
credit union Shareholders will also receive notification of other major BHP Billiton announcements by email.
If you require further information or UK Bank, building society you would like to make use of this service, please visit our website New Zealand Bank www.
ADR holders and holders of shares dematerialised into STRATE should approach the appropriate US Bank BHP Billiton Share Registrar.
Shareholders from the abovementioned locations who do not provide Key dates for shareholders their direct credit details and shareholders with registered addresses The following table sets out key dates in the next financial and outside Australia, UK, New Zealand and US will receive dividend calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there are any payments by way of an Australian currency cheque.
changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges will be notified.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid Date Event directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate form which is available from the BHP Billiton Share Registrar 28 September 2007 Payment Date for Final Dividend in the UK or South Africa.
25 October 2007 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Change of shareholder details Meeting in London Banking arrangements When you close your account or otherwise 28 November 2007 BHP Billiton Ltd Annual General change your banking arrangements, it is essential you notify the Meeting in Adelaide appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar of your new details.
6 February 2008 Interim Results Announced Change of Address It is important that shareholders notify the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar immediately if there is a 29 February 2008 Interim Dividend Record Date change to their registered address.
Shareholders on the BHP Billiton 18 March 2008 Interim Dividend Payment Date Limited CHESS sub-register should forward the change of address advice to their sponsoring broker, quoting the Holder Identification 13 August 2008 Annual Results Announced Number HIN.
Dematerialised holdings under STRATE South African shareholders who hold shares dematerialised into STRATE should contact their CSDP or stockbroker regarding the customer service items mentioned above.
