Sustainability Report continued Report scope and data 4.3 Sustainability at BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective Introduction subsidiaries operate as one combined group known as BHP Billiton.
For BHP Billiton, sustainable development is about ensuring our Throughout the Sustainability Report, the terms BHP Billiton, the business remains viable and contributes lasting benefits to society Company and the Group refer to the combined group unless through the consideration of social, environmental, ethical and otherwise stated.
economic aspects in all that we do.
The statistics in this Report cover sites owned and operated As our Sustainable Development Policy states, Our objective wholly by BHP Billiton or operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture is to be the company of choice creating sustainable value for operation i. e. controlled sites during the 12-month period to shareholders, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, 30 June 2007.
Data is reported on a 100 per cent basis for facilities business partners and host communities.
Central to this is our operated by BHP Billiton, irrespective of our equity share unless aspirational goal of Zero Harm to people, our host communities otherwise stated.
Joint venture projects where we are not the and the environment.
operator are excluded, unless expressly stated.
All monetary amounts in the Report are US dollars, unless otherwise indicated.
Engaging stakeholders Performance data from the former WMC Resources Ltd WMC As the worlds largest diversified resources company, we reach out have been fully integrated into our 2007 Report, with the exception to thousands of stakeholders, and the feedback we receive helps of performance measures calculated as an intensity index.
This us to manage our activities to maximise benefits and mitigate their approach recognises historic differences in data collection between potential impacts, in line with the stated goals of our Charter.
Performance data excludes sites divested in We engage with our stakeholders in many ways, ranging from the reporting period.
one-on-one meetings and multi-stakeholder forums to cross-sector We also endeavour to report our influence across the life cycle partnerships and industry initiatives.
The majority of engagement of our products, including working with suppliers, processors, is conducted within our businesses at a local level, where our manufacturers and end users.
dialogue is focused on specific issues and solutions.
We also seek feedback on our Group sustainability strategy 4.4 Material issues and approach by engaging employees and contractors, investors, opinion leaders, governments, non-government organisations, As part of a good governance process we consider risk factors academia and regulators across the full range of issues and that could affect the Group.
For a full disclosure of our material regions in which we operate.
sustainability issues see our Full Sustainability Report online.
In FY2007, we conducted a major dialogue session on the topics A major assessment of sustainability risk four years ago led us to of free, prior and informed consent, community investment and identify five key sustainability challenges: climate change.
Bi-annual meetings with our Forum on Corporate eliminating fatal risks Responsibility continue to provide valuable advice and challenge occupational and community health our views on broad sustainable development issues.
Our active greenhouse gas emissions participation with a number of external voluntary initiatives, access to and management of resources including the UN Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative, also help to further build links with relevant stakeholders.
sustainable community development and closure.
Last year, our stakeholders asked us to provide more information In reviewing and responding to these challenges each year on our long-term business strategy, including greenhouse gas since then, we have taken into account internal and external performance, community investment and regional spend.
This factors, including: Report aims to address these requests.
External concerns raised by stakeholders, sector challenges reported by peers, competitors and key industry forums, relevant Our approach to sustainability reporting laws, regulations and international agreements, and estimable Our Sustainability Report is presented in two forms: sustainability impacts, risks, or opportunities identified by our a detailed web-based Full Report people, often in partnership with independent experts recognised http: bhpbilliton.
The Full Report is prepared in accordance Internal Our Board Governance Document, Company Charter, with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI 2006.
Ernst & Young Strategic Framework, Sustainable Development Policy, HSEC has conducted limited assurance over a selection of disclosures Management Standards and HSEC Performance Targets: the performance statements and case studies reported in the interests and expectations of our people, shareholders, and Full Report.
suppliers: our key risk factors: and the core competencies and In preparing the Report, we start by considering both the results structure of our organisation.
of our stakeholder engagement processes and any broad-based Each challenge is complex, often converging with other challenges.
societal expectations not directly raised by our stakeholders.
To better inform our stakeholders of this complexity and our Our HSEC teams then review this information to determine commitment to respond effectively, we have presented the issues how best to report on each issue.
To encourage transparency, consistency and clarity, we have adopted a report structure based on our values why we do what we do, stakeholder expectations what we are hearing, stakeholder engagement how we are working with others, our approach what we are doing and our performance how we have performed.
We believe this approach represents a balanced and reasonable representation of our organisations economic, environmental and social performance.
However, anyone seeking to rely on information in this Report or to draw detailed conclusions from the data should contact the Company for verification and assistance.
110 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 111 Issue Main Stakeholders Key elements of BHP Billitons response See Affected section Access to and Management of Resources Accessing water Local communities, We are committed to reducing our consumption of fresh water, and have 4.8 government, introduced a target of a 10 per cent improvement in the ratio of water recycled environmental NGOs or reused to fresh water consumed by 30 June 2012.
Accessing land Local communities, The nature of our business requires us to clear land.
We also manage large 4.8 government, tracts of land for exploration, future developments and as a buffer from environmental NGOs neighbouring land uses.
Our Closure Standard requires all sites to have rehabilitation plans, and we have a target to reduce the total land available for rehabilitation by 10 per cent by 30 June 2012.
Conserving Local communities, We survey flora and fauna as part of exploration and project development 4.8 biodiversity government, programs, identify biodiversity risks and implement biodiversity management environmental NGOs and closure plans at sites operating in sensitive areas.
Access to Employees, Our revised Human Resources Policy and Standards outline our approach to 4.10 skilled people contractors, employee attraction and retention.
local communities, government Responsible Customers, We continue to build stewardship programs across our commodities.
We also 4.11 marketing and local communities, work with industry associations and the supply chain to build relationships stewardship regulators with other stakeholders in the life cycle of our products.
Bribery, corruption Government, Our Guide to Business Conduct sets a zero tolerance on bribery and corruption 4.5 and anti-trust regulators, and requires all employees to comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws customers and regulations.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reducing our Local communities, We are committed to helping to mitigate climate change and have set a target 4.8 contribution government, of a 6 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production, to greenhouse environmental NGOs and a 13 per cent reduction in energy use per unit of production, both to be gas emissions achieved by 30 June 2012.
We are also investing US$300 million in R&D and internal energy efficiency measures over the next five years.
Sustainable Community Development and Closure Protecting the Employees, We recognise and support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 4.9 human rights of contractors, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and the UN Global our people and local communities, Compact.
All sites are required to undertake a human rights self-assessment host communities government and implement a risk-based human rights management plan by 30 June 2008.
Community Government, Our capacity to build strong relationships with our host communities is 4.9 development local communities critical to existing operations, and our reputation for involving and supporting empowering communities will also be important in obtaining land access for new projects.
communities We continue to invest 1 per cent of pre-tax profits on a three-year rolling for the long term average in community programs.
Distributing economic Government, The socio-economic impact of extractive industries is significant, and we are 4.10 contributions suppliers and working to enhance our ability to make a positive contribution to the regions fair and legal their workers, and communities in which we operate.
We continue to use local suppliers compensation local communities wherever possible.
Eliminating Fatal Risks Eliminating Fatal Risks Employees, The safety of our workforce must never be compromised.
We are accelerating 4.7 contractors, the implementation of our Fatal Risk Control Protocols and have also introduced local communities, a new target of a 50 per cent reduction in Total Recordable Injury Frequency regulators Rate by 30 June 2012.
Occupational and Community Health Protecting our people Employees, Our approach to employee health recognises the need to establish a number 4.6 contractors, of measures to reduce any potential for exposure to risk.
We have a target local communities, of a 30 per cent reduction in the incidence of occupational disease by regulators 30 June 2012, and we have combined our Fit for Work program with a series of Fit for Life initiatives that include injury management, employee counselling and health promotion.
Protecting our Local communities, Infectious diseases in the regions in which we operate are a major threat 4.6 communities government to our business.
Globally we are working with leading world health organisations to help manage the fight against HIV AIDS and malaria.
At a local level we are working to implement programs to both educate our communities and manage disease infection rates.
