Its our potential for future growth Our growth options Our bioleaching technology We need to look beyond our current project pipeline if we are to secure a foundation for is a relatively inexpensive future generations of growth.
Thats why we are looking to secure growth in several ways process that helps us recover from existing operations to emerging regions, through exploration, technology and possible metal from concentrates that merger and acquisition activity.
It also Existing operations offer decades of growth helps us recover metal from Our abundance of existing resources in economically and politically stable countries provides low-grade ores, which is us with a unique set of options to deliver decades of growth.
We have growth opportunities increasingly important as within our unique portfolio of energy assets, including our oil, gas, liquefied natural gas, high-grade ore reserves are energy coal and uranium assets.
We also have a range of exciting expansion opportunities depleted.
Bioleaching also across our other operations, including our Western Australia iron ore assets, the Escondida reduces our energy copper mine in northern Chile, the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine in South consumption.
Australia, the Cerro Matoso nickel operation in Colombia and the GEMCO manganese mine at Groote Eylandt in north-eastern Australia.
Emerging regions Many of our assets are in the traditional resource regions of Australia, South Africa, South America and the US.
However, we also have significant experience in operating in more challenging geographies.
This experience helps us build and strengthen our position in emerging regions regions that we expect will play an increasingly central role as resource bases in the future.
It means we can secure future development options as opportunities emerge in regions such as sub-Saharan Africa.
TM TM Expanding the possibilities BioNIC AND BioCOP ARE JUST TWO OF THE REGISTERED As the worlds readily accessible resources become more scarce, we need to look towards technology and expand the possibilities for extracting resources in an economically viable and BIOLEACHING PROCESSES DEVELOPED sustainable manner, and to reach those resources once regarded as beyond our capabilities.
BY OUR GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY GROUP.
We aim to be leaders when it comes to understanding and harnessing future developments in science and technology that will help us to capture the full value of our assets.
Every day, our engineers and scientists are developing our understanding of how to locate new resources and unlock resources once deemed too complex or uneconomical to process.
Exploration continues to be an important focus for us.
In our minerals businesses we are undertaking exploration in 28 countries, while petroleum exploration is under way in eight countries.
We are exploring for diamonds in Angola, Canada and the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC : for copper in Australia, Chile, Mongolia, the DRC and Zambia: and for nickel in Australia, Russia and Africa.
During the year, we also conducted exploration for iron ore, coal, potash and bauxite across many regions including Australia, Brazil, Canada and West Africa.
Future growth may also include merger and acquisition activity.
We evaluate all opportunities for mergers and acquisitions as they arise, and make our decisions based on the long-term value that such transactions can bring to our shareholders.
Spence, Chile, 2006 WA Iron Ore RGP2, Koala Underground, EKATI Shenzi, On local currency Australia, 2006 Canada, due 2007 Gulf of Mexico, due 2009 budget, before time On local currency budget, On budget, on time On budget, on time on time US$1,100 million US$521 million US$200 million US$1,940 million BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 23
