Sustainability Report Climate change is an area of increased focus for the Company.
4.1 CEO Statement We recognise our shared responsibility to address the risks of The strong commodity cycle, driven by solid growth in developing climate change and are working with others to find ways of economies, such as China and India, influences the types of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
We have updated our sustainability challenges we face and how we approach them.
policy by setting new targets to further reduce the energy and greenhouse gas intensity of our business, we are committing Strong investment has increased our industrys demand for skilled increased funds to finding technological solutions in partnership technical and professional people.
Attracting the right people to with others and we are working to better understand and manage the right location at the right time continues to present challenges.
our emissions, and the impact of our products, on climate change.
But with challenges comes opportunities, and as we expand our This includes working with the Australian Government to help activities into less traditional regions, we are opening up new define a National Carbon Emissions Trading System, as well strategies for attracting and developing talent.
Our International as continuing to build our trading profile in Europe.
Graduate Program is testament to this approach.
Our commitment to spending one per cent of pre-tax profits, There is a growing consumer expectation that mined resources on a rolling three-year average, on voluntary community are sourced and supplied responsibly.
The risk of harm caused programs resulted in US$103.4 million going directly to benefit by improper handling and use of commodities such as lead and our communities.
Through our global Employee Matched Giving uranium are of significant concern to many stakeholders.
Our Program our employees personally donated or fundraised around stewardship initiatives are designed to provide a framework that US$1.8 million and contributed 69,000 hours of volunteering time.
engages key stakeholders in the life cycle of our products such The Company matched these efforts by providing around that responsible management is assured at all times.
US$2.4 million to over 880 community organisations.
Tragically and unacceptably, eight people lost their lives at our As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals operations during the year, despite overall improvements in our ICMM, we are committed to superior business practices in injury trends.
We continue to reinforce our steadfast belief that sustainable development.
We have committed to implement we must never take the health and safety of our people for the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework and comply with granted and the pursuit of Zero Harm remains our overriding goal.
policy statements of the ICMM Council.
Details are given in the In FY2007, we generally performed well against most of our other Full Sustainability Report, which has been prepared in accordance sustainable development measures.
Our current five-year targets with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI 2006 Sustainability concluded at the close of FY2007, with good results in the total Reporting Guidelines.
We believe the Report provides a balanced number of injuries recorded and greenhouse gas emissions.
Our and reasonable representation of our economic, environmental increase in the number of diagnosed cases of noise-induced hearing and social performance.
loss, while disappointing, reflects our commitment to continuous I would like to thank all our employees and contractors for their improvement in monitoring techniques and our willingness to commitment and efforts and for their contribution to the success assess our performance against the most stringent standards.
I am leaving the Company with the confidence that New five-year public targets will commence in 2008.
In particular, it is well positioned to continue its commitment to sustainable we will further focus our attention on eliminating fatal risks, development as an integral part of its ability to prosper and further reducing the energy and greenhouse intensity of succeed.
our business, optimising the use of water, and minimising occupational exposures.
Charles Goodyear Chief Executive Officer BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 107
