5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 179 Notes to Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Dual Listed Companies structure and basis of preparation of Treatment of the DLC merger for accounting purposes financial statements The basis of accounting for the DLC merger was established under Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, Merger terms pursuant to the requirements of the Australian Securities and On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Plc previously known as Billiton Plc, Investments Commission ASIC Practice Note 71 Financial Reporting a UK listed company, and BHP Billiton Limited previously known by Australian Entities in Dual-Listed Company Arrangements, an order as BHP Limited, an Australian listed company, entered into a Dual issued by ASIC under section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 on Listed Companies DLC merger.
This was effected by contractual 2 September 2002, and in accordance with the UK Companies Act arrangements between the Companies and amendments to their 1985.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 AASB 1 constitutional documents.
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the same basis of accounting is applied under International Financial The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Plc and its Reporting Standards.
Accordingly, this annual financial report presents subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Plc Group and BHP Billiton Limited the merged BHP Billiton Group as follows: and its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Limited Group operate together Results for the years ended 30 June 2007, 30 June 2006 and 30 June as a single economic entity the BHP Billiton Group.
Under the 2005 are of the combined merged entity comprising the BHP Billiton arrangements: Plc Group and the BHP Billiton Limited Group the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have Assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Plc Group and the BHP a common economic interest in both Groups Billiton Limited Group were combined at the date of the merger at the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited take their existing carrying amounts key decisions, including the election of Directors, through a joint Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent entity electoral procedure under which the shareholders of the two are presented in note 39 to the financial statements.
Financial Companies effectively vote on a joint basis statements of the BHP Billiton Plc single parent entity are presented BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have a common Board on page 266 of the Annual Report of Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies The full financial report of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent entity are equalised is available on the Companys website www.
com and BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited each executed a deed are available to shareholders on request, free of charge.
poll guarantee, guaranteeing subject to certain exceptions the contractual obligations whether actual or contingent, primary or Basis of preparation secondary of the other incurred after 29 June 2001 together with This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2007 specified obligations existing at that date has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK If either BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited proposes to pay Companies Act 1985 and Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with: a dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its to International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB and interpretations unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such a effective as of 30 June 2007 matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited will, so International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with each as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and other as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as to enable interpretations effective as of 30 June 2007 both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable at the International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations same time.
as adopted by the European Union EU as of 30 June 2007 those standards and interpretations adopted early for each The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of applicable reporting period as described below any assets of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited, any change of ownership of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Plc The above standards and interpretations are collectively referred or BHP Billiton Limited, the issue of any shares or securities or any to as IFRS in this report.
payment by way of consideration, save for the issue by each Company The comparative information has also been prepared on this basis, of one special voting share to a trustee company which is the means with the exception of certain items, details of which are given below, by which the joint electoral procedure is operated.
In addition, to for which comparative information has not been restated.
achieve a position where the economic and voting interests of one share in BHP Billiton Plc and one share in BHP Billiton Limited were A reconciliation of the major differences between the financial identical, BHP Billiton Limited made a bonus issue of ordinary shares information prepared under IFRS compared to US GAAP is included to the holders of its ordinary shares.
in note 38 to the financial statements.
This financial report has been prepared on the basis of IFRS on issue that are effective, or except as described below, available for early adoption at 30 June 2007.
For the 30 June 2007 financial year, the BHP Billiton Group adopted the following interpretations: IFRIC 4 AASB Interpretation 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease IFRIC 8 AASB Interpretation 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 AASB Interpretation 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 AASB Interpretation 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 AASB Interpretation 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The application of these interpretations did not have a material impact on the current or comparative periods.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 179 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 180 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued For the 30 June 2007 financial year the BHP Billiton Group did not Derivative financial instruments were accounted for using Australian early adopt the following standards: GAAP and UK GAAP hedge accounting principles whereby IFRS 7 AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS 7 AASB 7 derivatives were matched to specifically identified commercial risks modifies the basis and details of disclosures concerning financial being hedged.
These matching principles were applied using accrual instruments, but does not impact the recognition or measurement accounting methods to both realised and unrealised transactions.
The potential impact on disclosures had Derivatives undertaken as hedges of anticipated transactions were the standard been adopted early has not yet been determined.
recognised when such transactions were recognised.
Upon AASB 2007-4 Australian Additions to, and Deletions from, IFRSs.
recognition of the underlying transaction, derivatives were valued at AASB 2007-4 reinstates optional treatments within IFRS that were the appropriate market spot rate.
When an underlying transaction not available on transition in Australia.
The principal impact on the could no longer be identified, gains or losses on a derivative financial statements had the standard been adopted early would be previously designated as a hedge of that transaction were taken to permit recognition within each applicable line item of the to the income statement, whether or not the derivative was financial report, the BHP Billiton Groups proportionate interest in terminated.
When a hedge was terminated, the deferred gain the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of jointly controlled or loss that arose prior to termination was: entities.
All such interests are presently recognised using the equity deferred and included in the measurement of the anticipated method.
This change would have no impact on attributable profit or transaction when it occurred: or equity, but would impact most lines items and sub-totals presented taken to the income statement when the anticipated transaction in the financial statements.
Refer note 15 for information relevant to was no longer expected to occur.
The premiums paid on interest rate options and foreign currency put IFRS 8 AASB 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 AASB 8 specifies the and call options were included in debtors and were deferred and basis and details of disclosures concerning operating segments.
included in the settlement of the underlying transaction.
The potential impact on disclosure had the standard been adopted The adoption of IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure early has not yet been determined.
and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial Instruments: The principal standards and interpretations that were early adopted Recognition and Measurement resulted in the Group recognising for the 30 June 2006 financial year were: available for sale investments and all derivative financial instruments IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources as assets or liabilities at fair value.
Accordingly, transitional Revised IAS 19 AASB 119 Employee Benefits adjustments in respect of IAS 32 AASB 132 and IAS 39 AASB 139 were IFRIC 5 AASB Interpretation 5 Rights to Interests arising from recorded in the opening balance sheet and against retained earnings Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation and reserves, as applicable, at 1 July 2005.
Funds Principles of consolidation Basis of measurement The financial report of the BHP Billiton Group includes the The financial report is drawn up on the basis of historical cost consolidation of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their principles, except for derivative financial instruments and certain other respective subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either financial assets which are carried at fair value.
Control exists where either parent entity has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to Currency of presentation obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial report from the date control commences until All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise the date control ceases.
Where the BHP Billiton Groups interest is less stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of the than 100 per cent, the interest attributable to outside shareholders is BHP Billiton Groups operations.
The effects of all transactions between Change in accounting policy entities within the BHP Billiton Group have been eliminated.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities Joint ventures included in the BHP Billiton Group consolidated financial report and The BHP Billiton Group undertakes a number of business activities are consistent with those applied in all prior years presented, except through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through for IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and contractual arrangements that require the unanimous consent of Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition each of the venturers regarding the strategic financial and operating and Measurement which were adopted effective 1 July 2005. policies of the venture joint control.
The BHP Billiton Groups joint Financial instruments ventures are of two types: The Group adopted IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Jointly controlled entities Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial A jointly controlled entity is a corporation, partnership or other entity Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 July 2005.
Prior in which each participant holds an interest.
A jointly controlled entity to 1 July 2005, the principal accounting policies affecting financial operates in the same way as other entities, controlling the assets of instruments were as follows: the joint venture, earning its own income and incurring its own Available for sale investments were classified as fixed asset liabilities and expenses.
Interests in jointly controlled entities are investments and, other than for joint ventures and associates, were accounted for using the equity method and are carried at the lower of stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
the equity accounted amount and recoverable amount.
The share of Trading investments were classified as current asset investments jointly controlled entities net profit or loss is recognised in the income and valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In statement from the date that joint control commences until the date determining net realisable values, market values were used in the at which it ceases.
Movements in reserves are recognised in the BHP case of listed investments and Directors estimates were used in the Billiton Groups reserves.
180 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 181 1 Accounting policies continued Jointly controlled assets and operations Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures arising after The BHP Billiton Group has certain contractual arrangements with 1 July 2004 are accounted for in accordance with the policy stated other participants to engage in joint activities that do not give rise below.
Exchange variations arising before this date were transferred to a jointly controlled entity.
These arrangements involve the joint to retained earnings at the date of transition to IFRS.
ownership of assets dedicated to the purposes of each venture but do not create a jointly controlled entity as the venturers directly derive The income statement of subsidiaries and joint ventures that have the benefits of operation of their jointly owned assets, rather than functional currencies other than US dollars are translated to US dollars deriving returns from an interest in a separate entity.
at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the year end.
Exchange variations The financial report of the BHP Billiton Group includes its share of the resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investment assets in such joint ventures, together with the liabilities, revenues in such subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with differences and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations.
between their income statement translated at actual and closing All such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms of each rates, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
arrangement, which are usually in proportion to the BHP Billiton For the purpose of foreign currency translation, the net investment Groups interest in the jointly controlled assets.
in a foreign operation is determined inclusive of foreign currency intercompany balances for which settlement is neither planned nor Business combinations likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
The balance of the foreign Business combinations occurring after 1 July 2004 are accounted currency translation reserve relating to a foreign operation that is for in accordance with the policy stated below.
Business combinations disposed of, or partially disposed of, is recognised in the income occurring prior to this date have been accounted for in accordance statement at the time of disposal.
with the Groups previous policies under UK GAAP and Australian GAAP and have not been restated.
Share-based payments Business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase The fair value at grant date of equity settled share awards granted method of accounting, whereby the purchase consideration of the after 8 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the combination is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and period for which the benefits of employee services are expected to be contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value derived.
The corresponding accrued employee entitlement is recorded at the date of acquisition.
Mineral rights that can be reliably valued in the employee share awards reserve.
The fair value of awards is are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other calculated using an option pricing model which considers the potential mineral rights for which values can not be reliably following factors: determined are not recognised.
exercise price expected life of the award Where the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable current market price of the underlying shares to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference expected volatility is treated as purchased goodwill and accounted for in line with the expected dividends Groups policy thereon.
Where the fair value of the Groups share risk-free interest rate of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the market-based performance hurdles difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
For equity settled share awards granted before 7 November 2002 and Intangible assets and goodwill that remained unvested at 1 July 2004, the estimated cost of share Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, awards is charged to the income statement from grant date to the such as software and licences, are capitalised at the fair value date of expected vesting.
The estimated cost of awards is based on of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated the market value of shares at the grant date or the intrinsic value of amortisation and impairment charges.
Identifiable intangible assets options awarded, adjusted to reflect the impact of performance with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their conditions, where applicable.
expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight years.
Where awards are forfeited because non-market based vesting The BHP Billiton Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised is the expected useful life is indefinite.
Where BHP Billiton Group shares are Where the fair value of the consideration paid for a business acquired by on-market purchases prior to settling vested entitlements, acquisition exceeds the fair value of the identifiable assets and the cost of the acquired shares is carried as treasury shares and liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill.
When awards are satisfied by delivery of is not amortised, however its carrying amount is assessed annually acquired shares, any difference between their acquisition cost and against its recoverable amount as explained below under Impairment the remuneration expense recognised is charged directly to retained of non-current assets.
The tax effect of awards granted is recognised in income tax expense, except to the extent that the total tax deductions are On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired expected to exceed the cumulative remuneration expense.
In this business, any remaining balance of associated goodwill is included in situation, the excess of the associated current or deferred tax is the determination of the profit or loss on disposal or termination.
recognised in equity as part of the employee share awards reserve.
Foreign currencies Sales revenue The BHP Billiton Groups reporting currency and the functional Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets is currency of the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is the recognised when persuasive evidence, usually in the form of an principal currency of the economic environments in which they operate.
executed sales agreement, of an arrangement exists, indicating there Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer, no further than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using work or processing is required by the BHP Billiton Group, the quantity the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
and quality of the goods has been determined with reasonable Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are accuracy, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is translated using the rate of exchange ruling at year end and the gains reasonably assured.
This is generally when title passes.
or losses on retranslation are included in the income statement, with In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency specify that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date provisions for site restoration and rehabilitation, which are capitalised the commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
For these sales, in property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
revenue is recognised on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales principally coal sales to adjoining power stations and diamond sales, title passes and revenue is recognised when the goods have been delivered.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 181 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 182 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for Cash flows associated with exploration and evaluation expenditure an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by comprising both amounts expensed and amounts capitalised are the customer for instance an assay for mineral content, recognition classified as investing activities in the cash flow statement.
of the sales revenue is based on the most recently determined Development expenditure estimate of product specifications.
When proved reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, For certain exchange traded commodities, the sales price is capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as determined on a provisional basis at the date of sale: adjustments to Assets under construction, and is disclosed as a component of the sales price subsequently occurs based on movements in quoted property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure for both market prices up to the date of final pricing.
The period between minerals and petroleum activities is capitalised and classified as provisional invoicing and final pricing is typically between 60 and 120 Assets under construction.
As the asset is not available for use, it days.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the is not depreciated.
On completion of development, any capitalised estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue exploration and evaluation expenditure, together with the subsequent adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales development expenditure, is classified as either Plant and equipment arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value recognised Property, plant and equipment as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated by reference to forward market prices.
Some assets acquired prior to Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable 1 July 1998 are measured at deemed cost, being the revalued amount from production.
of the asset immediately prior to that date.
Subsequent to 1 July 1998, the cost regime was applied to all assets.
Cost is the fair value of The BHP Billiton Group separately discloses sales of Group production consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition from sales of third party products due to the significant difference in or construction and includes the direct cost of bringing the asset to profit margin earned on these sales.
the location and condition necessary for operation and the direct cost Exploration and evaluation expenditure of dismantling and removing the asset.
Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral and Disposals petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the Disposals are taken to account in the income statement.
Where the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
disposal involves the sale or abandonment of a significant business Exploration and evaluation activity includes: or all of the assets associated with such a business the gain or loss researching and analysing historical exploration data is disclosed as an exceptional item.
gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical and geophysical studies Mineral rights exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling Acquired mineral rights are capitalised and classified as Other mineral determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource assets and depreciated from commencement of production.
surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements conducting market and finance studies The BHP Billiton Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration or convey a legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable all Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific declared reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs with current production schedules.
paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation of The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment including capitalised licence costs is charged to the income statement as initial and any subsequent capital expenditure are depreciated to incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case the their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of the expenditure may be capitalised: specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated mine In respect of minerals activities: or mineral lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and useful the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest lives are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is taken into which was previously acquired in a business combination and account in the determination of remaining depreciation charges.
The measured at fair value on acquisition, or where the existence of major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a commercially viable mineral deposit has been established.
a unit of production and or straight-line basis using estimated lives In respect of petroleum activities: indicated below, except that where assets are dedicated to a mine or the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest petroleum lease the below useful lives are subject to the lesser of the for which it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped by asset categorys useful life and the life of the mine or lease, unless the future exploitation or sale: or assets are readily transferable to another productive mine or lease: at the balance sheet date, exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the Buildings 25 to 50 years existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Land not depreciated Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered to be Plant, machinery and equipment 4 to 30 years tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, it is recorded as an Mineral rights based on reserves on a unit intangible asset.
As the asset is not available for use, it is not of production basis depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration, evaluation and based on reserves on a unit is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential development expenditure on of production basis impairment is indicated, assessment is performed for each area mineral assets and other mining of interest in conjunction with the group of operating assets assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is Petroleum interests based on the proved attributed.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been discovered developed oil and gas reserves but that require major capital expenditure before production can on a unit of production basis begin are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration work is under Leasehold buildings over the life of the lease up to way or planned.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not a maximum of 50 years expected to be recovered it is charged to the income statement.
Vehicles 3 to 5 years straight-line 182 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 183 1 Accounting policies continued Leased assets The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates and assumptions, including: Assets held under leases which result in the BHP Billiton Group receiving substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the Estimates assumptions: Basis: asset finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value Future production Proved and probable reserves, of the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present value resource estimates and, in certain of the minimum lease payments.
cases, expansion projects The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest Commodity prices Forward market and contract prices, and bearing liabilities.
The interest element is allocated to accounting longer-term price protocol estimates periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation.
Exchange rates Current forward market exchange rates Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments are included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Discount rates Cost of capital risk adjusted for the lease term.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating resource concerned lease payments in relation to surplus lease space when it is first determined that the space will be of no probable future benefit.
Overburden removal costs Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability when received Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed during and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments between the initial development of a mine site in order to access the mineral rental expense and reduction of the liability.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
The directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant Impairment of non-current assets overhead expenditure are capitalised as development costs.
Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
Formal Capitalisation of development stripping costs ceases, and depreciation impairment tests for all other assets are performed when there is an of those capitalised costs commences, at the time that saleable indication of impairment.
At each reporting date, an assessment is materials begin to be extracted from the mine.
Depreciation of made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
capitalised development stripping costs is determined on a unit of The BHP Billiton Group conducts annually an internal review of asset production basis for each separate area of interest.
values which is used as a source of information to assess for any Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life indications of impairment.
External factors, such as changes in of a mine.
This activity is referred to as production stripping and expected future processes, costs and other market factors, are also commences at the time that saleable materials begin to be extracted monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any indication from the mine.
The costs of production stripping are charged to the of impairment exists an estimate of the assets recoverable amount is income statement as operating costs when the ratio of waste material calculated.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of fair to ore extracted for an area of interest is expected to be constant value less direct costs to sell and the assets value in use.
When the ratio of waste to ore is not If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, expected to be constant, production stripping costs are accounted for the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income as follows: statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet All costs are initially charged to the income statement and classified to its recoverable amount.
When the current ratio of waste to ore is greater than the estimated Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs inclusive of an from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between allocation of relevant overhead expenditure is capitalised.
Fair value for mineral assets is In subsequent years when the ratio of waste to ore is less than the generally determined as the present value of the estimated future cash estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping costs flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including is charged to the income statement as operating costs.
any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using assumptions that an independent market participant may take into account.
These The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged in cash flows are discounted by an appropriate discount rate to arrive at a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense for the a net present value of the asset.
financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
Changes to the estimated life-of-mine ratio are accounted for prospectively from Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated future the date of the change.
cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is determined by Capitalised development stripping costs are classified as Property, applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and plant and equipment and capitalised production stripping costs are cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are classified as Other mineral assets.
These assets are considered in different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the combination with other assets of an operation for the purpose of value in use calculation is likely to give a different result usually undertaking impairment assessments.
lower to a fair value calculation.
Inventories In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment Inventories, including work in progress, are valued at the lower of cost calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on the basis of to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on an identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing raw generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows materials and cost of production, including attributable mining and from other assets or groups of assets.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 183 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 184 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Finance costs Provision for employee benefits Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee benefits, relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying including on-costs.
In relation to industry-based long service leave assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their funds, the BHP Billiton Groups liability, including obligations for intended future use.
funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value of dedicated assets of such funds.
Finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying the annual leave and accumulating sick leave obliged to be settled within interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during 12 months of the reporting date, are recognised in sundry creditors or the period to the average amount of capitalised expenditure for the provision for employee benefits in respect of employees services up to qualifying assets during the period.
the reporting date and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for non-accumulating Taxation sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken and measured at the rates paid or payable.
Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except The liability for long service leave for which settlement within 12 to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, months of the reporting date can not be deferred is recognised in the in which case the tax is recognised in equity.
current provision for employee benefits and is measured in accordance with annual leave described above.
The liability for long service leave Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the for which settlement can be deferred beyond 12 months from the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end, and reporting date is recognised in the non-current provision for employee includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
benefits and measured as the present value of expected future Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between the to the reporting date.
Consideration is given to expected future wage carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction service.
Expected future payments are discounted using market yields purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount at the reporting date on national government bonds with terms to for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale or maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is included estimated future cash outflows.
in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally with respect to Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of The BHP Billiton Group operates or participates in a number of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business combination pension including superannuation schemes throughout the world.
or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit : and The funding of the schemes complies with local regulations.
The temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, jointly assets of the schemes are generally held separately from those controlled entities and associates to the extent that the BHP Billiton of the BHP Billiton Group and are administered by trustees or Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and management boards.
the temporary difference is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the For defined contribution schemes or those operated on an industryexpected manner and timing of realisation or settlement of the carrying wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets attributable to amount of assets and liabilities, with the exception of items that have the participation by the BHP Billiton Groups employees, the pension a tax base solely derived under capital gains tax legislation, using tax charge is calculated on the basis of contributions payable.
rates enacted or substantively enacted at period end.
To the extent that For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged an items tax base is solely derived from the amount deductible under to the income statement so as to recognise current and past service capital gains tax legislation, deferred tax is determined as if such costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of amounts are deductible in determining future assessable income.
any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance sheet can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance based on the present value of defined benefit obligations, less any sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of plan assets, that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and except that any such asset can not exceed the total of unrecognised liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the past service costs and the present value of refunds from and same taxation authority and the BHP Billiton Group has both the right reductions in future contributions to the plan.
and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net Certain BHP Billiton Group companies provide post-retirement medical or simultaneous basis.
In some cases the benefits are provided Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the arrangements when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is retirees and covered family members contribute.
In some schemes considered to be the case when they are imposed under government there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
These schemes authority and the amount payable is calculated by reference to are recognised on the same basis as described above for defined revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment benefit pension schemes.
for items comprising temporary differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and included in expenses.
184 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 185 1 Accounting policies continued Restoration and rehabilitation Financial instruments The mining, extraction and processing activities of the BHP Billiton All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of Group normally give rise to obligations for site restoration or consideration paid.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at rehabilitation.
Restoration and rehabilitation works can include facility fair value or amortised cost less impairment.
Where non-derivative decommissioning and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste financial assets are carried at fair value, gains and losses on materials: land rehabilitation: and site restoration.
The extent of remeasurement are recognised directly in equity unless the financial work required and the associated costs are dependent on the assets have been designated as being held at fair value through profit, requirements of relevant authorities and the BHP Billiton Groups in which case the gains and losses are recognised directly in the environmental policies.
Financial assets are designated as being held at fair value through profit when this is necessary to reduce Provisions for the cost of each restoration and rehabilitation program measurement inconsistencies for related assets and liabilities.
are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
All financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included in the provision appropriate initial cost and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
encompass all restoration and rehabilitation activity expected to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Routine arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they operating costs that may impact the ultimate restoration and are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and as an integral part of a mining or production process, are not included are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends on as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, as an expense and liability when the event gives rise to an obligation if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement of fair which is probable and capable of reliable estimation.
value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, alternative market Restoration and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is estimated expected value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value based on the BHP Billiton Groups views on relevant future prices, net and determined according to the probability of alternative estimates of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling and of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used are other risks implicit in such estimates.
specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations of Forward exchange contracts held for hedging purposes are generally future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest rate swaps held for flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental hedging purposes are generally accounted for as fair value hedges.
and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, BHP Billiton Group Derivatives embedded within other contractual arrangements and the environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
majority of commodity based transactions executed through derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
When provisions for restoration and rehabilitation are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, Fair value hedges representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and of the operation.
The capitalised cost of restoration and rehabilitation qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, activities is recognised in Property, plant and equipment and together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset depreciated accordingly.
The value of the provision is progressively or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference increased over time as the effect of discounting unwinds, creating an between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged risk expense recognised in financial expenses.
constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised immediately Restoration and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for changes in the income statement.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in the Cash flow hedges corresponding capitalised cost, except where a reduction in the provision is greater than the undepreciated capitalised cost of the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that related assets, in which case the capitalised cost is reduced to nil and are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective Changes to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Adjustments to the estimated amount and Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement timing of future restoration and rehabilitation cash flows are a normal in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, occurrence in light of the significant judgements and estimates when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition involved.
Factors influencing those changes include: of a non-financial asset for example, plant and equipment purchases revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in developments in technology equity are transferred from equity and included in the measurement regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies of the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
changes in the estimated costs of anticipated activities, including the effects of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative hedge gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 185 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 186 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia and the UK, and the US for SEC filing purposes, are based on prices prevailing at the time Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
of the estimates as required under Statement of Financial Accounting Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income issued by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board.
Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change Available for sale and trading investments from period to period, and because additional geological data is Available for sale and trading investments are measured at fair value.
generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments are may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves may recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on affect the BHP Billiton Groups financial results and financial position in the remeasurement of available for sale investments are recognised a number of ways, including the following: directly in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement Asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value future cash flows.
is judged to represent an impairment.
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined by the Application of critical accounting policies and estimates units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of assets change.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or charged management to make judgements and estimates and form to the income statement may change due to changes in stripping assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may statements, and the reported revenue and expenses during the periods change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations presented therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its about the timing or cost of these activities.
judgements and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent The carrying value of deferred tax assets may change due to liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Management bases its judgements changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
and estimates on historical experience and on other various factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of Exploration and evaluation expenditure which form the basis of the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual The BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy for exploration and results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions evaluation expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being and conditions.
capitalised for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have The BHP Billiton Group has identified the following critical not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the accounting policies under which significant judgements, estimates existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain and assumptions are made and where actual results may differ from estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may particular whether an economically viable extraction operation can be materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new future periods.
If, after having capitalised the Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions may expenditure under the policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the income statement.
Reserve estimates Development expenditure Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the BHP Billiton Groups Development activities commence after project sanctioning properties.
In order to calculate reserves, estimates and assumptions by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied by are required about a range of geological, technical and economic management in determining when a project is economically viable.
factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, In exercising this judgement, management is required to make certain recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity estimates and assumptions similar to those described above for demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, If, after having commenced the development activity, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing a judgement is made that a development asset is impaired, the geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require appropriate amount will be written off to the income statement.
complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to interpret the data.
Property, plant and equipment recoverable amount The BHP Billiton Group is required to determine and report ore reserves In accordance with BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy, each in Australia and the UK under the principles incorporated in the asset or cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
Reserves December 2004, known as the JORC Code.
The JORC Code If any such indication exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount requires the use of reasonable investment assumptions to calculate is performed and an impairment loss recognised to the extent that reserves.
Reserve reporting requirements for SEC United States of carrying amount exceeds recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount America filings are specified in Industry Guide 7 which requires of an asset or cash generating group of assets is measured at the economic assumptions to be based on current economic conditions, higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
which may differ from assumptions based on reasonable investment assumptions.
For example, if current prices remain above long-term historical averages for an extended period of time, internal assumptions about future prices may involve the use of lower prices to estimate reserves under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result in lower estimates of reserves.
Accordingly, for SEC filings, assumed future selling prices are based on existing contract prices for commodities sold under long-term contracts, such as iron ore and coal, and the three-year historical average for commodities that are traded on the London Metals Exchange, such as copper and nickel.
186 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:54 PM Page 187 1 Accounting policies continued Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed and from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time.
knowledgeable and willing parties, and is generally determined as Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites are the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the restoration and from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion rehabilitation asset and provision.
Such changes give rise to a change prospects, and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is also generally in future depreciation and financial charges.
For closed sites, changes determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows, to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income but only those expected to arise from the continued use of the asset statement.
in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Present values are In addition to the uncertainties noted above, certain restoration and determined using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to rehabilitation activities are subject to legal disputes and depending the risks inherent in the asset.
Future cash flow estimates are based on on the ultimate resolution of these issues the final liability for these expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering matters could vary.
current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves see Reserve estimates above, operating costs, restoration and Taxation rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
This policy requires The BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy for taxation requires management to make these estimates and assumptions which are managements judgement as to the types of arrangements considered subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that to be a tax on income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may also required in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital impairment would be charged against the income statement.
losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is Defined benefit superannuation schemes dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
For defined benefit schemes, other than certain industry-wide Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in schemes, the cost of benefits charged to the income statement investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in foreign includes current and past service costs, interest costs on defined tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of retained benefit obligations and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the net of expected returns on plan assets.
An asset or liability is foreseeable future.
consequently recognised in the balance sheet based on the present Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and value of defined obligations, less any unrecognised past service costs repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates and the fair value of plan assets.
For all other schemes, the cost of of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production providing benefits is recognised based on contributions payable.
and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the restoration and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and reporting date on high quality corporate bonds in countries that have other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required developed corporate bond markets.
However, where developed about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a by reference to national government bonds.
In both instances, the possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, bonds are selected with terms to maturity and currency that match, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred as closely as possible, the estimated future cash flows.
tax liabilities recognised on the balance sheet and the amount of The accounting policy requires management to make judgements other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying amount of determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, Rounding of amounts changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy Amounts in this financial report have, unless otherwise indicated, been and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making rounded to the nearest million dollars.
these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Where actual Comparatives experience differs to these estimates, actuarial gains and losses Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them are recognised directly in equity.
Refer to note 22 for details of the on the same basis as current period figures.
Provision for restoration and rehabilitation The BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy requires the recognition of provisions for the restoration and rehabilitation of each site.
The provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future costs required.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the amount of restoration and rehabilitation provisions.
Those estimates and assumptions deal with uncertainties such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and costs of required restoration and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
