5260 BHPB AReport Pt2 11 9 07 6:56 PM Page 113 remains a significant issue for the Company.
We are keenly aware 4.6 Healthy people of the need to move from a dependence on personal protective Our values equipment to implementing engineering processes so as to reduce these exposures.
We recognise that a healthy workforce and supporting community is vital for business productivity and growth.
Our approach to Measurement of noise-induced hearing loss in BHP Billiton is health aims to give our current and prospective employees based on the U.
S Occupational Safety and Health Administration confidence that they are being well looked after and that their Standards, which are among the most stringent in the world, and ability to perform their role is critical to BHP Billiton, and to dispel is focused on detecting noise-induced hearing loss at the earliest perceptions that working in the resources sector is a difficult job.
We have had a strong focus on applying these standards at all operations, resulting in 156 diagnosed cases in 2006 07, Stakeholder expectations an increase of 116 from the previous year.
Our experience indicates that many of our people are motivated While Company-wide noise exposure rates have remained stable to stay in our industry for the long term, and that they need over the last five years, we are confident that we are detecting support and advice to stay fit for their roles.
We understand that cases of noise-induced hearing loss at an early stage.
This should we need to consider the age of our workforce in our approach assist in preventing further deterioration of hearing in these cases.
to medical assessments and fitness initiatives.
At the same time, we are actively promoting activities designed We are also hearing that community health issues such as to reduce noise exposure, with particular focus directed to noise HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria threaten a growing number management for maintenance workshops and the use of of communities throughout the world, and that our skills and underground ventilation fans.
knowledge from dealing with these diseases in certain countries Going forward, we are targeting a further 15 per cent reduction in may be of benefit to other regions facing these challenges.
potential employee exposures above occupational exposure limits.
Stakeholder engagement Key to this has been the identification and activity to address the top three exposure risks faced by each of our CSGs.
We work with a range of global companies to investigate and develop leading practice occupational health initiatives.
Current examples Largely as a result of the number of new cases of noise-induced include our work with 3M, a diversified technology company, which hearing loss, our incidence of occupational illness has increased, is helping to design materials and personal protective equipment to by 17 per cent against the baseline year FY2003.
At the same time, reduce exposures to chemicals, and the technical review and pilot we improved our coverage of our medical surveillance program program with Optalert, an Australian-based company, for new by five per cent, with 89 per cent of employees requiring medical technology to detect the early signs of worker fatigue.
examinations completing them during the year.
We are working with the International Council on Mining and During the year, we received the Global Business Coalition on Metals to develop benchmark occupational exposure limits for HIV AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Commendation for Business the mining industry and we participate in their taskforce on Excellence on Malaria.
The commendation recognises our malaria, tuberculosis and HIV AIDS.
continued support for malaria control in southern Africa.
We have committed US$2 million over the next three years to Our long-term efforts in HIV AIDS education and treatment in the clinical trials of a new HIV therapeutic vaccine in South Africa.
Africa are returning encouraging results: 60 per cent of employees Our commitment has led the way in developing an international participate in testing, and the prevalence rate for our employees consortium for further support of the project.
The trial, which is in southern Africa is half the average prevalence rate of South in the final stages of review by the South African Medical Research Africans aged between 15 and 49 years.
We believe our efforts Centre, offers hope of treatment for the disease and is likely to in communication and counselling have significantly contributed proceed in 2008.
We are also using our African experience to assist to this lower prevalence rate.
the Asia-Pacific Coalition on HIV AIDS as they develop programs Responding to the World Health Organisations assessment that in Papua New Guinea, Laos, Thailand and Cambodia.
Malaria is we are still at significant risk of a global avian flu pandemic, a significant health issue in southern Mozambique, northern Brazil we are continuing our proactive approach with the development and Pakistan, where our operations are located, and in emerging of Company Guidelines for business continuity planning and crisis markets, such as Guinea and Angola.
This year, we worked with management and practice drills at higher risk locations, such the Guinean Government to expand South Africas successful as Indonesia and Singapore.
malaria spray-control program into their country.
Percentage of Employees in Potential Exposures 2006 07 Our approach Our businesses are diverse and face different health issues 100% related to such factors as their production processes and locations.
90% All sites are required to finalise their baseline health exposure 80% assessments on occupational exposure hazards by airborne contaminants and noise by 30 June 2008 and on physical 70% exposures by 30 June 2010.
We are introducing a targeted 60% 15 per cent reduction by 2012 for employee exposures over the occupational exposure limit that currently necessitates strict use 50% of personal protective equipment to avoid adverse health effects.
40% A key component of our reduction strategy will be a focus on specific exposure reduction initiatives for the top three exposure risks in 30% each of our CSGs annually over this period.
20% Our five-year Health strategy takes a holistic approach to medical 10% assessment.
We are stepping up our focus on fatigue management as part of our Fit for Work Fit for Life program.
We aim to create 0% a leading practice working environment, where employees can expect the offer of regular medical assessments of both their fitness for work and general health.
Our performance Between Action Levels In other words, would be and Occupational Exposure Limit exposed if not wearing PPE.
Over the last four years, we have experienced a reduction in Greater than Occupational Exposure Limit Action Level is 50% of the potential employee occupational exposures above regulatory Occupational Exposure Limit.
Greater than Noise Exposure Limit limits for most exposures.
Noise-induced hearing loss, however, BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 113 Aluminium Base Metals Iron Ore Metallurgical Coal Manganese Carbon Steel Materials Stainless Steel Materials Energy Coal Petroleum Diamonds and Specialty Products BHP Billiton
