Sustainability Report continued Iraq in 1996.
The allegations were part of a broader independent 4.5 Sound governance inquiry into dealings between the Australian Wheat Board and the Our values Iraqi Government.
The inquiry concluded in late 2006 and made no adverse findings against BHP Billiton or our current employees.
At BHP Billiton we believe that, to maintain our position as one The findings of our own internal review were consistent with these of the worlds leading companies, we must commit to the highest conclusions, but a number of improvement actions were identified ethical and governance standards in all our dealings.
To do so and recommended by the internal review.
These were adopted by is consistent with our Charter values and is fundamental to our the Chief Executive Officer, Charles Goodyear.
Our goal is to foster a culture that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate The improvement actions were designed to ensure that we meet integrity, and respect for others.
the highest ethical standards in all our dealings.
This is consistent Achieving our corporate objective of creating long-term value with our Charter values and is a fundamental plank of our licence to operate.
for shareholders is likely to require the pursuit of opportunities in countries where the standards of governance and conduct are A comprehensive review of our governance approach was less mature.
We will not reduce our standards of conduct when conducted to ensure the effective implementation of the operating in such countries.
The project was completed in June 2007.
All improvement actions have been effectively implemented, Stakeholder expectations save for a review of the Guide to Business Conduct, which Through our relationships with host governments, business is on schedule to be completed in June 2008. partners and our host communities, we are aware of the In addition to reviewing the Guide to Business Conduct, accelerating shift in societal values and expectations and the corresponding demand for greater corporate accountability.
the improvement actions included: implementing a framework for operating effectively and ethically We are hearing that our stakeholders expect transparency in all in countries where the standards of governance and conduct are of our community investment programs, particularly in countries less mature where we do not have significant operations.
adopting universal criteria for community investment programs We also understand that we need to demonstrate how our and enhancing supporting processes.
In developing the criteria, governance commitments translate into action, by incorporating feedback was obtained from the Forum on Corporate sustainability principles into our strategies, plans, investments and Responsibility and other external stakeholders budgets, and our approach to auditing and responsible closure.
amending certain policies to ensure relevant business conduct and governance considerations were thoroughly incorporated Stakeholder engagement enhancing our recruitment practices and standard recruitment Regular dialogue with host communities and governments contracts.
is critical to understanding potential sustainability concerns and our ability to reflect these issues in our broader In 2007, 32 sites were audited against our HSEC Management governance framework.
Standards, achieving an overall average conformance of 3.9 out of 5, which is on track to meet our target of full conformance In China, for example, we have made a five-year commitment greater than 4 out of 5 with the Standards by 30 June 2008. to sponsor senior government executives to attend annual threemonth professional development programs with Peking Universitys Adherence to these Standards continues to deliver improvements School of Government and several other prominent academic in our approach to managing sustainability risks, and in 2007 we institutions.
The first program held in 2006 provided training commenced three key projects to further improve our performance: in safety and general business leading practices.
Catastrophic risk a pilot program designed to enhance our We continue to value the candid input of our Forum on Corporate approach to managing critical safety risks Responsibility.
During the year, the Forum provided valuable Emergency preparedness a review of site plans combined with feedback and input to our activities in climate change, community training workshops designed to enhance our proactive approach investment and stewardship.
Forum members also visited a to emergency management.
number of our operations to further their understanding of the Contractor management a program to engage our contractors sustainable development challenges we face and our approach in dialogue and provide greater accessibility to our safety to our aspirational goal of Zero Harm.
Our approach We received 90 calls to the Business Conduct Helpline in FY2007.
The most common issues related to human resources concerns, In addition to our corporate governance practices, we have a gifts and travel, and harassment pornography.
number of documents that govern our approach to sustainable development.
These include our Sustainable Development Policy, HSEC Management Standards and Guide to Business Conduct.
Underpinning these is our Board Governance Document, which requires us to consider all risk factors that could affect the Group: robust Charter values: and a mature organisational structure.
The Sustainability Committee of our Board continues to oversee HSEC strategy and policy, as well as other important initiatives and activities for the Group.
Management continues to hold primary responsibility for HSEC performance and for driving Business Conduct Helpline Enquiries Business Conduct Helpline Enquiries our commitment to Zero Harm.
By Category 2006 07 By Region 2006 07 Our assets are benchmarked through a triennial peer review process against our HSEC Management Standards.
These Gifts and Travel 22% Australia Asia 76% Standards are supported by key guidance documents Human Resources 22% Africa 9% Harassment Pornography 14% Latin America 6% and processes, which are regularly reviewed to ensure our Other 14% North America 6% assets operate under a leading practice governance framework.
Conflict of Interest 9% Europe 3% Facilitation Payments Our performance Bribery Fraud 7% As reported in our 2006 Sustainability Report, allegations Outside Activities 7% Use of Company Property were raised against BHP Billiton surrounding the payment Resources 5% by BHP Billiton Petroleum for a shipment of wheat delivered to 112 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007
