5260 BHPB AReport Pt1 11 9 07 6:54 PM Page 89 regulatory standards and community expectations are constantly Our profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton of US$13.4 billion evolving and generally becoming more onerous.
As a result, we may represents an increase of 28.4 per cent over the prior year.
be exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and Attributable profit excluding exceptional items of US$13.7 billion unforeseen environmental remediation expenses, despite our best represents an increase of 34.7 per cent over last year and a more efforts to work with governments, community groups and scientists than sevenfold increase since our FY2002 result our inaugural to keep pace with regulations, law and public expectation.
result following the BHP and Billiton merger.
It is our fourth consecutive record annual result, with five of our nine CSGs Two examples of material uncertainties identified by management generating record Underlying EBIT.
as key risks to our business are: The impact upon workers in our South African business of the Revenue was US$39.5 billion, up US$7.3 billion for the year ended high HIV AIDS infection rate, despite the programs and 30 June 2007, from US$32.2 billion for the year to 30 June 2006. insurances we have put in place to mitigate the impact of Revenue together with our share of jointly controlled entities HIV AIDS on our peoples lives.
revenue was US$47.5 billion, up 21.4 per cent from US$39.1 billion The increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and in the corresponding period.
potential reductions in fossil fuel consumption per capita and On 22 August 2007, the Board declared a final dividend of 27.0 fresh water used.
Public pressure has increased, brought about US cents per share, thus bringing the total dividends declared for by increased awareness in many countries in which we operate.
During the year, we announced US$13 billion of capital management initiatives.
A detailed 3.5 Application of critical accounting policies discussion and analysis of our dividend and capital management may be found in section 3.7.
and estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires Year ended 30 June 2006 compared with year ended 30 June 2005 management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Our profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton for the year reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of ended 30 June 2006 was US$10.5 billion compared with US$6.4 contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and billion for the prior year, an increase of 63.4 per cent.
Excluding the reported revenue and costs during the periods presented the exceptional items outlined in Exceptional items below our therein.
On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton was US$10.2 billion estimates and judgements in relation to assets, liabilities, compared with US$6.4 billion for the prior year, an increase of contingent liabilities, revenue and costs.
Management bases its 58.0 per cent.
estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various Revenue was US$32.2 billion, up 20.3 per cent from US$26.7 billion other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, last year.
Revenue from third party products decreased 22.4 per the results of which form the basis of making judgements about cent to US$5.0 billion for the year ended 30 June 2006 from the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily US$6.4 billion for the year ended 30 June 2005.
Revenue apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these together with our share of jointly controlled entities revenue estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
was US$39.1 billion, up 25.5 per cent from US$31.2 billion last year.
The critical accounting polices under which we are required to On 23 August 2006, the Board declared a final dividend of 18.5 make estimates and assumptions and where actual results may US cents per share.
This represented an increase of 27.6 per cent differ from these estimates under different assumptions and over the previous years final dividend of 14.5 US cents per share.
conditions and may materially affect our financial results or This brought the total dividends declared for FY2006 to 36.0 US financial position reported in future periods are as follows: cents per share, an increase of 8.0 US cents per share, or 28.6 per reserve estimates cent, over FY2005.
exploration and evaluation expenditure development expenditure In May 2006, we completed a US$2.0 billion capital management property, plant and equipment recoverable amount program.
Under that initiative, 114.8 million shares, or 1.9 per cent defined benefit superannuation schemes of the issued share capital of the BHP Billiton Group, were provision for restoration and rehabilitation repurchased.
Underlying EBIT In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information In discussing the operating results of our business, we focus regarding the nature of the judgements and estimates and on a non-GAAP IFRS or US financial measure we refer to as potential impacts on our financial results or financial position in Underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT is the key measure that the financial statements.
This information can be found in note 1 management uses internally to assess the performance of our Accounting policies in the financial statements.
business, make decisions on the allocation of resources and assess operational management.
Management uses this measure because 3.6 Operating results financing structures and tax regimes differ across our assets, and substantial components of our tax and interest charges are levied In this analysis, all references to FY2007 or the current year are to at a Group, rather than an operational, level.
Underlying EBIT is the year ended 30 June 2007, all references to FY2006 are to the calculated as earnings before interest and taxation EBIT, which year ended 30 June 2006 and all references to FY2005 are to is referred to as profit from operations on the face of the income the year ended 30 June 2005. statement, and excludes the effects of: net financing costs and taxation of jointly controlled entities: and 3.6.
Year ended 30 June 2007 compared with year ended 30 June 2006 Under IFRS, we equity account all jointly controlled entities, resulting in the earnings net of financing costs and taxation of Our continued focus on growing production from high returning jointly controlled entities being included in our income statement assets throughout the cycle has allowed us to take advantage of under the single-line item share of profits from jointly controlled strong global market conditions and underpins our positive entities.
In order to provide our management and shareholders financial results.
We achieved record production for eight major with a consistent picture of the operational performance of our commodities and increased annual production for three further business, we exclude the financing costs and taxation of jointly commodities.
Production records were set by 17 assets excluding controlled entities from the profit from operations line to arrive suspended and sold operations.
This reflects our key operating at Underlying EBIT.
objective of delivering consistent, predictable and sustainable operating performance across all of our businesses providing a stable platform for growth.
