Dear Shareholder The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to assess whether it continues to meet the needs of BHP Welcome to the Remuneration Report for the 2007 financial year.
Recruitment and retention of the As you will be aware, a number of senior management changes highly-skilled executives needed to deliver BHP Billitons strategy have been announced since the beginning of 2007.
Charles remain key priorities for the Committee.
During the next year, Chip Goodyear has decided to retire and, on 1 October 2007, we will revisit our incentive arrangements to make sure we are will be succeeded as CEO by Marius Kloppers.
Charles will step best placed to deliver on the imperatives of recruitment and down as an executive Director this year, but will stay employed retention, while ensuring that the interests of senior executives until 1 January 2008 to assist Marius with his transition program.
Chris Lynch retired on 31 August 2007, having stepped down as an executive Director on 30 June 2007.
John Fast will be On behalf of the Committee, thank you for your interest leaving later this month.
Details of the remuneration and in our Report.
leaving arrangements applicable to these individuals are set out in section 4 of this Report.
In 2006, shareholders approved the introduction of an all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, which allows employees to acquire shares up to the value of US$5,000 in John Buchanan any year.
These are then matched if the employee holds the Chairman, Remuneration Committee shares and remains in employment for a further three years.
6 September 2007 The initial take-up, following the launch in April 2007, was 33 per cent of eligible employees.
Reporting requirements The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability The senior management team of the Group during FY2007 was and transparency, and to ensuring that remuneration the Office of Chief Executive OCE.
In July 2007, the name of this arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and group changed to the Group Management Committee GMC.
Operating under delegated authority from the The role of the GMC is consistent with the role of the OCE Board, its activities are governed by Terms of Reference adopted as it operated throughout the year.
The names and titles by the Board in June 2006, which are available on our website.
of the members of the OCE who served during the year The Committee focuses on: are set out in section 4 of this Report.
Remuneration policy and its specific application to the CEO, Australian and International Financial Reporting Standards require the executive Directors and other executives reporting to the BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for key management CEO Office of Chief Executive OCE as well as the general personnel KMP.
KMP is defined as those persons having authority application to all our employees and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the The determination of levels of reward to the CEO, the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
executive Directors and other members of the OCE For the purposes of this Report, it has been determined that the Providing guidance to the Chairman on evaluating the KMP are the Directors and the members of the OCE who served performance of the CEO during FY2007.
In addition, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Effective communication with shareholders on the remuneration requires BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in respect of the policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board.
five highest-paid executives below Board level.
In FY2007, the five highest-paid executives below Board level were all members of the The members of the Committee during FY2007 were Dr John OCE and are, therefore, already included as KMP.
Buchanan Chairman, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, Dr David Jenkins and the Hon E. Gail fide Planque.
The Committee met seven times in 3.
Remuneration policy and structure FY2007, and attendance at those meetings is set out on page 39 of this Annual Review.
At the invitation of the Committee, The Committee recognises that we operate in a global Mr Don Argus the Group Chairman, Mr Charles Goodyear the environment and that our performance depends on the quality CEO, Mr Marcus Randolph in his capacity as Chief Organisation of our people.
It keeps the remuneration policy under regular Development Officer and Ms Karen Wood in her capacity as review to ensure it is appropriate for the needs of the Group.
Chief Governance Officer and Group Company Secretary attended meetings except where matters associated with their own 3.1 Key principles of our remuneration policy remuneration were considered.
Mr Derek Steptoe Vice President The key principles of our remuneration policy are to: Group Remuneration also attended meetings by invitation.
Provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain A report from the Committee and details of Board and Committee highly-skilled executives willing to work around the world performance appear on pages 38 and 41 of this Annual Review.
Apply demanding key performance indicators KPIs, including The Committee has access to advice and views from those financial and non-financial measures of performance invited to attend meetings, as mentioned above, and can draw on Link a large component of pay to our performance and the services from a range of external sources including remuneration creation of value for our shareholders consultants.
A list of all consultants, together with the type of Ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate services supplied and whether services are provided elsewhere the deployment of human resources around our businesses in the Group, is available on our website.
Kepler Associates LLP, Limit severance payments on termination to pre-established independent advisers to the Committee, supplies specialist contractual arrangements that do not commit us to making remuneration advice.
They do not provide any other services unjustified payments.
The Committee is confident that these principles, which were applied in the year under review, and will be applied in FY2008 and beyond, continue to meet the Groups objectives.
