Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 Cash and cash equivalents income statement over the vesting period.
The Deferred tax is provided for on the profits of Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the accrual for this charge is recognised in equity overseas subsidiaries where it is reasonably balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the shareholders funds.
When the options are foreseeable that distribution of the profit back to cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents exercised, the proceeds received net of any the UK will take place.
comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with transaction costs are credited to share capital for banks and other short-term, highly liquid the par value and the surplus to share premium.
Capital investments which are subject to insignificant risk The capital structure of the Group consists of equity of change in fair value.
Other benefits attributable to equity holders of the Company, Other employee incentive schemes and long-term comprising issued capital, reserves and retained Treasury shares service awards, including sabbatical leave, are earnings as disclosed in notes 22 and 24, and Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain recognised when they accrue to employees.
subordinated debt as disclosed in note 26.
For or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale, issue or A provision is made for the estimated liability for business planning purposes account is also taken cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any long-service leave as a result of services rendered of the Groups uncalled debt facilities.
consideration paid or received is recognised directly by employees up to the balance sheet date.
The Amlin corporate members which support Other income Syndicate 2001 are required to hold regulatory Leases Information fee income is recognised on an earned capital in compliance with the rules issued by the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever basis.
UKs Financial Services Authority FSA.
In addition, the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the being Lloyds operations, they are also subject to risks and rewards to the Group.
All other leases are Taxation Lloyds capital requirements.
Under FSA rules, the classified as operating leases.
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax corporate members must hold capital in excess of currently payable and deferred tax.
the higher of two amounts.
The first is the Pillar 1 Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase requirement, as prescribed by EU directives, transactions are capitalised in the balance sheet The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit calculated by applying fixed percentages to and depreciated over their useful lives.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as premiums and claims.
The second, Pillar 2, is an capital value is the lower of the fair value of the reported in the income statement because it Individual Capital Assessment ICA calculated leased asset and the present value of the minimum excludes items of income or expense that are internally by the firm.
The ICA is defined as the level lease payments.
Payments under finance leases are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never of capital that is required to contain the probability apportioned between finance charges and the taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for of insolvency to no greater than 0.5%.
The ICA reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a current tax is calculated using tax rates that have calculation considers all ultimate losses incurred consistent rate of interest on the remaining balance been enacted or substantively enacted by the over a one year business planning horizon, and any of the lease liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged Deferred tax is recognised on differences between The ICA calculation basis is generally considered to to income in the period in which they become the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the be broadly equivalent to a BBB insurance financial payable in accordance with the terms of the lease.
financial statements and the corresponding tax strength rating.
For the purposes of setting Lloyds bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and capital requirements, Lloyds currently uplifts all Employee benefits is accounted for using the balance sheet liability ICAs by 35% to bring the capital to a level to i.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally support a higher financial strength rating.
The final The Group participates in a number of pension recognised for all taxable temporary differences and capital requirement is then subject to a minimum of schemes, including one defined benefit scheme, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that 40% of the syndicates agreed regulatory premium defined contribution schemes and personal pension it is probable that taxable profits will be available capacity limit.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not The Syndicate also benefits from mutualised capital The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme is a recognised if the temporary difference arises from within the Lloyds Central Fund, for which a variable multi-employer scheme.
There is insufficient goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in annual levy, which is 0.5% of syndicate gross information available to reliably identify the Groups a business combination of other assets and premium for 2008, is payable.
proportionate share of the defined benefit liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax obligation, plan assets and post-employment costs profit nor the accounting profit.
The ICA is reviewed annually by Lloyds and associated with scheme.
Therefore it is accounted periodically by the FSA.
The FSA expect for as a defined contribution scheme and not a Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable management to apply their rules continuously.
For this scheme, where temporary differences arising on investments in If a firm breaches its Pillar 1 capital it must cease contractual obligations have been agreed, the net subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint trading: if Pillar 2 capital is breached steps must be present value of these payments is recognised as a ventures, except where the Group is able to control urgently taken to restore capital to the required level.
liability on the balance sheet.
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Due to the nature of the Lloyds capital setting probable that the temporary difference will not process, Funds at Lloyds requirements are formally The JE Mumford Underwriting Agencies Limited reverse in the foreseeable future.
assessed and funded twice yearly at discrete defined benefit scheme was transferred into the periods and must be met for the Syndicate to Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme in February The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is continue underwriting.
2007. reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that At 31 December 2007 the level of capital held by Pension contributions to schemes that are sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all the Amlin corporate members was more than accounted for as defined contribution plans are or part of the asset to be recovered, or to the extent 150 million in excess of the Pillar 1 requirement charged to the income statement when due.
that it has been utilised.
and more than 75 million in excess of the Pillar 2 requirement.
Equity compensation plans Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are The Group operates a number of executive and expected to apply in the period when the liability is The Group does not seek to retain any assets in employee share schemes.
Options issued after settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is excess of the Lloyds capital requirement within the 7 November 2002 are accounted for using the fair charged or credited to profit or loss, except when Lloyds framework, and any surplus is paid to the value method where the cost for providing equity it relates to items charged or credited directly to corporate entities in the Amlin group.
compensation is based on the fair value of the share equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt option or award at the date of the grant.
value is calculated using an option pricing model and the corresponding expense is recognised in the 50 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007
