Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 1.
Summary of significant At the date of authorisation of these financial Foreign currency translation accounting policies statements a number of standards and The Group presents its accounts in sterling since it The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation interpretations had been published but were not is subject to regulation in the United Kingdom and and significant accounting policies adopted in the yet effective.
These include: the net assets, liabilities and income of the Group preparation of Amlin plcs the Groups financial are currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar statements are set out below.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments: revenue is significant but the sterling revenue IFRIC 11, IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share stream is also currently material.
All group entities Basis of preparation Transactions: are incorporated in the United Kingdom with the These consolidated financial statements are IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements: exception of Amlin Bermuda Holdings Ltd and prepared in accordance with International Financial and Amlin Bermuda Ltd which are incorporated in Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the IFRIC 14, IAS 19: The Limit of Defined Benefit Bermuda and Amlin Singapore Pte Limited which European Union EU.
The financial statements Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their is incorporated in Singapore.
All Group entities comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
conduct business in a range of economic environments, primarily the United Kingdom, United The financial statements have been prepared on The directors anticipate that the adoption of these States of America and Europe.
Due to the regulatory the historical cost basis except for cash and cash standards and interpretations will have no material environment and the fact that the Group trades equivalents, financial investments, loans and impact on the financial statements except for through the Lloyds market, all Group companies receivables, share options and pension assets and additional disclosures.
incorporated in the United Kingdom have adopted liabilities which are measured at their fair value.
sterling as their functional currency.
The Group In accordance with IFRS 4, the Group has applied companies incorporated in Bermuda have adopted The accounting policies adopted in preparing these existing accounting practices for insurance the US dollar as their functional currency.
The Group financial statements are consistent with those contracts, modified as appropriate, to comply with company incorporated in Singapore has adopted followed in the preparation of the Groups annual the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
the Singapore dollar as its functional currency.
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Critical accounting judgements and key Where sterling is the functional currency, income sources of estimation uncertainty and expenditure in US dollars, Euros and Canadian Basis of consolidation The preparation of financial statements requires the dollars is translated at average rates of exchange for The financial statements consolidate the accounts use of estimates and assumptions that affect the the period.
Transactions denominated in other of the Company and subsidiary undertakings, reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the foreign currencies are translated using the including the Groups underwriting through disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the participation on Lloyds syndicates.
Subsidiaries Although these estimates are based on transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are are those entities in which the Group, directly or managements best knowledge of current events translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at indirectly, has the power to govern the operating and actions, actual results may ultimately differ from the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and and financial policies in order to gain economic those estimates.
liabilities are translated at the average rate prevailing benefits and includes the Groups Employee Benefit in the period in which the asset or liability first arose.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are Insurance contract liabilities prepared for the same reporting year as the parent The most significant estimate made in the financial Exchange differences arising from the conversion of company.
Consolidation adjustments are made to statements relates to the insurance unpaid claim overseas operations are accounted for through convert subsidiary accounts prepared under UK reserves and related loss adjustment expenses of reserves.
GAAP into IFRS so as to remove the effects of any the Group.
different accounting policies that may exist.
Where contracts to sell currency have been entered Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that The estimated provision for ultimate incurred losses into prior to the year end, the contracted rates have control is transferred to the Group and cease to be changes as more information becomes known been used.
Differences arising on the translation of consolidated from the date that control is transferred about the actual losses for which the initial foreign currency amounts on such items are out.
All inter-company balances, profits and provisions were set up.
The change in claims costs included in other operating expenses.
for prior period insurance claims represents the claims development of earlier reported years Insurance contracts premium Details of material subsidiaries included within the incurred in the current accounting period.
In 2007 Gross premium written comprise premium on consolidated financial statements can be found in there has been a net positive development of insurance contracts incepting during the financial note 40 to the parent company accounts.
109.0 million 2006: 68.9 million for the Group, year.
The estimated premium income in respect of reflecting the favourable experience in the 2006 and facility contracts is deemed to be written in full at the Changes to International Financial prior reported years.
Note 3 provides further detail inception of the contract.
Premium is disclosed Reporting Standards of the method the Group applies in estimating before the deduction of brokerage and taxes or In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7, insurance contract liabilities.
Estimates are included for Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related premium receivable after the period end but not yet amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Financial investments notified, as well as adjustments made in the year to Statements, and IFRS 4, Accounting for Insurance The methods and assumptions used by the Group premium written in prior accounting periods.
Contracts which are effective for annual reporting in estimating the fair value of financial assets are periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Premium is earned over the policy contract period.
impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes The earned element is calculated separately for to IAS 1 and IFRS 4 have been to expand the Deferred tax each contract on a 365ths basis.
For premium disclosures provided in the financial statements The estimates of deferred tax assets and tax written under facilities, such as under binding regarding the Groups management of capital and liabilities have been adjusted in the current period to authorities, the earned element is calculated based financial instruments see notes 2 and 3. reflect the reduction in the UK Corporate tax rate to on the estimated risk profile of the individual 28% on 1 April 2008.
Three Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Staff incentive plans The proportion of premium written, gross of IFRIC are effective for the current period.
These The Group recognises a liability and expense for staff commission payable, attributable to periods after are: IFRIC 8, which clarifies IFRS 2, Share-based incentive plans based on a formula that takes into the balance sheet date is deferred as a provision for Payments: IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded consideration the underwriting year profit after certain unearned premium.
The change in this provision is Derivatives: and IFRIC 10, Interim Financial adjustments.
Underwriting year profit is estimated taken to the income statement in order that revenue Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these based on current expectation of premiums and is recognised over the period of the risk.
Interpretations has not led to any changes in the claims and will change as more information is known.
Where estimates change related staff incentive plan liabilities may also change.
48 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred on and interest payable are recognised on an accruals Gains and losses on disposal of property and insurance contracts written during the financial year.
equipment are determined by reference to their They are incurred on the same basis as the earned carrying amount and are taken to the income proportions of the premium they relate to.
Repairs and renewals are charged to the acquisition costs are amortised over the period in i.
Syndicate capacity income statement when the expenditure is incurred.
which the related revenues are earned.
Deferred The cost of Lloyds syndicate participations that acquisition costs are reviewed at the end of each have been purchased in the Lloyds capacity Financial investments reporting period and are written off where they are auctions is capitalised at cost.
Syndicate capacity The Group has classified its financial investments as no longer considered to be recoverable.
is considered to have an indefinite life and is not fair value through income FV to the extent that subject to an annual amortisation charge.
The they are not reported as cash and cash equivalents.
Reinsurance premium ceded continuing value of the capacity is reviewed for This classification requires all fair value changes to Reinsurance premium ceded comprises the cost of impairment annually by reference to the expected be recognised immediately within the investment reinsurance arrangements placed and is accounted future profit streams to be earned from Syndicate return line in the income statement.
Investments are for in the same accounting period as the related 2001, with any impairment in value being charged assigned this classification at the time of acquisition.
The provision for reinsurers to the income statement.
Within the FV category, fixed maturity and equity share of unearned premium represents that part of securities are classified as trading as the Group reinsurance premium written which is estimated to ii.
Goodwill buys with the intention to resell.
All other securities be earned in following financial years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January are classified as other than trading within the FV 1999 was written off to reserves.
Insurance contracts liabilities: claims recognised between 1 January 1999 and the date Claims paid are defined as those claims of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 was Purchases and sales of investments are recognised transactions settled up to the balance sheet date capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis on the trade date, which is the date the Group including the internal and external claims settlement over its estimated useful life.
Following the transition commits to purchase or sell the assets.
These expenses allocated to those transactions.
The to IFRS this goodwill is stated at net book value at are initially recognised at fair value, and are reinsurers share represents recoveries received 1 January 2004.
Goodwill that was recognised subsequently re-measured at fair value based on from reinsurance protections in the period plus subsequent to 1 January 2004, representing the quoted bid prices.
Changes in the fair value of recoveries receivable against claims paid that have excess of the purchase consideration over fair value investments are included in the income statement in not been received at the balance sheet date, net of of net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is the period in which they arise.
The uncertainty any provision for bad debt.
tested for impairment annually, or when events or around bond valuation is discussed further in note 3. changes in circumstance indicate that it might be Unpaid claims reserves are made for known or impaired, by comparing the net present value of the In the Companys accounts, other financial anticipated liabilities under insurance contracts future earnings stream from the acquired subsidiary, investments in Group undertakings are stated at which have not been settled up to the balance sheet for the next five years against the carrying value of cost and are reviewed for impairment annually or date.
Included within the provision is an allowance the goodwill and the carrying value of the related net when events or changes in circumstances indicate for the future costs of settling those claims.
the carrying value may be impaired.
estimated based on past experience and current expectations of future cost levels.
Other intangible assets Derivative financial instruments Other intangible assets comprise costs directly Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an attributable to securing the intangible rights to date on which a derivative contract is entered into.
Provisions are subject to a customer contractual relationships.
Costs are Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments detailed quarterly review where forecast future cash recognised as intangible assets where they can be are recognised immediately in the income flows and existing amounts provided are reviewed identified separately and measured reliably and it is statement.
Fair values for over the counter and reassessed.
Any changes to the amounts held probable that they will be recovered by directly derivatives, are supplied by the relevant are adjusted through the income statement.
Other intangible assets are counterparty.
The Group has opted not to seek Provisions are established above an actuarial best carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and hedge accounting for its derivative instruments in estimate so that there is a reasonable chance of impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated on a the year.
release of reserves from one underwriting year to straight-line basis over the useful economic life the next.
which is estimated to be 3 years.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are measured at fair value.
The unpaid claims reserves also include, where Property and equipment Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable necessary, a reserve for unexpired risks where, at Property and equipment are stated at historical cost amounts are recognised in the income statement the balance sheet date, the estimated costs of less accumulated depreciation and provision for when there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
future claims and related deferred acquisition costs impairment where appropriate.
Depreciation is These are reversed when payment is received.
are expected to exceed the unearned premium calculated on the straight line method to write down provision.
In determining the need for an unexpired the cost of such assets to their residual values over Borrowings risk provision the underwriting divisions within the their estimated useful lives as follows: Borrowings are stated initially at the consideration Syndicate have been regarded as groups of received net of transaction costs incurred.
business that are managed together.
Leasehold land and buildings over period of lease Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any Although the unpaid claims reserves are considered Motor vehicles 33% per annum difference between amortised cost and the to be reasonable, having regard to previous claims redemption value is recognised in the income experience including the use of certain statistically Computer equipment 33% per annum statement over the period of the borrowings.
based projections and case by case reviews of Transaction costs on borrowings are charged notified claims, on the basis of information available Furniture, fixtures and through the income statement over the period of the at the date of determining the provision, the ultimate leasehold improvements 20% per annum borrowings.
liabilities will vary as a result of subsequent information and events.
This uncertainty is The carrying values of property and equipment are Borrowing costs discussed further in the risk disclosures in Note 3. reviewed for impairment when events or changes in Borrowing costs comprise interest payable on loans circumstance indicate that the carrying value may and bank overdrafts and commissions charged for Net investment income be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are Dividends and any related tax credits are recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in charged to the income statement as financing costs, recognised as income on the date that the related order to determine the extent of impairment and the as incurred.
In addition fees paid for the arrangement listed investments are marked ex-dividend.
Other difference is charged to the income statement.
of debt and letter of credit facilities are charged to investment income, interest receivable, expenses borrowing costs over the life of the facility.
