Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 1.
Summary of significant At the date of authorisation of these financial Foreign currency translation accounting policies statements a number of standards and The Group presents its accounts in sterling since it The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation interpretations had been published but were not is subject to regulation in the United Kingdom and and significant accounting policies adopted in the yet effective.
These include: the net assets, liabilities and income of the Group preparation of Amlin plcs the Groups financial are currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar statements are set out below.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments: revenue is significant but the sterling revenue IFRIC 11, IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share stream is also currently material.
All group entities Basis of preparation Transactions: are incorporated in the United Kingdom with the These consolidated financial statements are IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements: exception of Amlin Bermuda Holdings Ltd and prepared in accordance with International Financial and Amlin Bermuda Ltd which are incorporated in Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the IFRIC 14, IAS 19: The Limit of Defined Benefit Bermuda and Amlin Singapore Pte Limited which European Union EU.
The financial statements Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their is incorporated in Singapore.
All Group entities comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
conduct business in a range of economic environments, primarily the United Kingdom, United The financial statements have been prepared on The directors anticipate that the adoption of these States of America and Europe.
Due to the regulatory the historical cost basis except for cash and cash standards and interpretations will have no material environment and the fact that the Group trades equivalents, financial investments, loans and impact on the financial statements except for through the Lloyds market, all Group companies receivables, share options and pension assets and additional disclosures.
incorporated in the United Kingdom have adopted liabilities which are measured at their fair value.
sterling as their functional currency.
The Group In accordance with IFRS 4, the Group has applied companies incorporated in Bermuda have adopted The accounting policies adopted in preparing these existing accounting practices for insurance the US dollar as their functional currency.
The Group financial statements are consistent with those contracts, modified as appropriate, to comply with company incorporated in Singapore has adopted followed in the preparation of the Groups annual the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
the Singapore dollar as its functional currency.
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Critical accounting judgements and key Where sterling is the functional currency, income sources of estimation uncertainty and expenditure in US dollars, Euros and Canadian Basis of consolidation The preparation of financial statements requires the dollars is translated at average rates of exchange for The financial statements consolidate the accounts use of estimates and assumptions that affect the the period.
Transactions denominated in other of the Company and subsidiary undertakings, reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the foreign currencies are translated using the including the Groups underwriting through disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the participation on Lloyds syndicates.
Subsidiaries Although these estimates are based on transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are are those entities in which the Group, directly or managements best knowledge of current events translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at indirectly, has the power to govern the operating and actions, actual results may ultimately differ from the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and and financial policies in order to gain economic those estimates.
liabilities are translated at the average rate prevailing benefits and includes the Groups Employee Benefit in the period in which the asset or liability first arose.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are Insurance contract liabilities prepared for the same reporting year as the parent The most significant estimate made in the financial Exchange differences arising from the conversion of company.
Consolidation adjustments are made to statements relates to the insurance unpaid claim overseas operations are accounted for through convert subsidiary accounts prepared under UK reserves and related loss adjustment expenses of reserves.
GAAP into IFRS so as to remove the effects of any the Group.
different accounting policies that may exist.
Where contracts to sell currency have been entered Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that The estimated provision for ultimate incurred losses into prior to the year end, the contracted rates have control is transferred to the Group and cease to be changes as more information becomes known been used.
Differences arising on the translation of consolidated from the date that control is transferred about the actual losses for which the initial foreign currency amounts on such items are out.
All inter-company balances, profits and provisions were set up.
The change in claims costs included in other operating expenses.
for prior period insurance claims represents the claims development of earlier reported years Insurance contracts premium Details of material subsidiaries included within the incurred in the current accounting period.
In 2007 Gross premium written comprise premium on consolidated financial statements can be found in there has been a net positive development of insurance contracts incepting during the financial note 40 to the parent company accounts.
109.0 million 2006: 68.9 million for the Group, year.
The estimated premium income in respect of reflecting the favourable experience in the 2006 and facility contracts is deemed to be written in full at the Changes to International Financial prior reported years.
Note 3 provides further detail inception of the contract.
Premium is disclosed Reporting Standards of the method the Group applies in estimating before the deduction of brokerage and taxes or In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7, insurance contract liabilities.
Estimates are included for Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related premium receivable after the period end but not yet amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Financial investments notified, as well as adjustments made in the year to Statements, and IFRS 4, Accounting for Insurance The methods and assumptions used by the Group premium written in prior accounting periods.
Contracts which are effective for annual reporting in estimating the fair value of financial assets are periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Premium is earned over the policy contract period.
impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes The earned element is calculated separately for to IAS 1 and IFRS 4 have been to expand the Deferred tax each contract on a 365ths basis.
For premium disclosures provided in the financial statements The estimates of deferred tax assets and tax written under facilities, such as under binding regarding the Groups management of capital and liabilities have been adjusted in the current period to authorities, the earned element is calculated based financial instruments see notes 2 and 3. reflect the reduction in the UK Corporate tax rate to on the estimated risk profile of the individual 28% on 1 April 2008.
Three Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Staff incentive plans The proportion of premium written, gross of IFRIC are effective for the current period.
These The Group recognises a liability and expense for staff commission payable, attributable to periods after are: IFRIC 8, which clarifies IFRS 2, Share-based incentive plans based on a formula that takes into the balance sheet date is deferred as a provision for Payments: IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded consideration the underwriting year profit after certain unearned premium.
The change in this provision is Derivatives: and IFRIC 10, Interim Financial adjustments.
Underwriting year profit is estimated taken to the income statement in order that revenue Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these based on current expectation of premiums and is recognised over the period of the risk.
Interpretations has not led to any changes in the claims and will change as more information is known.
Where estimates change related staff incentive plan liabilities may also change.
