Glossary of Terms Accident year IBNR Return on equity ROE The calendar or accounting year in which a loss occurs.
An estimate of claims or losses which have been incurred After tax profit divided by opening shareholders equity, but not yet reported to the insurer.
adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
Actuarial best estimate The result projected from a statistical model in which the IFRS Risk-based capital intention is to be neither prudent nor optimistic.
Actuarial International Financial Reporting Standards.
Risk-based capital is a method used to measure the best estimate reserves should be enough to pay the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company Incurred loss expected average future liabilities but include no margin for needs to support its overall business operations taking into Paid claims plus claims advised by a policyholder but not the emergence of worse than expected experience.
account the size and type of risk taken by the insurer.
AIR RMS Incurred loss ratio Service providing up-to-date information and loss estimates Risk Management Solutions.
Provider of catastrophic Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
for major natural catastrophes worldwide.
Lead non-lead Binders Binding authority Run-off Lead denotes an underwriter in the subscription market An authority granted by an active underwriter to an Increase or decrease to claims on old years of account.
who sets the terms and price of a policy.
Following intermediary whereby that intermediary is entitled to accept, underwriters accept the policy on the same terms.
Service company within certain limits, insurance business on behalf of members.
A company set up to operate a binding authority on behalf Letter of credit LOC Box at Lloyds om non-Lloyds brokers of the Syndicate to write business fr Written undertaking by a financial institution to provide Accommodation in the underwriting room at Lloyds from or policyholders directly.
which business may be transacted with Lloyds brokers.
Sidecars Line size Capacity Specialty reinsurance companies designed to provide The monetary limit of a policy for a first claim accepted by an The maximum amount of business which may be accepted additional capital to a specific reinsurance company.
Investors, such as hedge funds, invest in a reinsurance company, the sidecar, to reinsure specific risks for a specific Line slip Catastrophe bonds reinsurance company.
A facility operated by a Lloyds broker whereby risks can be Risk-based securities that pay high interest rates and bound to a panel of insurers through the agreement of a provide insurance companies with a form of reinsurance to Special purpose vehicle leading underwriter plus one or two following markets as pay losses from a catastrophe.
They allow insurance risk to Corporate entity designed to isolate financial risk, often to specified on the slip at placement.
be sold to institutional investors in the form of bonds, thus allow other investors to participate in that risk.
Other financial instruments used to Loss ratio Specie transfer catastrophe risk to capital markets include See incurred loss ratio and ultimate loss ratio.
The insurance of high value items including deposits, catastrophe swaps and industry loss warrants.
Non-life CDOs General insurance companies which sell policies other than Subordinated debt Collateralised debt obligations.
Entities owning cash life insurance, annuities or pension products.
Subordinated debt is debt that takes a lower priority than other generating assets, which sell the rights to the cash flows debt.
If an issuer is liquidated then subordinated debt holders Non-monetary assets & liabilities from those assets along with associated risks.
will only be paid after senior creditors have been fully paid.
Assets and liabilities that are accounting entries and are not Cede expected to be exchanged for cash - such as unearned Sub-prime To transfer risk from a direct insurer to his reinsurers.
Mortgages provided to home buyers with lower credit Claims ratio scores.
Nearly all sub-prime loans in the US are packaged Outstanding claims into mortgage backed securities for sale to investors.
Net claims plus claims expenses divided by net earned premium.
Losses which have been reported to the insurer but not yet paid.
Combined ratio Subscription market Package Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby underwriters See commercial combined.
subscribe to proportions of risks.
Commercial combined Personal lines Also known as Package.
Policies where several different Surplus Property casualty insurance products that are designed for types of insurance cover are combined into one policy.
The amount by which the gross sum insured accepted by and bought by individuals, including homeowners and the insurance company exceeds its own retention.
Contingent capital Contingent capital arrangements provide the option to Surplus lines Proportional reinsurance raise capital during a defined commitment period based A reinsurance where the surplus of the reinsureds retention A type of reinsurance where the ceding insurer cedes to its upon the occurrence of a qualifying event, such as a is ceded up to an agreed amount.
Once accepted, both reinsurer a predetermined proportion of the premium and defined insurance loss.
parties pay their proportion of losses arising.
liability of those policies subject to the reinsurance agreement.
DFA Total shareholder returns Quota share Dynamic financial analysis uses a detailed modelling Returns combining share price performance and dividend A form of proportional reinsurance where the reinsurer assessment of the key risks facing an insurer to help assess payments.
receives a percentage of every risk, as defined by the its financial position.
Key areas of use include the assessment reinsurance contracts, written by the ceding company.
Treaty of capital requirements and understanding the possible A reinsurance contract covering entire portfolios of risks.
Rating agency impact of future plans and strategies.
Credit agencies which determine insurers financial strength Ultimate loss ratio ULR Direct and facultative and company debt ratings.
Total forecast claims divided by total forecast premium Direct property insurance and facultative reinsurance expected to arise from a policy or class of business.
Losses Realistic disaster scenario RDS of property.
include those paid, those notified and IBNR.
Modelling of the probable loss which may arise from a Earned premium defined catastrophic event.
Underwriting year Proportion of insurance premium recognised in the income The year to which a policy is allocated and to which all Reinsurance statement based on the estimated risk period falling in the premiums and claims in respect of that policy are attributed.
A reinsurer assumes part of financial year.
Allocation is determined by the inception date of the policy.
the risk and part of the premium originally taken by the ECF insurer, known as the primary company.
Unearned premium Electronic claims file.
Proportion of insurance premium covering periods after the Reinsurance to close Endorsement end of the financial year.
Held in the unearned premium Premium paid by a closing year of account to a later year to Any addition to a policy, or addition to the printed wording, reserve.
A reinsurance to close is which changes or varies terms of, or parties to, the contract.
usually made three years after the commencement of a year US admitted market of account.
Excess of loss reinsurance XL The market provided by insurers who are licensed to do A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss paid by the business in US States.
Reserves reinsured which is in excess of an agreed amount and then Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding claims XL pays up to the limit of the policy.
Expense ratio Retention ratio Year of account yoa Underwriting expenses divided by net earned premium.
The percentage of the previous years premium that is The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a policy is allocated renewed.
Facultative and to which all premiums and claims in respect of that Where the insurer accepts risks on an individual basis.
Allocation is determined by the Retrocession inception date of the policy.
The reinsurance of liability accepted by way of reinsurance.
Gross and net underwriting When referring to premium written or earned, losses or Return on capital ROCE underwriting results, these terms denote before gross and After tax profit divided by opening shareholders equity plus after net the application of reinsurance.
debt, adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
118 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Directors and advisers For the year ended 31 December 2007 Directors Registered Office Roger Taylor Chairman St Helens Nigel Buchanan 1 Undershaft Brian Carpenter London Richard Davey EC3A 8ND Marty Feinstein Richard Hextall Finance Director Auditors Tony Holt Deloitte & Touche LLP Roger Joslin London Ramanam Mylvaganam Charles Philipps Chief Executive Investment Bankers Sir Mark Wrightson Bt Lexicon Partners Limited No 1 Paternoster Square Senior independent non-executive London EC4M 7DX non-executive Stockbrokers Audit Committee Hoare Govett Limited Nigel Buchanan Chairman 250 Bishopsgate Richard Davey London EC2M 4AA Roger Joslin Ramanam Mylvaganam Corporate Lawyers Linklaters LLP Remuneration Committee One Silk Street Ramanam Mylvaganam Chairman London EC2Y 7HQ Nigel Buchanan Sir Mark Wrightson Bt Principal Bankers Lloyds TSB Bank PLC Nomination Committee 25 Gresham Street Roger Taylor Chairman London EC2V 7MN Nigel Buchanan Roger Joslin Registrar Ramanam Mylvaganam Computershare Investor Services PLC Charles Philipps PO Box 82 The Pavilions Secretary Bridgwater Road Charles Pender FCIS FSI Bristol BS99 7NH Amlin plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND T 020 7746 1000 F 020 7746 1696 www.
