Performance For Amlin Bermuda, minimum capital requirements be purchased.
The Group is also exposed to A. Non-marine risks are dictated by the rules laid down by the Bermuda catastrophe losses which may impact many risks in A. i Non-marine property risks Monetary Authority BMA.
Amlin Bermuda is a single event and again reinsurance is purchased classified as a Class IV insurer for which the to limit the impact of loss aggregation from such Non-marine property risks minimum solvency margin is the greater of $100m, events.
These reinsurance arrangements are 2007 50% of net premiums written in the current financial described in the reinsurance arrangements year subject to a 25% cap on reinsurance section below.
O A B C fide N F expenditure and 15% of claims reserves.
In the G case of Amlin Bermuda at 31 December 2007, the Insurance liabilities are written through individual M premium test is currently the largest of the three risk acceptances, reinsurance treaties or through L K criteria at $232.8 million, although the entity is in the facilities whereby Amlin is bound by other J early years of operation.
In addition, as a Class IV underwriting entities.
Facility arrangements I insurer, Amlin Bermuda is required to maintain a delegate underwriting authority to other minimum liquidity ratio such that the value of underwriters, or to agents acting as coverholders, relevant assets is not less than 75% of its relevant that use their judgement to write risks on our behalf liabilities.
Amlin Bermuda met this requirement at under clear authority levels.
For wider commercial reasons we believe that it is necessary to hold at least The insurance liabilities underwritten by the Group A Caribbean 3% B Central & Eastern Europe 1% $1 billion of capital for Amlin Bermuda, which is are reviewed on an individual risk, or contract, basis C Central & Southern Africa 1% currently far in excess of the required minimum.
and through review of portfolio performance.
All D Central America 1% claims arising are reserved upon notification.
Each E Central Asia 1% F East Asia 5% The method by which the Group actively manages quarter the entire portfolio of business is subject to G Middle East 1% its capital base is described on page 30 of the a reserving process whereby levels of paid and H North America 63% I Northern Africa 1% Review section under Financial Management.
outstanding advised but not paid claims are J Oceania 3% reviewed.
Potential future claims are assessed with K South America 1% In addition to regulatory capital requirements we a provision for incurred but not reported IBNR L South Asia 1% M UK 9% believe we should retain a level of capital within the claims being made.
This provision is subject to N Western Europe excluding UK 8% Group which allows it to grow exposures materially review by senior executives and an independent O Worldwide Other 3% in the aftermath of a major insurance disaster.
The internal actuarial assessment is carried out by the capital held by Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda, in-house actuarial team to determine the adequacy is driven by the business mix, nature and objectives of the provision.
Whilst a detailed and disciplined Non-marine property classes of each entity and its context within the wider Amlin exercise is carried out to provide for claims notified, 2007 Current 2007 Gross maximum Average Group.
it is possible that known claims could develop and premium line size line size exceed the reserves carried.
Risk disclosures increased uncertainty in establishing an accurate Catastrophe reinsurance 158 50 4.0 3.1 Insurance risk provision for IBNR claims and there is a possibility per programme The Group accepts insurance risk in a range of that claims may arise which in aggregate exceed Per risk property reinsurance 43 20 1.7 classes of business through Lloyds Syndicate the reserve provision established.
This is partly per programme 2001s four distinct underwriting businesses and mitigated by the reserving policy adopted by the Proportional reinsurance 24 5 0.7 Amlin Bermuda.
The bias of the portfolio is towards Group which is to carry reserves with a margin in Direct and facultative short-tail property and accident risk but liability excess of the in-house actuarial best estimate.
property 68 20 2.4 coverage is also underwritten.
Binding authorities 20 2 0.3 The review of claims arising may result in In underwriting insurance or reinsurance policies the underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for an Notes: Groups underwriters use their skill, knowledge and unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices or 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate data on past claims experience to evaluate the likely payments.
However, this may not be possible in a of exchange changes may increase or reduce the claims cost and therefore the premium that should competitive market and underwriters may respond sterling limits.
be sufficient across a portfolio of risks to cover either by accepting business with lower expected 2 Maximum line size is after business written and claims costs, expenses and to produce an profit margins or declining to renew policies and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin acceptable profit.
However due to the nature of thus reducing income.
Also, there is a portfolio of Bermuda Ltd. insurance risk there is no guarantee that the risk already underwritten which cannot be re-priced 3 Premium are stated net of acquisition costs.
premium charged will be sufficient to cover claims until renewal at the end of the policy period.
This shortfall may originate either from Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance insufficient premium being calculated and charged Sections A to D below describe the business and companies against catastrophic losses, such as or result from an unexpected, or unprecedented, the risks of Amlins Syndicate operations.
Amlin windstorm or earthquake, which may impact more high level of claims.
Bermuda is described in section E. than one risk written by the company.
This portfolio is a key part of the insurance risk written by the A number of controls are deployed to limit the Group.
Programmes are placed on a layered or amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
Each excess of loss basis.
Territorial exposures, from a year a business plan is prepared and agreed which number of programmes, are much higher, but are is used to monitor the amount of premium income, carefully recorded and analysed through loss and exposure, to be written in total and for each simulations or realistic disaster scenarios.
Progress against this plan is monitored during the year.
The Group also operates Per risk property reinsurance is also written on an under a line guide which determines the maximum excess of loss basis but covers loss or damage to liability per policy which can be written for each a single risk within the reinsureds portfolio.
class and for each underwriter.
These can be Proportional reinsurance covers a proportional exceeded in exceptional circumstances but only share of a reinsureds portfolio of business subject to with the approval of senior management.
Apart payment of commission and or profit commission.
from the UK, and some of the international, Almost all proportional reinsurance written by the comprehensive motor liability portfolio, which has Group in this class is property business and risk unlimited liability, all policies have a per loss limit exposure is limited to $7.5 million any one risk.
which caps the size of any individual claims.
For larger sum insured risks reinsurance coverage may Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 51 Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 Direct and facultative property insurance is written order to remain within the risk appetite guidelines.
Non-marine miscellaneous for the full value of the risk, on a primary or excess of However, there may be some period of delay before 2007 loss basis, through individual placements, or by way this can be achieved.
of delegated underwriting facilities given to fide A B C O F coverholders binding authorities.
Binding The property portfolio is also exposed to an above G authority arrangements delegate the day to day average frequency of individual fire, explosion or N underwriting to underwriting agents working on our weather related claims.
The premium charged for behalf.
For these contracts, we are reliant on a the coverage given may not be sufficient to cover all coverholder exercising underwriting judgement on claims made in any year, particularly in a year in our behalf.
Coverholders have to have local which there is an abnormal frequency of claims.
regulatory approval, be Lloyds registered and also H M approved by the Amlin Binding Authority A. ii US casualty risk L Committee.
For all binding authority facilities we The US casualty portfolio of business provides K J I receive a monthly or quarterly bordereau which is insurance and reinsurance cover to individuals or checked by our underwriting staff.
We control the companies in order to indemnify against legal A Caribbean 3% underwriting by setting clear authority levels for liability arising from their activities and actions or for B Central & Eastern Europe 1% C Central & Southern Africa 1% coverholders stipulated within the binding authority incidents occurring on their property.
The account is D Central America 1% agreement, regularly monitoring performance and currently written to a maximum liability of $6 million E Central Asia 1% F East Asia 3% periodically carrying out underwriting visits and or on any one claim but average lines are $0.6 million G Middle East 2% commissioning third party audits.
The coverholder on any one claim.
H North America 44% I Northern Africa 1% is incentivised to produce an underwriting profit J Oceania 2% through the payments of profit commission.
The portfolio is made up of specialist general K South America 1% L However, with the day to day underwriting not casualty, professional indemnity, medical South Asia 1% M UK 23% controlled by Amlin, there is a risk that coverholder malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
Small N Western Europe excluding UK 10% underwriting or claim decisions are made which amounts of directors and officers liability and auto O Worldwide Other 11% would not have been made by Amlin underwriters liability are also written.
The class is mostly written or claims staff.
The maximum value insured under on a claims notified basis responding to all claims Other non-marine classes binding authorities is currently limited to $4 million made during a defined period except for small 2007 Current 2007 at any one location.
amounts of general liability business which may Gross maximum Average be written on a losses occurring basis the policy premium line size line size Property cover is provided to large commercial responds to losses which occur during the period m m m enterprises with high value locations and or many even if reported after the policy has expired.
Accident & health 15 2 1.0 locations and also for small commercial property.
Credit insurance 10 15 15.0 The perils covered include fire, flood, wind and Claims from this class emanate from professional Auto 28 4 0.2 earthquake damage.
Business interruption cover is error, negligence or an accident which causes injury, Aviation reinsurance also provided for loss of earnings sustained due to damage or financial loss.
The account is vulnerable per programme 3 27 5.2 Marine reinsurance the perils and properties covered but may also be to a high frequency of claims but not individual large per programme 15 67 1.7 extended to connected enterprises.
Terrorism cover losses as the cost to Amlin of any individual claim is US Casualty 21 3 0.3 is given on a limited basis particularly where small.
Claims frequency to the direct and Special risks 13 20 4.0 required by local regulation, but nuclear and bioreinsurance portfolio may be impacted by a generic chemical coverage is excluded in most territories.
claim type which impacts many individual policies Notes: such as poor housing design or bad medical 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at The portfolio of property insurance and reinsurance practice.
The size of individual claims is subject to a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate business is written with the aim of achieving territorial decisions arising from the US court system which of exchange changes may increase or reduce the diversification.
However, a severe catastrophe to a can be higher than anticipated.
There is also the sterling limits.
major economic zone in Europe, Japan or the USA potential for US courts to impose a bad faith 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin is likely to result in an overall loss to the property judgement on insurers if it is deemed that the insurer Bermuda Ltd. portfolio prior to reinsurance.
The Group is exposed has acted improperly in trying to avoid contractual 3 Premium are stated net of acquisition costs.
to the impact of large catastrophe events such as obligations.
Such awards can, in exceptional windstorms, earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
circumstances, be much higher than the value of Credit insurance is written for UK and Irish Exposure to such events is controlled and measured the insurance claim.
companies only and the coverage is provided to through loss modelling but the accuracy of this protect against insolvency of debtors in the normal exposure analysis is limited by the quality of data and A. iii Other non-marine classes course of trading.
The principal risk is from a very the effectiveness of the modelling.
The Groups broad The Group also writes other non-marine classes large corporate collapse which may impact many of risk appetite guidelines are set out on page 24.
It is which contribute diversified exposure to the our assureds or a serious economic downturn possible that a catastrophe event exceeds the portfolio.
The main classes with the maximum sum which impacts many sectors and companies.
This is particularly insured lines together with the geographical spread the case for the direct property proportion of the are shown in the tables following.
The auto class covers property damage only fire, loss exposure where models are used to calculate a The accident and health class is written through theft and collision in the US and property damage damage factor representing the amount of damage medical expense schemes in the US and direct and third party motor liability combined cover in other expected to exposed aggregate insured values.
personal accident cover or personal accident international territories.
This class could be impacted Errors or incorrect assumptions in the damage factor reinsurance worldwide.
Medical expense cover is by unexpected claim frequency, a multi vehicle event calculation can result in incurred catastrophe event subject to a high frequency of claim and significant such as a severe flood, and also large bodily injury claims higher or lower than predicted due to medical cost inflation.
Personal accident insurance award claims emanating from an accident.
unforeseen circumstances or inadequacies in the and reinsurance could be impacted by a single or models used.
As explained below in the reinsurance series of accidents to high value insured individuals The special risks account includes small premium arrangements section, the Syndicate buys a or from a multiple death and injury event such as an classes such as nuclear, contingency business and reinsurance programme to protect against the air crash or natural catastrophe.
terrorism reinsurance which is written in all parts of impact of, or series of, severe catastrophes.
Because of the small premium and However, the price and availability of such cover is The division writes a portfolio of aviation and marine specialist nature of these classes they are generally variable and the amount of loss retained by the Group reinsurance business which protects insurers written without reinsurance protection.
may therefore also increase or reduce.
The Group will against losses to their direct portfolios of business.
alter its insurance and reinsurance exposures to take This is written on an excess of loss basis.
account of the change in reinsurance availability in 52 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Performance B. UK Commercial risks companies providing financial services.
The current C. Marine risks maximum line is 6 million.
Approximately 54% of The Group writes a broad account of marine risks UK Commercial the income is from Western Europe financial with maximum lines set out below: 2007 institutions with the balance spread broadly by Marine ABCDEF territory.
Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
J K G 2007 H The expected claims costs from these lines of AB C D O E business may be impacted by larger than F G anticipated damage awards to injured parties as well as due to an unforeseen increase in generic N claims such as industrial disease or other health hazards.
It is also possible that many claims could arise under many policies from a common cause H such as financial advice or generic building defect.
The financial institutions account could be affected I by a major fraud or a series of related liability claims I M J A Caribbean 1% K L arising from banking, investment activity, B Central & Eastern Europe 1% C Central & Southern Africa 1% stockbroking or other practices.
A Caribbean 1% D Central Asia 1% B Central & Eastern Europe 1% E East Asia 1% B. ii UK motor risks 2% F Middle East 1% C Central & Southern Africa D Central America 1% G North America 5% The Groups motor insurance risk written in the UK H Oceania E Central Asia 1% 1% commercial division is 99% UK which covers fire, 6% I UK 89% F East Asia G Middle East 2% J Western Europe excluding UK 5% theft, collision and third party property and bodily K Worldwide Other 1% H North America 29% injury liability.
Under the requirements of UK law, I 1% Northern Africa J Oceania 3% third party liability coverage is unlimited, but K South America 1% B. i Non-US liability risks matching reinsurance is purchased.
The account is L South Asia 1% biased towards commercial clients such as coach M UK 25% N Western Europe excluding UK 18% Liability classes operators, haulage companies, commercial vehicle O Worldwide Other 11% 2007 Current 2007 fleets and company executive fleets.
The syndicate Gross maximum Average leads two facilities for fleets involved in the premium line size line size transportation of hazardous waste.
There is also a Marine classes m m m UK agriculture and a specialist private car 2007 Current 2007 Employers liability 15 27 10.0 Gross maximum Average account written.
Public products liability 8 12 2.0 premium line size line size Professional indemnity 20 6 1.3 m m m Claims frequency has improved in recent years due UK commercial package 10 27 1.0 Hull 12 10 1.0 to car and road safety measures but can fluctuate Financial institutions fidelity Cargo 22 17 2.6 due to factors such as weather conditions.
UK and liability 4 6 0.9 Energy 35 20 2.5 inflation is a key factor in determining the size of War and terrorism 18 17 7.3 motor claims.
Car values affect the size of theft The Group writes three classes of non-US liability.
Specie 7 34 6.3 claims and for physical damage claims size is linked 89% of the business emanates from the UK with the Bloodstock 17 4 0.5 to repair costs.
Inflationary pressure on court balance mainly from Ireland and Canada.
Yacht hull and liability 20 4 0.9 awards within the UK and Irish legal systems Liability 16 57 3.6 impacts liability claim values.
Government Employers liability EL protecting employers intervention such as liability award limit changes Notes: against accident or injury to employees.
This is or expense recoveries for government bodies, 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of written on a losses occurring basis covering events exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency including the National Health Service will also that occurred in the policy period even if they are not rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce impact claim size.
For the motor account severe notified until after expiry for limits up to 27 million the sterling limits.
bodily injury and catastrophe damage claims per employer.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and e. g. UK flood are limited through the purchase of a ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin reinsurance programme, the highest layer of which Bermuda Ltd. Public liability PL this coverage, often written in is unlimited.
3 Premium are stated net of acquisition costs.
conjunction with employers liability covers accident or injury occurring to clients, customers or another Motor insurance is a highly competitive area of The hull and cargo account is worldwide, covering third party as a result of contact with the insureds insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
Whilst property damage to ships and loss, or damage to a personnel, property or products.
This is written on underwriters accept business subject to sufficient large variety of cargo or goods in transit.
The hull a losses occurring basis currently for limits up to rates per vehicle, in a year where there is an account can include machinery breakdown and 12 million per assured.
unexpectedly high level of claims the total premium the account written by Amlin is generally targeted may not be sufficient to cover all the claims.
There is towards smaller brownwater vessels and fishing Professional indemnity this covers liability which also a risk that legal changes impact bodily injury boats.
These accounts can be impacted by may arise from services provided by the assured, for payments and result in a requirement to increase attritional claims of a small size as well as a single example as a result of negligence or error, which reserves for outstanding claims.
The cargo account in may lead to financial or physical loss.
This includes particular could also be involved in a major natural but is not limited to services from architects, catastrophe loss.
engineers, surveyors, advertising firms, medical professionals and financial advisors and is written The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig and on a claims made basis covering losses notified in construction policies which may be impacted by the policy period.
large individual claims but is also exposed to severe catastrophe losses in the North Sea and Gulf of UK commercial package policies combine one or Mexico.
The account includes control of well to limit more of the liability coverages mainly EL and PL with loss of oil and avoid pollution and also some motor and or property damage protection.
business interruption cover which indemnifies companies for loss of production.
The Group also writes a small account of financial institutions policies covering fidelity, professional indemnity and directors and officers liability for Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 53 Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 War business includes aviation, marine and on E. Amlin Bermuda Aviation land terrorism coverage and is exposed to single Amlin Bermuda was formed in December 2005 to 2007 incidents or a series of losses arising from directly write a short tail portfolio of reinsurance concerted action.
A small amount of political risk, business and to reinsure part of the Syndicate 2001 OA B C D E confiscation and contract frustration is written.
The direct written portfolio consists of the F following classes with maximum line sizes and split G Specie business consists of the insurance against by territory.
damage or theft to fine art, the contents of vaults Amlin Bermuda and other high value goods including jewellers 2007 block and cash in transit.
The fine art may be shown M at exhibitions which have very high aggregate CDE O A B N values at risk.
The class is therefore exposed to the L H F K J I G potential for a frequency of small claims and also M large individual losses.
Some specie is written in L catastrophe zones e. g. California.
K A Caribbean 1% J B Central & Eastern Europe 3% I C Central & Southern Africa 2% The bloodstock account protects for death, illness D Central America 1% or injury to horses mainly in the UK but business E Central Asia 1% F East Asia 7% from the USA, Australia and South Africa is also G Middle East 2% written.
This covers racing and eventing horses or H North America 44% H I Northern Africa 1% breeding studs.
The average value insured is below J Oceania 1% 1 million but there is the potential for an aggregate K South America 1% A Caribbean 4% loss such as a stable fire which could cause multiple L South Asia 1% B Central & Eastern Europe 1% M UK 18% claims.
C Central & Southern Africa 1% N Western Europe excluding UK 19% D Central America 1% O Worldwide Other 1% E Central Asia 1% Yacht business covers property damage and third F East Asia 5% G Middle East 1% party injury for small leisure boats and craft.
The Aviation classes H North America 63% bulk of the account is smaller value yachts in the UK 2007 Current 2007 I Northern Africa 1% J Oceania 4% and Europe and there is an expectation of a large Gross maximum Average K South America 1% number of small claims.
Third party liability yacht premium line size line size L South Asia 1% m m m claims arise from injury or damage caused by one of M UK 12% Airline hull & liability 15 84 19.3 N Western Europe excluding UK 9% our policyholders.
There is also the potential for a O Worldwide Other 1% General aviation hull & liability 5 57 15.4 large catastrophe loss such as a UK windstorm Risk excess hull & liability 6 57 11.1 where there are large aggregate sums insured in Airports liability 12 57 21.9 2007 Current 2007 coastal regions such as southern England.
Products 8 50 14.7 Gross maximum Average Space hull & liability 5 46 7.7 premium line size line size The marine liability portfolio is written to protect $m $m $m ship-owners, harbours, charterers and energy Notes: Direct written business companies against damage or injury to third parties.
1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of Catastrophe reinsurance This includes the potential for pollution claims.
The 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of per programme 150.1 75.0 6.0 exchange changes may increase or reduce the account could suffer a large catastrophe incident Proportional reinsurance 38.5 7.5 1.4 sterling limits.
from a collision causing death of crew and Per risk property reinsurance 2 Maximum line size is after business written and passengers or an oil or chemical spill which could per programme 34.3 12.5 2.8 ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin require large clean up costs.
Special risks 10.5 15.0 6.6 Bermuda Ltd. Marine reinsurance 4.2 20.0 10.1 3 Premium are stated net of acquisition costs.
D. Aviation risks Aviation reinsurance 1.6 20.0 3.8 The Group underwrites a direct and facultative Airport liability insurance covers airport operators, Accident & health 1.0 7.5 4.1 reinsurance account domiciled in most parts of the refuellers and air traffic controllers against losses Casualty 0.3 5.0 2.1 world.
The portfolio is made up of the following arising from injury caused by their activities or Amlin Bermudas direct business has strong classes with maximum lines and split by territory.
Product liability covers similarities to the reinsurance portfolio of the manufacturers against accidents arising from faulty Non-marine division of Syndicate 2001.
A large The airline account is exposed to large claims parts or equipment, or poor servicing of aircraft.
proportion of the business written emanates from arising from property damage, death or injury arising Both airport and product liability coverage is written London broker markets and is frequently seasoned from aircraft accident.
The domicile of the airline and on a losses occurring basis meaning that claims business already underwritten by Syndicate 2001. passengers has a notable influence on the cost of advices can be made after the policy has expired.
Risk tolerance is provided by a whole account claims as US court awards are generally higher.
Space insurance covers property and liability during quota share of Syndicate 2001.
This is further launch and the operation of satellites whilst in orbit supplemented by a number of specific variable The general aviation book covers smaller aircraft or for a limited period of normally one year.
quota share treaties on short tail classes such as cargo and covers owner or operators against loss property and energy.
These are utilised by or damage and third party injury.
The aviation account is subject to both small and Syndicate 2001 underwriters on an individual risk large claims.
Claims involving loss of life or serious basis when deemed appropriate.
The risk excess account is a book of general injury to high earning passengers or third parties are aviation reinsurance business written to protect a subject to the ongoing inflation of court awards Property reinsurance is written through treaty small number of insurers.
Large accidents involving the arrangements on a proportional, individual risk potential death of 500 or so passengers are feasible excess of loss, or catastrophe excess of loss basis.
and could potentially result in a gross claim to the The catastrophe reinsurance portfolio is the largest division of more than $175 million before class of insurance risk written by Amlin Bermuda.
reinsurance if, for example, two large aircraft were to Exposures to each programme are currently limited collide.
Space losses are generally large single claim to $12.5 million per risk and $75 million any one amounts caused by launch failure or operational catastrophe programme, with maximum event limits failure in orbit.
of $300 million any one zone and $350 million probable maximum loss for losses affecting more than one zone.
54 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Catastrophe event exposures per territory are individual risk losses such as fire or large energy The risk appetite policy recognises that there may carefully recorded and analysed through loss losses and these programmes may be combined be circumstances in which the net event limit could simulations or realistic disaster scenarios.
Amlin at a higher level into a general programme for be exceeded.
Such circumstances include non Bermuda is exposed to the impact of large larger losses.
renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance catastrophe events such as windstorms, protection, reinsurance security failure, or regulatory earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure to such The combined claims to the Syndicate from several and legal requirements.
events is controlled and measured through loss losses which aggregate in a single catastrophe event modelling but the accuracy of this exposure analysis are protected by catastrophe cover.
A separate A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is is limited by the quality of data and the effectiveness excess of loss on excess of loss programme may be carried out every quarter and measured against risk of the modelling.
The Groups broad risk appetite purchased to protect the excess of loss reinsurance appetite.
The following assumptions and guidelines are set out on page 24.
It is possible that portfolio against such losses.
The Syndicate may procedures are used in the process: a catastrophe event exceeds the maximum also purchase multi-class umbrella protection which expected event loss.
This is particularly the case for responds to a catastrophe loss which could exceed The data used reflects the information supplied the direct property proportion of the loss exposure, any of the specific programmes bought for aviation, to the Group by insureds and ceding companies.
which Amlin Bermuda would receive through the property or excess of loss reinsurance losses.
This may prove to be inaccurate or could develop whole account and specific variable quota shares, However, since 2006, the amount of excess of loss during the policy period: where models are used to calculate a damage reinsurance purchased is lower and only responds The exposures are modelled using a mixture of factor representing the amount of damage to losses in excess of $50 million.
Also very little stochastic models and underwriter input to arrive expected to exposed aggregate insured values.
multi-class umbrella protection has been purchased at damage factors these factors are then Errors or incorrect assumptions in the damage for 2008. applied to the assumed aggregate exposure to factor calculation can result in an incurred produce gross loss estimates.
The damage catastrophe event higher than predicted due to There is no guarantee that reinsurance coverage will factors may prove to be inadequate: unforeseen circumstances.
A significant element of be available to meet all potential loss circumstances The reinsurance programme as purchased is the Amlin Bermuda book is catastrophe reinsurance as, for very severe catastrophe losses, it is possible applied a provision for reinsurer counterparty relating to US windstorm.
However, a severe that the full extent of the cover bought is not failure is included but may prove to be inadequate: catastrophe to a major economic zone in Europe, sufficient.
Any loss amount which exceeds the Reinstatement premium both payable and Japan or the USA is likely to result in an overall loss programme would be retained by the Syndicate.
It is also possible that a dispute could arise with a reinsurer which reduces the recovery made.
The There is no guarantee that the assumptions and The accident and health class is written through reinsurance programme is bought to cover the techniques deployed in calculating these event loss medical expense schemes in the US and provides expected claims arising on the original portfolio.
Furthermore there personal accident reinsurance worldwide.
Personal However it is possible for there to be a mismatch or could also be an unmodelled loss which exceeds accident reinsurance could be impacted by a single a gap in cover which would result in a higher than these figures.
The likelihood of such a catastrophe or series of accidents to high value insured expected retained loss.
is considered to be remote but the most severe individuals or from a multiple death and injury event scenarios modelled are simulated events and these such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
Many parts of the programme also have limited simulations could prove to be unreliable.
reinstatements and therefore the number of claims The special risks account includes small premium which may be recovered from second or Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets classes mostly relating to terrorism reinsurance but subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible for Calculation of incurred but not reported also includes nuclear and contingency which is the programme to be exhausted by a series of IBNR and claims development written in all parts of the world.
losses in one annual period and it may not be Amlin adopts a consistent process in the calculation possible to purchase additional reinsurance at an of an adequate provision for insurance claim To date the Bermuda subsidiary has written risks acceptable price.
This would result in the Group liabilities.
The overriding aim is to establish reserves without the protection of a reinsurance programme bearing higher losses from further events occurring.
which are expected to be at least adequate and that and therefore it has higher net retained exposures It should also be noted that the renewal date of the there is consistency from year to year.
Therefore the to individual risk losses than the Syndicate reinsurance programmes does not necessarily level of reserves are set at a level above the currently bears.
correspond to that of the business written.
However, there is business is not protected by risk attaching a risk that, due to unforeseen circumstances, the Reinsurance arrangements reinsurance which provides coverage for the reserves carried are not sufficient to meet insurance The Syndicate purchases proportional reinsurance duration of the policies written this reinsurance claim liabilities reported in future years on policy to supplement line size and to reduce exposure on protection could expire resulting in an increase in periods which have expired.
A part of the premium ceded under possible loss retained by the Syndicate if renewal such facilities is placed with Amlin Bermuda and a of the programme is not achieved.
Reserving process and methodology separate proportional facility is placed for the US The reserving process commences with the proper catastrophe excess of loss portfolio.
The Syndicate Amlin Bermuda is presently not protected by any recording and reporting of claims information which also purchases a number of excess of loss reinsurance programme although the company may consists of paid and notified or outstanding claims.
reinsurances to protect itself from severe frequency decide to purchase reinsurance in the future.
For our London market business information is or size of losses.
The structure of the programme received through Xchanging the London market and type of protection bought will vary from year to Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis bureau and, in the case of our UK Commercial year depending on the availability and price of cover.
The Group has a defined event risk appetite which business, service companies and Amlin Bermuda, determines the maximum net loss that the Group directly from brokers and policyholders.
Claims On large risks individual facultative reinsurance intends to limit its exposure to major catastrophe records are maintained for each class by the may be bought which protects against a loss to a event scenarios.
Currently these are a maximum of underwriting year to which the policy incepts.
165 million for the Syndicate and $300 million any For notified or outstanding claims a case reserve one zone or $350 million for a multi-zonal loss for is established based on the views of underwriting Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is Amlin Bermuda.
management and claims managers, using external purchased for each class of business.
The amount legal or expert advice where appropriate.
This of cover bought depends upon the line size written These maximum losses are expected only to be reserve is expected to be sufficient to meet the for each class.
For instance, unlimited cover is incurred in extreme events with an estimated claim payment when it is finally determined.
bought for our UK motor portfolio where unlimited occurrence probability of less than 1 in 100 years For some classes of business, particularly liability third party cover is given on original policies.
The estimated for the natural peril or elemental losses.
business, settlement may be several years after the deductibles or amounts borne prior to recovery The Group also adopts risk appetite maximum net initial notification of the claim, as it may be subject to vary from class to class as do the amounts of limits for a number of other scenarios including complexities or court action.
Underwriters and co-reinsurance or unplaced protection.
Specific aviation collision 140 million and North Sea rig claims staff are responsible for setting case reserves programmes are purchased to deal with large loss 100 million.
For claims received from Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 55 Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 Xchanging, the market reserve is generally set by Property catastrophe claims such as earthquake or There are a large number of uncertainties and the lead underwriter but there are circumstances on hurricane losses can take several months, or years, difficulties in achieving accurate results from the larger claims where Amlin will post higher or lower to develop as adjusters visit damaged property and model.
Some of the key issues are: case reserves than those notified.
Until all the claims are settled it requires an analysis of the area damaged, The model is based on a best estimate view of To establish a provision for IBNR claims, the contracts exposed and the use of models to business volumes and rate expectations which underwriting and claims teams use their experience simulate the loss against the portfolio of exposure in may not be borne out in practice: and knowledge of the class of business to estimate order to arrive at an estimate of ultimate loss to the A significant change in the portfolio of business the potential future development of each class for Group.
There is uncertainty over the adequacy of could result in the past not being a reliable guide every underwriting year.
The development period information and modelling of major losses for a to the future: varies by class, by method of acceptance and is also period of several months after a catastrophe loss.
Changing external environmental factors may not determined by the deductible of each policy written.
Account should also be taken of factors which may be assessed accurately: For casualty business the policy form will determine influence the size of claims such as increased Model risk may be significant in such a complex whether claims can be made on a claims made as inflation or a change in law.
and developing discipline: advised or as a losses occurring determined by date Key assumptions over levels of correlation of loss basis.
This has a significant impact on the The long tail liability classes, for which a large IBNR between classes may over time prove to be reporting period in which claims can be notified.
In has to be established, represent the most difficult incorrect: setting the IBNR provision estimates are made for the classes to reserve because claims are notified and Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate the ultimate premium and ultimate gross claims value for settled several years after the expiry of the policy severity and frequency of large catastrophes on each underwriting year.
Allowance is then made for concerned.
This is particularly the case for US the portfolio, may be incorrect.
anticipated reinsurance recoveries to reach a net liability written on a losses occurring basis.
Reinsurance recoveries are calculated The result reproduced below represents the for outstanding and IBNR claims sometimes through The use of historical development data, adjusted for modelled loss sustained by the business from a the use of historical recovery rates and provisions are known changes to wordings or the claims single 1 in 200 bad year i. e. at the 0.5 percentile.
made as appropriate for bad debt or possible environment, is fundamental to reserving these This probability is the calculation benchmark disputes.
The component of ultimate IBNR provision classes.
It is used in conjunction with the advice of required by the FSA and Lloyds.
However, it does estimates and reinsurance recoveries that relates to lawyers and third party claims adjusters on material not represent the level of capital required for Amlin future events occurring to the existing portfolio is single claims.
to support current and expected business levels, removed in order to reflect GAAP accounting practice.
which should be considered over a longer period of The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance modelling.
Furthermore, Amlin is required to carry To assist with the process of determining the programme is an uncertain exercise as there is larger levels of capital which are sufficient in the reserves, triangulation statistics for each class are limited knowledge of the size or number of future eyes of rating agencies and clients.
This is modelling produced which show the historical development of claims advices.
The assumption over future for a single years outcome only.
premium, as well as paid and incurred losses, for reinsurance recoveries may be incorrect and each underwriting year, from inception to the date unforeseen disputes could arise which would All figures are based on business plan forecast and of review.
Each class triangulation is also reduce recoveries made.
assumptions consistent with the work for the October independently analysed by the internal actuarial 2007 ICA submission for the 2008 Year of Account team using actuarial software as appropriate.
The Dynamic financial analysis DFA modelling and thus include the previously projected year end aim of the actuarial exercise is to produce best of risk asset and liability position.
estimate ultimate premium and claims amounts To improve our risk management capability, and our which can be compared to the figures proposed by assessment of capital requirements, Amlin has Risk category after diversification divisional management.
Meetings are held in which developed a stochastic model to analyse the 2008 forecast executive management, actuarial staff and business potential performance of the underwriting m management discuss claims issues and analyse the businesses.
The output from the model includes a Underwriting new business risk 459 proposed and independently generated reserves to distribution of outcomes from reserves for prior Reserving 68 conclude the provision to be carried.
These written liabilities, investment performance, and new Credit reinsurance counterparty risk 15 provisions are also reviewed annually by external business underwriting performance.
The result is a Investment market risk 74 actuaries who examine the work carried out and combined view of the expected best estimate mean Liquidity risk 8 opine on the sufficiency of reserves.
result and the range of possibilities around it.
Discounting credit 90 Diversified result 386 For Amlin Bermuda, which only commenced The model requires the input of a large number of underwriting in 2005, historical statistics for the explicit parameters.
Those inputs are based on Notes: Syndicates relevant classes of business have been many different sources of information including Figures include an allowance for investment used as a guide for actuarial review.
detailed historical data on premium and claims, returns generated on assets backing insurance forecast income and exposures, estimated rating liabilities i. e. discounting.
The discounting credit Reserving areas of uncertainty levels and catastrophe loss data from proprietary shown represents the release from the balance sheet by discounting the mean best The reserves established can be more or less than models applied to Amlins portfolio.
adequate to meet eventual claims arising.
The level projection of an estimated mean ultimate loss ratio Investment income includes group corporate of uncertainty varies significantly from class to class and the distribution of results around it.
Investment risk after but can arise from inadequate case reserves for explicitly recognises diversification credit, since diversification remains positive since at around known large losses and catastrophes or from class results are not all strongly correlated and thus the 1 in 200 level total investment income on both inadequate provision for IBNR.
The impact on individual classes are unlikely to all produce losses surplus and technical assets exceeds the investment income implicitly assumed via profit before tax of a 1% variation in the total or profits in the same year.
Due to the inherent discounting on the technical assets alone.
net claims reserves would be 10.9 million uncertainty of predicting the key drivers of business Figures exclude: 2006: 11.0 million.
performance, including in particular claims levels, any additional capital provision for any individual simulation of the model viewed in operational risk Large loss case reserves are determined through isolation cannot be relied upon as an accurate dividend or tax considerations careful analysis of the individual claim, often with the forecast.
However, the output from many effects of currency risk credit for carried reserve margins advice of legal advisers.
Liability claims arising from thousands of simulated results can provide a picture Non-sterling amounts have been converted at events such as the 11 September 2001 terrorist of the possible distribution of insurance business Lloyds required rates, including for US Dollars attacks in the US is an example of a case where results.
This output is useful in developing an $1.92 to 1.0. there continues to be some uncertainty over the understanding of the losses which may be borne eventual value of claims.
by the business at varying levels of probability.
56 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Premium development The table below illustrates the development of the estimate of gross written premium and gross earned premium for Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda Ltd after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimate made.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2007 closing exchange rates to aid comparability.
All premium is gross of acquisition costs.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2007 exchange rates to aide comparability.
The Group has two main categories of assets both of which have to be invested in accordance with the regulations applicable to where the underwriting business is being written.
The asset categories are as follows.
Underwriting assets These are the premium received and held to meet future insurance claims.
Capital assets These are the capital required by the regulators to support the underwriting business plus working capital or surplus funds.
Apart from the outstanding borrowings, these assets do not have specific current liabilities attached to them.
Investment governance Amlin manages its investments in accordance with investment frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
These frameworks determine investment policy and the management of investment risk.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
The Boards delegate responsibility for the management of the investments to the Investment Management Executive.
The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Underwriting Director and Chief Investment Officer.
They meet monthly to determine investment tactics, to ensure that asset allocation is appropriate for current market conditions and is in accordance with the investment frameworks.
The Investment Management Executive appoints and monitors the external investment managers and the custodians that are responsible for the safekeeping of the assets.
The Investment Advisory Panel, which consists of external investment professionals as well as members of the Investment Management Executive, meets quarterly.
The Panel monitors and critiques investment strategy and tactics.
In addition Group Compliance provides advice on investment regulations.
Risk tolerance The investment process is formulated from the risk tolerance, which is determined by the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for the capital assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the underwriting assets under these circumstances will be relatively high due to the strong cash flows.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Strategic benchmarks Strategic benchmarks are set for the neutral asset allocation taking account of the risk tolerance.
For the London operations the expected timescale for future cashflows in each currency is calculated by our Group Actuarial team.
These durations form the basis for the strategic benchmarks for the underwriting assets against which the assets are invested.
Due to the short tail nature of the Bermudian operations the underwriting assets are currently held in AAA rated stable net asset value money market funds.
1 model, to determine the optimum asset allocation The strategic benchmarks for capital assets, for both London and Bermuda are set by using a Value at Risk VaR for the current risk tolerance and to ensure that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
Tactical ranges around these strategic benchmarks provide sufficient flexibility to ensure that an appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
Investment management 2 Specialist external investment managers are used to manage each asset class on a segregated, pooled or commingled basis.
For regulatory reasons, the Corporation of Lloyds manages overseas regulatory deposits in commingled funds.
Otherwise manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that the managers will add value to the funds over the medium to long-term.
Investment guidelines are set for each manager to ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis within these guidelines.
The managers are monitored on an ongoing basis and are reviewed periodically using Watson Wyatt Worldwide.
The managers as at 31 December 2007 were as follows: Manager Asset class Segregated funds Aberdeen Asset Management US dollar bonds AEGON Asset Management Sterling bonds ING Real Estate Global property manager of managers Insight Investment Management Sterling bonds Morley Fund Management Global property manager of managers Robeco Investment Management US and Canadian dollar bonds THS Partners Global equities Western Asset Management US dollar and Euro bonds Pooled vehicles Barclays Global Investors Sterling, Euro and US dollar Money Market Funds Goldman Sachs Asset Management Sterling, Euro and US dollar Money Market Funds and LIBOR plus Fund HSBC Asset Management US dollar Money Market Funds Insight Investment Management Sterling Money Market Fund JP Morgan Asset Management US dollar Money Market Funds PIMCO Sterling and US dollar bonds Western Asset Management US dollar Money Market Fund Commingled funds US dollar, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services South African and Japanese bonds Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian and US dollar liquid funds 1 VaR is a statistical measure, which calculates the possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
2 Segregated funds are managed separately for Amlin.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which Amlin and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
The analysis in this section covers the investments for which Amlin has direct responsibility together with 60 million 2006: 55 million of overseas regulatory deposits managed by the Corporation of Lloyds on Amlins behalf in commingled funds.
The assets in the table include 14.7 million 2006: 16.7 million which relates to accrued income and net unsettled payables for investments which are shown separately in the notes to the accounts.
The table does not include 5.5 million 2006: 9.2 million which relates to spread syndicate exposure note 17, derivative positions outstanding at year end and other liquid investments.
There were no material changes in value between the valuation in the table and the actual year end valuation.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 61 Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2007 the industry and geographical splits of global equities and bond portfolios were as follows: Global equities 2007 2006 2007 2006 Industry % % Region based on domicile of issuer % % Oil & Gas 9.3 9.0 United Kingdom 18.1 23.2 Basic Materials 3.9 1.8 USA and Canada 19.0 19.8 Industrials 5.9 13.3 Europe ex UK 37.2 34.9 Consumer Goods and Services 24.8 23.6 Far East 21.5 21.6 Health Care 3.4 5.3 Emerging markets 4.2 0.5 Telecommunications 14.9 11.4 Utilities 6.6 4.7 Financials 29.0 29.9 Technology 2.2 1.0 100 100 100 100 Bonds 2007 2006 2007 2006 Industry % % Region based on domicile of issuer % % Oil & Gas 3.5 3.8 United Kingdom 18.9 29.5 Basic Materials 0.5 0.1 USA and Canada 61.3 61.4 Industrials 1.9 12.8 Europe ex UK 17.7 7.5 Consumer Goods and Services 6.5 5.4 Far East 1.3 0.9 Health Care 0.6 0.1 Emerging markets 0.8 0.6 Telecommunications 5.0 4.5 Other 0.0 0.1 Utilities 1.2 6.3 Financials 80.8 67.0 100 100 100 100 Note: The two tables by industry and region exclude pooled investments.
Valuation risk Amlins earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the investments held in the portfolios.
These valuations vary according to the movements in the underlying markets.
Factors affecting markets include changes in the economic and political environment, risk appetites, liquidity, interest rates and exchange rates.
These factors have an impact on Amlins investments and are taken into consideration when setting strategic benchmarks and tactical asset allocation.
The price of holdings can also vary due to specific risks, such as the corporate strategy and companies balance sheet structure, which may impact the value of individual equity and corporate bond holdings.
This is mitigated by holding diversified portfolios, as specified in the investment guidelines given to the Fund Managers.
These limit the exposure to any one company, which also mitigates credit risk.
In addition the equity mandate limits the exposure to any one geographic region or industrial sector and the bond mandates limit the overall exposure to non-government holdings.
Amlin Groups assets are marked to market at bid price.
Prices are supplied by the custodians, whose pricing processes are covered by their published annual audits.
In accordance with their pricing policy, prices are sourced from two market recognised pricing vendor sources including: FT Interactive, Bloomberg and Reuters.
These pricing sources use closing trades, or where more appropriate in illiquid markets, pricing models.
These prices are reconciled to the fund managers records to check for reasonableness.
Prices for over the counter derivatives, are supplied by Bloomberg and checked to the relevant counterparty.
Property investments are based on the most recent price available, which in some instances may be a quarter in arrears.
Where a property transaction has taken place the transaction price is used if it is the most recent price available.
Low market liquidity during the second half of 2007 meant that assessing fair value was more difficult than usual.
As an additional check, the majority of prices as at 31 December 2007 have been verified by Amlin against publicly available quoted prices to verify that the prices used are a good estimation for fair value.
In 2007 Amlin entered into a number of equity index options to limit the volatility of the equity exposure.
Put options were bought limiting the downside risk of exposures to the FTSE 100, S&P 500, DAX and CAC indices to no more than five percentage points from the market levels at the dates of the trades.
These transactions incurred no premiums as call options were simultaneously sold, which meant that the upside of market movements was capped to a few percentage points.
At the end of the year these hedges covered 25% of the Groups equity exposure until the end of March 2008.
The valuation of these transactions at the 31 December 2007 was 0.2 million.
If global equity markets fell by 10% the pre-tax impact on the overall assets and profit as at 31 December 2007, pre-tax, would be a decline of 15.9 million 2006: 24.8 million.
As explained above, the downside risk is mitigated by the hedges that were in place.
These expire at the end of March.
Without the hedges the downside risk would be 23.2 million.
Interest rate risk 4 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
The value of Amlins bond holdings is therefore subject to fluctuation as bond yields rise and fall.
If yields 5 fall the capital value will rise, and visa versa.
The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater its price volatility.
Typically the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
4 The yield is the rate of return paid if a security is held to maturity.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
5 The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
62 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 The duration of underwriting assets for Syndicate 2001 is set with reference to the duration of the underlying liabilities.
It should be noted that the liabilities are not currently discounted and therefore their value is not impacted by interest rate movements.
Due to the inherently short tail nature of the Bermudian reinsurance exposures, the underwriting assets are currently all held in money market funds.
For the London underwriting assets, cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise, and therefore capital values fall.
The duration of the bond and cash portfolios for the London underwriting assets at year end was as follows: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Years Years Years Years Sterling 2.3 3.2 2.4 2.5 US Dollars 2.8 3.0 3.0 3.1 Euro 3.3 3.2 3.3 3.0 Canadian Dollars 2.7 3.3 3.0 3.2 The asset durations are based on Bloomberg prepayment data.
In the few instances where this is not available, investment managers have provided independent proof of prepayment data used to calculate duration.
Some differences occur between custodian durations and those of fund managers due to the use of different prepayment assumptions.
The material differences are for the European portfolio, where the managers duration is 11% shorter than the custodian and the US portfolios where the fund managers duration is 9% below that of the custodian.
In all instances the duration differences are within the tactical ranges permitted by the investment guidelines.
Foreign exchange risk Underwriting assets are held in the base currencies of sterling, euros, US dollars and Canadian dollars, which represent the majority of the Groups liabilities by currency.
This limits the underwriting foreign exchange rate risk.
However, foreign exchange exposure does arise when business is written in non-base currencies.
These transactions are converted into sterling or US dollars depending if the business is written out of London or Bermuda at the prevailing spot rate once the premium is received.
Consequently there is exposure to currency movements between the exposure being written and the premium being converted.
Payments in non-base currencies are converted back into the underlying currency at the time a claim is to be settled: therefore Amlin is exposed to exchange rate risk between the claim being made and the settlement being paid.
Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-sterling profits or losses are converted into sterling.
For Amlins UK operations it is policy to mitigate foreign exchange risk by systematically converting non-sterling profits into sterling.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but we seek to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the commencement of each underwriting year.
The intention is to time the currency transactions in order to optimise the conversion rates.
This approach avoids the inherent dangers of lumpier sales.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
A summary of the sales for 2007 is shown in the table below.
US dollar Euro Canadian dollar Total Average Total Average Total Average m rate m rate m Rate 31 December 2007 532 2.00 29 1.47 16 2.48 In order to reduce the foreign exchange risk at the Group level, during 2007 $200m of Amlin Bermudas surplus underwriting assets have been converted into sterling at an average exchange rate of 1.9870.
These are transacted with highly rated banks and are marked to market in investment valuations.
The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk as a result of the translation of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency of the Group which is sterling.
As Amlin reports its financial statements in sterling it is subject to foreign exchange risk due to the impact of changes in the sterling US dollar exchange rate on the converted sterling value of Bermudas dollar net assets.
In order to mitigate the impact of these currency fluctuations, during 2007 the Group has implemented a policy of hedging up to 50% of the net dollar exposure resulting from Amlin Bermudas capital assets.
As the transactions are not currently hedge accounted, realised and unrealised gains and losses are recorded in the profit and loss account of the period in which they occur.
At the year end hedges were in place for $400 million.
These were in the form of long sterling calls US dollar puts funded by short sterling puts US dollar calls.
The net valuation of these trades was a 2.5 million loss as at the year end.
If the USD GBP exchange rate were to deteriorate improve by 10%, the movement in the net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding overseas subsidiaries, would result in a 31.8 million foreign exchange loss gain in the Group income statement at 31 December 2007.
In relation to translation of overseas subsidiaries, the same exchange rate deterioration would result in a 68 million additional exchange loss through consolidated reserves.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 10.6 million on the hedges in place.
The same exchange rate improvement would result in a 68 million exchange gain through consolidated reserves.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 20.4 million on the hedges in place.
Liquidity risk It is important to ensure that claims are paid as they fall due.
Levels of cash are therefore managed on a daily basis.
Buffers of liquid assets are also held in excess of the immediate requirements to avoid us having to be forced sellers of any of our assets, which may result in prices below fair value being realised, especially in periods of below normal investment market activity.
The policy of limiting the extent of duration divergence between the underwriting assets and the liabilities helps to reduce the risk of a cash flow mismatch.
The Group funds its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of equity and debt securities exposed to market risk.
The following table indicates the contractual timing of cash flows arising from assets and liabilities for management of insurance contracts: As at 31 December 2007 No stated Contractual cash flows undiscounted Carrying Financial assets Maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Shares and other variable yield securities 307.5 307.5 Debt and other fixed income securities 174.7 172.6 387.7 541.2 302.0 1,578.2 Cash and liquid funds 762.4 762.4 Total 1,244.6 172.6 387.7 541.2 302.0 2,648.1 No stated Expected cash flows undiscounted Carrying Insurance liabilities Maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance contracts short term 568.4 415.3 181.6 184.9 1,350.2 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held short term contracts 100.8 82.8 39.1 47.5 270.2 Total 467.6 332.5 142.5 137.4 1,080.0 Difference in contractual cash flows 1,244.6 295.0 55.2 398.7 164.6 1,568.1 As at 31 December 2006 No stated Contractual cash flows undiscounted Carrying Financial assets Maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Shares and other variable yield securities 291.4 291.4 Debt and other fixed income securities 75.7 260.5 293.4 669.2 389.6 1,688.4 Cash and liquid funds 413.6 413.6 Total 780.7 260.5 293.4 669.2 389.6 2,393.4 No stated Expected cash flows undiscounted Carrying Insurance liabilities Maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance contracts - 658.2 452.1 181.1 126.1 1,417.5 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held - 177.7 116.9 37.7 24.7 357.0 Total - 480.5 335.2 143.4 101.4 1,060.5 Difference in contractual cash flows 780.7 220.0 41.8 525.8 288.2 1,332.9 The assets in the above table include 18.0 million 2006: 16.7 million accrued income which is shown separately in the notes to the accounts.
The table above does not include the derivative positions that Amlin plc had outstanding at the year end.
64 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Notes to accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 Liquidity in the event of a major disaster is tested regularly using internal cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
In addition, the London underwriting asset investment guidelines require at least 25% of the funds to be held in government bonds and or cash equivalents, which are highly liquid.
This figure is 100% for Bermuda.
In addition pre-arranged revolving credit facilities are available from bank facilities.
As discussed above, the capital assets are not matched to liabilities.
However, if a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also available in the capital assets.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to loss if a counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations, including failure to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk could therefore have an impact upon the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
Amlin is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance debtors.
The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2007 of the exposure of the bond portfolio and reinsurance debtors by credit quality.
The table also shows the total value of premium debtors, representing amounts due from policy holders.
The quality of these debtors is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
The reinsurance debtors represent the amounts due at 31 December 2007 as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned and unearned risks.
Reinsurance debtors are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
As well as actual failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers ability to perform these duties in a timely manner.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through the credit research carried out by the investment managers.
The investment guidelines are designed to mitigate credit risk by ensuring diversification of the holdings.
For each portfolio there are limits to the exposure to single issuers and to the total amount that can be held in each credit quality rating category, as determined by reference to credit rating agencies.
Additionally there are limits on the overall level of non-government bonds that the fund managers can hold in the bond portfolios.
During 2007, markets became increasingly concerned about the ability of sub-prime borrowers, that is borrowers with a poor credit history, to meet their repayment commitments, particularly in the US.
The impact of this spread to concerns about the ability of insurers, who have provided guarantees that enhance the credit of the issuer, to meet those guarantees.
The consequence was a widening of the yield spread of these bonds over the yield of comparable sovereign debt.
At the year end within the asset and mortgage backed holdings there was 24.0 million direct exposure to sub-prime home equity loans debt, of which 22.0 million AAA rated and 2.0 million AA rated.
In addition there was 3.6 million indirect exposure to sub-prime in the bond pooled vehicles.
34.7 million of the bond portfolio was guaranteed by insurers, so called monolines, was 34.7 million.
At 31 December 2007 all these bonds were AAA rated.
The managers have stress tested each bond and conservatively believe in the event of failure by the guarantors that 96% of the bonds will remain investment grade.
There was an additional 1.1 million sub-prime mortgage debt that was all AAA rated, as well as 28.2 million short duration asset backed auto loans which were classified as sub-prime.
Total % of total assets direct Total MBS & ABS AAA AA Indirect Total m m MBS incl agencies 5.6% 0.2% 2.4% 8.2% 154.3 217.3 ABS ABS other 1.9% 0.1% 0.1% 2.0% 51.4 53.8 ABS Home Equity 1.0% 0.1% 0.1% 1.2% 29.3 33.2 Total 8.5% 0.4% 2.6% 11.4% 235.0 304.3 Total direct Total Alt-A AAA AA Indirect Total m m Collateralised mortgage obligation 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 9.9 9.9 Home equity loan 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 2.3 2.3 Auto 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Indirect 0.2% 0.2% 6.4 Total 0.5% 0.0% 0.2% 0.7% 12.2 18.6 Sub-prime Collateralised mortgage obligation 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.1 1.1 Home equity loan 0.8% 0.1% 0.9% 24.0 24.0 Auto 1.1% 0.0% 1.1% 28.2 28.2 Indirect 0.1% 0.1% 3.6 Total 1.9% 0.1% 0.1% 2.1% 53.3 56.9 The credit risk in respect of reinsurance debtors is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security, by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee, prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on Standard & Poors ratings and the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
As of 31 December 2007 reinsurance assets at a nominal value of 13.3 million 2006: 13.2 million were greater than 3 months overdue and provided for to the value of 8.7 million 2006: 10.3 million.
The Group holds collateral of 0.3 million in relation to these assets.
The Group recognised a total impairment gain in respect of the recovery during the year of 4.3 million 2006: 2.3 million on reinsurance assets and insurance receivables.
The impact on profit before tax of 1% variation in the total reinsurance debtors would be 3.7 million 2006: 4.2 million.
