Information for shareholders Ashmore Group plc Registrar Registered in England and Wales.
Lloyds TSB Registrars Company No.
3675683 The Causeway Worthing Registered office West Sussex BN99 6DA 20 Bedfordbury London WC2N 4BL UK shareholder helpline: 0870 600 3970 Tel: 44 0 20 7557 4100 International shareholder helpline: 44 121 415 7047 Fax: 44 0 20 7557 4141 Further information about the Registrar is available Principal UK trading subsidiary on their website www.
Up to date information about current holdings on the Registered in England and Wales, register is also available at www.
Shareholders will need their reference number Business address and registered office as above.
account number and postcode to view information on their own holding.
Further information on Ashmore Group plc can be found on the Companys website: Share price information www.
Share price information can be found at Financial calendar www.
com or through your broker.
Announcement of results Share dealing for year ended 30 June 2007 12 September 2007 Shares may be sold through a stockbroker or share First quarter AuM statement 16 October 2007 dealing service.
There are a variety of services available.
Lloyds TSB Registrars offer a secure, Annual general meeting 31 October 2007 free and easy-to-use internet-based share dealing service known as Shareview Dealing.
Ex-dividend date 7 November 2007 To access this service, you can log on at www.
co. uk dealing or contact the helpline Record date 9 November 2007 on 0870 850 0852 to deal by telephone.
Final dividend payment date 7 December 2007 You may also use the Shareview service to access and manage your share investments and view Second quarter AuM statement 15 January 2008 balance movements, indicative share prices, information on recent dividends, portfolio valuation Announcement of unaudited and general information for shareholders.
interim results for the six months Shareholders must register at www.
co. uk ended 31 December 2007 26 February 2008 entering the shareholder reference on the share certificate and other personal details.
Announcement of results for Having selected a personal PIN, a user ID will be the year ended 30 June 2008 September 2008 issued by the Registrar.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 67 Information for shareholders continued Electronic copies of the 2007 Annual Report and Dividend payments directly into bank or financial statements and other publications building society accounts Copies of the 2007 Annual Report and financial We recommend that all dividend payments are made directly into a bank or building society account.
statements, the notice of annual general meeting, other corporate publications, press releases and Dividends are paid via BACS, providing tighter security and access to funds more quickly.
To apply for a announcements are available on the Companys website at www.
dividend mandate form, contact the Registrar, or you can find one by logging on to www.
co. uk Sharegift under Frequently Asked Questions or by calling the helpline on 0870 600 3970.
Shareholders with only a small number of shares whose value makes them uneconomic to sell may Transferring Ashmore Group shares wish to consider donating to charity through Sharegift, an independent charity share donation scheme.
Transferring some or all of your shares to someone For further information, please contact either the else for example your partner or a member of your Registrar or Sharegift: Telephone 44 0 20 7828 1151, family requires completion of a share transfer form, or see the website at www.
which is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
The form should be fully completed and returned Frequent shareholder enquiries with your share certificate representing at least the number of shares being transferred.
The Registrar Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, will then process the transfer and issue a balance share certificates or transfers and address changes share certificate to you if applicable.
The Registrar should be sent to the Registrar: the Companys will be able to help you with any questions you governance reports, corporate governance guidelines may have.
and the terms of reference of the board committees can be found on the Companys website at Lost share certificate s www.
Shareholders who lose their share certificate s or Notifying the Company of a change of address have their certificate s stolen should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars immediately by calling the shareholder You should notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing.
If you hold shares in joint names, the notification to change address must be signed by the first-named Disability helpline shareholder.
You may choose to do this on-line, by logging on to www.
You will need your For shareholders with hearing difficulties a special shareholder reference number to access this service text phone number is available: 0870 600 3950. this can be found on your share certificate or from a dividend counterfoil.
You will be asked to select your own PIN and a user ID will be posted to you.
Notifying the Company of a change of name You should notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing of your new name and previous name.
You should attach a copy of your marriage certificate or your change of name deed, together with your share certificates and any uncashed dividend cheques in your old name, so that the Registrar can reissue them.
68 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Definitions Admission admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange Articles the articles of association of the Company AuM assets under management average AUM average of the month end AuMs for the relevant period basis points 100th of a per cent board Companys board of directors Combined Code Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2006 Companies Acts every statute including any orders, regulations or other subordinate legislation made under it from time to time in force concerning companies in so far as it applies to the Company Company or Ashmore Ashmore Group plc CSR Corporate Social Responsibility $ or dollars all references to dollars or $ sign are to the currency of the US ebit earnings before interest and tax eps earnings per share EU European Union FRC Financial Reporting Council FTSE 250 comprised of mid-capitalised companies, not covered by the FTSE 100 Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS or IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards IPO initial public offering US United States of America The paper used for this report is sourced from virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests.
It is recyclable and bio-degradable.
Designed and produced by Weber Shandwick Financial Design Ashmore Group plc 20 Bedfordbury London WC2N 4BL United Kingdom www.
