Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder services Consolidated tax vouchers Managing your shareholding Private shareholders who have dividends paid directly into The Companys Register of Members is maintained by the their bank or building society account receive one consolidated Companys Registrar, Equiniti, and any shareholders who tax voucher each year unless they have requested otherwise.
have any queries in respect of their shareholding should If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each contact them directly by using the contact details provided dividend payment please contact the Registrar.
In addition to assisting with general queries the Registrar can also help with the following: Scrip Dividend The Company currently operates the Aviva Scrip Dividend Amalgamating your shareholding Scheme the Scheme which provides shareholders If shareholders received more than one copy of the with the opportunity to receive their dividends in the form Companys communications, it could be because there of new ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash.
is more than one record for them on the share register.
Shareholders who have not joined the Scheme but wish To avoid duplicate mailings the Registrar can arrange for to do so should contact the Registrar, Equiniti, and request accounts to be amalgamated.
The completed mandate form will need Dividend payments directly to your bank or to be received by Equiniti by no later than 17 April 2008 building society account in order to be effective for the 2007 final dividend payable As an alternative to having dividends paid by cheque, on 16 May 2008.
Further details are included on the shareholders can, if they wish, have them credited directly Companys website at www.
into their bank or building society account on the dividend It is the Companys intention that following the payment payment date.
Having the dividend paid directly into of the 2007 final dividend on 16 May 2008 the Aviva Scrip their bank or building society account avoids the risk of Dividend Scheme will be withdrawn and shareholders will cheques being lost or intercepted in the post and is more be offered the opportunity to participate in a Dividend convenient as payment is credited automatically on the Reinvestment Plan.
Full details of the new plan will be payment date.
Shareholders wishing to set up a dividend communicated to shareholders at this time.
mandate can do so by completing the dividend mandate form attached to the dividend cheque, via the Companys website ID fraud unsolicited mail at www.
com dividendmandate or by contacting Aviva has been working with Equiniti to review its the Registrar.
procedures and where possible restrict the opportunities for fraud.
All shareholders must continue to be vigilant For overseas shareholders, an overseas payment service and if any unsolicited mail offering advice is received, is available, which allows shareholders in over 30 countries shareholders should inform the Registrar immediately.
worldwide to have dividends credited directly into their bank accounts in local currencies, normally costing less than Corporate Nominee paying in a sterling cheque.
Dividend mandate forms for The Company operates a corporate nominee service, overseas shareholders can be obtained via the Companys the Aviva Share Account.
Shareholders who choose to join website at www.
com dividendmandate or by the nominee account will not have any personal details contacting the Registrar.
entered on the Companys public share register.
Members of the Aviva Share Account may retain the same rights as registered shareholders and are able to elect to receive the same shareholder communications.
To join the Aviva Share Account or view the terms and conditions please contact the Registrar using the contact details provided on page 272.
com for up-to-date investor information including the Companys latest results and key dates.
An electronic copy of current and past Annual and Interim Reports can be viewed online or downloaded from the website.
Shareholders can also nd Avivas current and historic share prices, share dealing information, news, updates and, when available, presentations from the Group Chief Executive.
Shareholders may also register to receive future shareholder communications electronically by visiting www.
com ecomms Also for a comprehensive shareholder guide including practical help on many shareholder related topics including transferring shares and updating personal details online, shareholders may visit the shareholder centre at www.
com shareholders 270 Electronic communications ShareGift Other Aviva has taken full advantage of changes brought about by the The Orr Mackintosh Foundation information Companies Act 2006 which recognises the growing importance operates a purely voluntary charity of electronic communications and allows companies to provide share donation scheme for documentation and communications to shareholders via their websites shareholders who wish to dispose except to those who have specically elected to receive a hard of small numbers of shares when ie paper copy.
the dealing costs or minimum fees makes it uneconomical to The wider use of electronic communications enables fast receipt of sell them.
Details of the scheme documents, reduces the Companys printing, paper and postage costs are available from ShareGift and has a positive impact on the environment.
org or Shareholders may also cast their vote for the 2008 AGM online quickly can be obtained from the and easily using the Sharevote service by visiting www.
or the Aviva website at www.
com agm Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Barclays Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Share dealing Financial Services Authority, registered number 124247.
Shareholders who hold their shares in the Aviva Share Account will need to use one of the services detailed Barclays Stockbrokers also offers a postal share dealing below to buy or sell Aviva shares.
For further information and a postal share share certicate can use the services below or any bank, dealing form telephone 0870 514 3263. building society or stockbroker offering share dealing NatWest Stockbrokers provide a share dealing service facilities.
Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling either over the telephone or at certain NatWest Aviva shares should seek professional financial advice.
branches for Aviva Share Account holders only.
You can buy or sell shares via the internet or by For more information contact NatWest Stockbrokers on telephone through Shareview Dealing, a share dealing 0845 122 0689.
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited NWS service provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
For internet purchases and sales log on to NWS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services www.
co. uk dealing and for telephone Authority, registered number 124395.
Registered Ofce: purchases and sales call 08456 037 037 between Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Registered in England and Wales, registered number 1959479, England.
NWS is operated by a joint venture Equiniti Financial Services Limited also offers a postal between The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and share dealing service.
For further information and a The Toronto-Dominion Bank.
postal share dealing form telephone 0871 384 2953.
Share dealing for overseas shareholders Equiniti Financial Services Limited is authorised and To sell Aviva shares over the telephone, shareholders can regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 44 0 141 352 3959. number 6208699.
Non UK residents will need to provide various documents To buy or sell shares over the telephone, shareholders in order to use this service and details will be provided can contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 0870 549 3002 on registration.
Please note that regulations prevent for shareholders with a share certicate or 0870 549 3001 this service from being offered to the residents of the for shareholders with an Aviva Share Account statement.
United States, Canada and Australia.
Settlement proceeds To check instructions and maintain high quality service will be sent to either a UK sterling bank account or by standards, Barclays Stockbrokers may record and monitor sterling cheque.
New Business Development hours are between 8am and 6pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays.
Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Aviva plc ordinary shares at www.
com shareprice or alternatively can call FT Cityline on 0906 843 2197.
Calls are currently charged at 60 pence per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other networks and mobile networks may vary.
The average time to access the share price is approximately one minute.
The current share price of Avivas preference shares can be found on the London Stock Exchange website at www.
com en-gb pricesnews Shareholder information Shareholder prole The categories of ordinary shareholders and the range and size of shareholdings as at 31 December 2007 are set out below: Analysis of shareholders No.
Charges from other telephone providers may vary.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder services continued Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS on 1 May 2008 at 11am.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the Meeting, is available on the Companys website at www.
com agm Shareholders unable to attend the Meeting still have an opportunity to submit a question to the Board of Directors.
Answers to the most frequently asked questions will be circulated at the Meeting and published on the Companys website shortly after the Meeting.
Any shareholders wishing to submit a question may do this by completing and returning the form included in the Notice of Meeting or online via the Aviva website at www.
com agm The voting results for the 2008 AGM, including the number of votes withheld, will be available on the Companys website shortly after the AGM at www.
com agm Group financial calendar for 2008 Announcement of quarterly trading update 25 April Annual General Meeting 1 May Announcement of unaudited six months interim results 30 July Announcement of quarterly trading update 22 October Ordinary shares 2007 final dividend Ex-dividend date 26 March Record date 28 March Scrip dividend price available 2 April Dividend payment date 16 May Preference shares 3 First dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 March 3 First dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 June 3 Second dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 September 3 Second dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 December Useful contact details Detailed below are the contact details and various addresses that shareholders may nd useful.
Please quote Aviva plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held, in all correspondence.
If you have your shareholder reference, please have this available as well.
General shareholding, administration Individual Savings Accounts ISAs : and Aviva Share Account queries: Equiniti ISA Manager Equiniti Aspect House, Spencer Road Aspect House, Spencer Road Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA 0871 384 2244 www.
co. uk Barclays Stockbrokers ISA Manager e-mail: aviva@equiniti.
com Tay House, 300 Bath Street 0871 384 2953 Glasgow G2 4JR 0870 514 3263 Calls to these numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Aviva Group: Internet sites www.
com Aviva owns various internet sites, most of which interlink www.
com shareholders with each other.
272 UK Long-term savings and general insurance: Other www.
com information Fund management: www.
com Aviva worldwide internet sites: www.
com websites Aviva plc Alternative format Registered in England Number: If you would like to request a copy of our Annual 2468686 Report and Accounts or Annual Review in an Registered Ofce: alternative format, for example, large print, braille or St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ audio cassette, please contact the Registrar using the Telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 details above.
com Introduction 1 Introduction 2 Group structure 4 Chairmans statement 6 Group chief executives statement One Aviva, twice the value.
Realising the full potential of Avivas businesses by acting 10 Basis of preparation as one group.
11 Group strategy 14 Key performance indicators 16 Group performance Our purpose is to bring Regional overviews: 20 UK prosperity and peace of mind.
32 Europe 40 North America 46 Asia Pacific We will do this by realising our 52 Finance 64 Employees and responsibility vision:One Aviva, twice the value.
By working together across our businesses, we will optimise our performance 76 Board of directors in the global marketplace and 78 Executive management 79 Directors report maximise the value we can 82 Corporate governance report 88 Audit Committee report generate for all our stakeholders.
90 Nomination Committee report 91 Risk and Regulatory Committee report Andrew Moss 92 Corporate Social Responsibility Group chief executive Committee report 93 Directors remuneration report 111 Independent auditors report Financial Statements International Financial Financial Statements Information on the Reporting Standards IFRS basis European Embedded Value EEV basis 114 Accounting policies 246 Independent auditors report to the directors 126 Consolidated income statement of Aviva plc on the alternative method of 127 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating reporting long-term business profits profit to profit before tax 247 Alternative method of reporting long-term 129 Consolidated statement of recognised income business profits Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar using the paperless proofing system RingMaster.
and expense 129 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated Board photography by Marcus Ginns.
shareholders equity 130 Consolidated balance sheet All registered trademarks acknowledged.
131 Consolidated cash flow statement 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements: 236 Financial statements of the Company We are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
This year our annual report and accounts has been printed by Burlington.
We choose Burlington because they have Purpose the important environmental certification by SGS for the FSC standards.
Also we take care to minimise the impact on the environment in the paper we use.
The paper we have used, 268 Aviva Group of Companies Vision 270 Shareholder services Greencoat 55 Silk, is made from 55% recycled post-consumer fibre using non-toxic, harmless fide-inking residues.
It also contains fibre sourced from responsibly managed and sustainable forests, certified in accordance with the FSC.
And additionally, it is manufactured under strict environmental management systems, the international ISO 14001 Strategic Targets standard and EMAS Eco-Management & Audit Scheme.
priorities FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures there is an audited Aviva Investors chain of custody from the tree in the well managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
UK Europe North Asia Cover image: ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management America Pacific system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
An overview of our international marketing campaigns that bring the Aviva brands to life.
Aviva plc Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ The years achievements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Telephone 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686 Achieved strong growth in sales and profits across our worldwide portfolio of businesses despite experiencing the worst UK floods in 60 years Introduced a regional management structure and set out medium term growth targets Completed the integration of our businesses in the USA and Ireland Achieved ratings upgrades in our US life business from AM Best and Standard & Poors Achieved savings of 250 million in the UK life and general insurance businesses Gained access to over 50 million potential new customers through bancassurance deals Completed a merger in Turkey, creating Aviva SA, which will contribute to growth in central and eastern Europe Worldwide sales EEV operating profit before tax 3,000 50 2,500 40 2,000 30 1,500 20 1,000 10 500 49.2bn 3,286m 2006: 41.5bn 2006: 3,251m Forty five 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 2005 2006 2007 million IFRS operating profit before tax IFRS total return after tax customers.
90 IFRS m IFRS total return after tax m 2,500 2,500 Twenty seven 80 Dividend cover EPS pence 70 2,000 2.0 2,000 countries.
Return based on opening equity shareholders' funds on an EEV basis.
From continuing operations, including share of associates' premiums.
pence m m times bn m m pence % Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Forty five million customers.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Introduction One Aviva, twice the value.
Realising the full potential of Avivas businesses by acting as one group.
Our purpose is to bring prosperity and peace of mind.
We will do this by realising our vision:One Aviva, twice the value.
By working together across our businesses, we will optimise our performance in the global marketplace and maximise the value we can generate for all our stakeholders.
Andrew Moss Group chief executive Purpose Prosperity and peace of mind Vision One Aviva, twice the value Strategic Targets priorities Aviva Investors UK Europe North Asia America Pacific Contents 2 Group structure 4 Chairmans statement 6 Group chief executives statement 8 United Kingdom 10 Europe 12 North America 14 Asia Pacific 16 Finance 18 Employees and responsibility Cover image: 20 Board of directors 22 Summary financial statements An overview of our international marketing 28 Shareholder services campaigns that bring the Aviva brands to life.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 The years achievements 1 Achieved strong growth in sales and profits across our worldwide portfolio of businesses despite experiencing the worst UK floods in 60 years.
Introduced a regional management structure and set out medium-term growth targets.
Completed the integration of our businesses in the USA and Ireland.
Achieved ratings upgrades in our US life business from AM Best and Standard & Poors Achieved savings of 250 million in the UK life and general insurance businesses.
Gained access to over 50 million potential new customers through bancassurance deals.
Completed a merger in Turkey, creating Aviva SA, which will contribute to growth in central and eastern Europe.
m pence m times m m bn % pence Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Group structure 2 Aviva is the worlds fifth largest insurance group and the largest insurance services provider in the UK.
We are one of the leading providers of life and pension products in Europe and are actively growing our long-term savings businesses in Asia Pacific and the USA.
Our main activities are long-term savings, fund management and general insurance.
We have premium income and investment sales of 49.2 billion and 364 billion of funds under management.
We have 57,000 employees serving around 45 million customers.
On 28 February we announced the launch of Aviva Investors, our global asset management operation.
For 2007, total investment sales of 6,983 million 2006: 4,910 million and total fund management operating profit on an IFRS basis of 155 million 2006: 155 million are reported in the regional split below.
UK Europe Read more Read more Total sales Total sales pages 8-9 pages 10-11 20,302m 19,719m 2006: 19,601m 2006: 17,018m PVNBP 11,655m PVNBP 14,914m Investment sales 2,751m Investment sales 1,572m Net written premiums 5,896m Net written premiums 3,233m 20,302m 19,719m EEV operating profit EEV operating profit 1,330m 1,971m 2006: 1,936m 2006: 1,581m Long-term savings 864m Long-term savings 1,543m Fund management 41m Fund management 31m General insurance 433m General insurance 442m Other operations 8 m Other operations 45 m 1,330m 1,971m IFRS operating profit IFRS operating profit 1,225m 1,230m 2006: 1,835m 2006:1,083m Employees and locations Employees and locations 33,686 16,059 2006: 33,251 2006: 16,942 Our life and general insurance businesses are Belgium Luxembourg based in York and Norwich respectively, with Czech Republic Netherlands operations in over 35 UK locations.
We also France Poland have overseas operations in India and Sri Lanka Germany Romania Hungary Russia Morley our fund management business is Italy Spain based in the UK and has offices spread across Ireland Turkey the globe Lithuania Major operating brands Major operating brands Norwich Union is a market leader in the UK Aviva has market leading presence across long-term savings market Europe in long-term savings and continues to Norwich Union Insurance is the leading general lead the general insurance market in Ireland insurer in the UK and we also provide a wide and the Netherlands.
In addition we have a range of motoring services through the RAC highly successful fund management business supporting the results in the region Morley is one of the UKs largest active fund managers and the largest fund management business in the Aviva group Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 3 Contribution to Group total sales 1 4 1: UK 2: Europe 3: North America 4: Asia Pacific 3 42% 40% 10% 8% 2 North America Asia Pacific Read more Read more Total sales Total sales pages 12-13 pages 14-15 5,014m 4,117m 2006: 2,273m 2006: 2,572m PVNBP 3,602m PVNBP 1,429m Net written premiums 1,412m Investment sales 2,660m 5,014m Net written premiums 28m 4,117m EEV operating profit EEV operating profit 408m 2006: 183m 97m Long-term savings 255m 2006: 92m Fund management 3m Long-term savings 91m General insurance 154m Fund management 15m Other operations 4 m General insurance 4m 408m Other operations 13 m 97m IFRS operating profit IFRS operating profit 256m 2006: 164m 37m 2006: 50m Employees and locations Employees and locations 4,717 2006: 4,659 2,052 2006: 1,784 Canada United States Australia Malaysia China Singapore Hong Kong Sri Lanka Major operating brands India Taiwan Aviva USA ranks first and second in # South Korea the indexed life and indexed annuity markets, respectively Major operating brands Aviva Canada is ranked second in the Canadian general insurance market In Singapore, we rank first in combined sales of long-term savings products, including unit trusts Australia: seventh in individual protection market and sixth in the platform market One of the fastest growing life insurers in Hong Kong Based on gross worldwide premiums at 31 December 2006.
Typically includes motor, household, creditor, health, commercial motor, commercial property and commercial liability insurance.
Present value of new business premium PVNBP is equal to total single premium sales received in the year plus the discounted value of annual premiums expected to be received over the term of new contracts, and is expressed at the point of sale.
Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg are reported as part of the Netherlands results.
# Aviva announced on 31 January 2008 that it is to enter the South Korea life insurance market by forming a consortium with Woori Finance Holdings Company Ltd. Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Chairmans statement 4 There are still significant long-term growth opportunities Dear Shareholder, in the mature markets of the UK, Europe and the It has been a busy year for Aviva.
I am United States, but there are other big markets emerging.
Not just in Asia, but also in central and eastern Europe.
pleased to report that the group has That, I think, is a very exciting prospect.
It will be good performed well and made great progress in for the insurance industry generally, but for Aviva in pursuit of our ambition to provide prosperity particular, because I think we understand better than and peace of mind for our customers.
most the nature of these tremendous opportunities and Our new group chief executive, how to take advantage of them.
Andrew Moss, leads a management team Dividend based on a global structure of four regions the UK, Europe, North America and Asia I am pleased to announce that our recommended final Pacific.
We have refocused our strategic vision ordinary dividend is 21.10 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 33.00 pence, an increase of as one Aviva, twice the value.
This expresses 10% against last year 2006: 30.00 pence.
This increase our commitment to embark upon the next reflects our intention to increase the dividend on a stage of our development from an progressive basis, while retaining capital to support international group into a truly integrated, future business growth.
As a guide, we use dividend global business.
We aim to derive the cover in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range, based on IFRS operating earnings after tax.
maximum benefit from all parts of the group by sharing our resources and expertise widely Board developments and by operating as a single organisation.
At the same time, we achieved a robust Richard Harvey stepped down as group chief executive in July.
I wish him all the best for his retirement and set of results for 2007 while dealing with extend the thanks of everyone at Aviva for the substantial the floods in the UK.
We have completed part he played in the success of the group over the the integration of AmerUs in the United States past 15 years.
The board is delighted that Andrew Moss and Ark Life in Ireland, and undertaken has succeeded Richard, having made an impressive a cost and efficiency review in the UK.
contribution since joining the company as group finance We have also set new cost saving targets director in 2004.
We are equally pleased that Philip Scott has brought his considerable experience to the role of for our UK and European businesses totalling group finance director.
Our number one priority We welcomed Nikesh Arora to the board as an is to manage our existing assets effectively independent non-executive director in July.
Nikesh is and efficiently, while continuing to invest president of Europe, Middle East and Africa operations for growth.
at Google, with responsibility for the companys business in more than 25 countries.
He brings great experience in managing international businesses, combined with External view cutting-edge understanding of technology, innovation and marketing.
The economic picture during the last months of 2007 was Scott Wheway was appointed to the board as a extremely volatile.
Losses on sub-prime lending in the US new independent non-executive director with effect from sparked a crisis in financial markets and share prices fell 5 December 2007.
Scott was most recently managing as investors lost confidence.
Although major central banks director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots and have cut interest rates, an economic slowdown during prior to that he was CEO of Tesco in Japan where the first half of 2008 seems likely before the markets he established the business and shaped the long-term begin to recover.
We are also operating in an increasingly strategy for the country.
Im delighted that Scott is difficult general insurance environment, with substantial joining us.
He brings a wealth of retail experience to weather-related losses caused by floods in the UK, Aviva, and in particular he has championed first rate and markets generally hardening.
customer service, putting the customer at the heart However, many countries around the world are of the businesses hes worked for.
I am confident he becoming richer.
People are living longer, in better health, will be a real asset to the Aviva board.
They want to put aside During the course of the year group executive money for their future, and will look for a trustworthy directors Patrick Snowball and Tidjane Thiam left the provider such as Aviva.
In addition, as people become group.
I would like to thank both of them for their better off, they become more conscious of protecting important contribution to our strategic thinking on the what they have.
They want to insure their motor cars board and most recently for their leadership of our UK and their homes and their property.
Again, that creates and European businesses.
I would also like to pay tribute business for Aviva.
to Richard Whitaker, who has retired after serving the board as company secretary since 1998.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 5 Employees I thank all of our employees for their skill and dedication in helping to deliver a robust set of results.
We recognise that the longer term performance of Aviva depends on the inextricable link between motivated staff and satisfied customers.
Our people are our most important asset.
This is not empty rhetoric.
We strive constantly to make Aviva an employer of choice.
We are determined to be an ethical, civilised organisation that respects the people who work for it.
Inevitably from time to time we have to make difficult decisions affecting jobs.
Our employees have coped well with continuing uncertainty following the introduction of our regional structure and the new targets for reducing costs.
We are introducing a talent management programme across the whole group that will recognise each individuals particular skills and potential, with a view to matching them to the roles and career development opportunities that suit them best.
We have also introduced employee satisfaction measures into the calculation of executive pay and bonuses.
Recognition External recognition provides some reassurance that we continue to perform to high standards.
Indicators of our success include the fact that, in 2007, for the second consecutive year, Aviva was named one of The Times newspapers Top 50 Places Where Women Want to Work.
We earned a bronze award for excellence in people management in India, and an international award for our leadership in managing diversity in the workplace.
Besides accolades specifically for employment practices, we continue to win plaudits across our business operations.
These range from awards as best general insurer and best property manager to endorsements for product innovation, e-business, socially responsible investment, online financial education and online communications.
Outlook We look forward to building on Avivas achievements as we work towards our new vision of one Aviva, twice the value.
I know what talented people we have working in the groups businesses around the world.
Thanks to them, we have made great progress.
With their support, Aviva will continue to serve its customers well and flourish into the future.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Group chief executives statement 6 Dear Shareholder, One Aviva, twice the value Our vision of one Aviva, twice the value puts a clear This is my first report on our annual results focus on growth and efficiency.
It signals a period of since becoming group chief executive last transformation which will bring us closer to building July.
I am pleased to say that Aviva delivered a truly integrated, global business.
Over the past few another robust performance in challenging years, we have grown substantially both organically and circumstances in 2007.
Our scale and international reach means that we can now move towards managing Aviva as across our long-term savings and asset one group, drawing on our collective knowledge and management businesses more than offset resources to accelerate the pace of change.
weather-related losses from our UK general The creation of Aviva Investors, will seek to harness insurance operation.
the potential and power of our investment businesses As group chief executive, my intention across the globe.
We want to improve the discipline and rigour that we apply in choosing to allocate capital is to build on the achievements of my as a composite company, and thinking as One Aviva predecessor, Richard Harvey.
I have set will help in achieving this aim.
We can also achieve out a clear direction and a set of common more benefits from our global brand by having a more goals to take Aviva further up the premier consistent and unified approach to how we position league of international financial services ourselves in global markets.
Now is the time to set ourselves a target in line with groups.
It is an ambitious and exciting agenda.
our vision and we will aim to double IFRS total earnings We remain committed to our diversified per share by 2012, at the latest, to drive dividend growth.
model of long-term savings, general insurance and investment management, but with Prosperity and peace of mind a new regional organisation.
Our top priority Our business is about creating prosperity and peace is to realise the full potential of Avivas of mind for our customers.
Our long-term savings and existing businesses.
asset management businesses aim to create financial prosperity and peace of mind, while our general insurance operations protect health and property when things go wrong: for example, during the worst floods in 60 years in the UK last summer.
Our staff responded brilliantly Our new executive management team to the crisis, doubling the numbers manning our call Standing from left to right: John Ainley, centres and providing mobile claims centres to provide Mark Hodges, Simon Machell, Tom Godlasky, help on the spot.
Igal Mayer, Anupam Sahay, Philip Scott and Alain Dromer.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 7 Our customers are the reason we have a business.
On an IFRS basis, the group delivered an overall profit Constant attention to meeting the needs of our customers before tax attributable to shareholders of 1,842 million will create extra sales momentum and deliver growth.
By eliminating unnecessary complexity and drawing our operations across the world closer together, we can share People services, cut costs, boost productivity and produce tailored We have 57,000 people employed around the world, products at affordable prices for our 45 million customers and it is vital that they all understand the part they have in different markets.
to play in attaining our objectives.
Our new structure encourages a greater sense of teamwork, and provides Regionalisation more clarity about how our people contribute towards overall goals.
I am very grateful for the support and We are becoming a truly global organisation, starting from commitment of all our employees.
During periods of our historic roots as a UK-based company, developing a uncertainty and challenge they have continued to work major European presence and now growing in Asia Pacific with great professionalism and dedication to achieve the and North America.
The regional structure that we have best possible results for our customers and shareholders.
now put in place reflects this development and gets more Based on feedback from our global staff opinion of our people closer to our customers, making it easier to surveys, we are actively managing our talent across the offer products and services that are relevant in todays group to provide more opportunities for people to develop.
For example, some 400 people are If we succeed in our aims and ambitions over the next few moving out of the group centre and closer to the years, this will be a company that grows and growing businesses.
companies are exciting places to work, with interesting My new senior management team bring energy jobs and fantastic career opportunities for staff.
and fresh thinking to Aviva, together with a great deal of experience and expertise.
They are crucial to the successful running of our business, and I intend that they should be Outlook both visible and accountable.
The UK remains the largest of our businesses.
It is responsible for 42% of our sales and is the bedrock Growth of the groups success.
We intend to maintain a market leadership position in the UK in both our Insurance is a growth business.
Demographics show there long-term savings and general insurance businesses.
will be an increasing need for people to invest for their Europe continues to be a big success story.
We are the future well-being, not only in mature economies but number one writer of life and pensions business across also in developing markets.
In this context, we have Europe including the UK, based on multi-distribution set demanding growth targets for each of our regions channels in the larger, more developed, markets, and which are set out in the regional sections of this report.
through successful partnering with banks, notably in To achieve these ambitious targets, it is important Spain, Italy and our new market-leading agreement that we continue to invest in ways to reach new customers, with Akbank in Turkey.
Growth prospects across Europe whether by direct sales, bancassurance, independent agents remain excellent.
In particular, bancassurance In North America, our presence took a step change has proved to be a very successful channel for us.
During the when we bought AmerUs in 2006.
Overnight we went course of 2007 we signed multiple new agreements from a business on the margin of the US market to with partners in the UK, Europe and Asia Pacific regions, one that was five times bigger and right at the heart giving us access to over 50 million potential new of an important part of the savings sector.
Our relationship management and partnering baby-boomer generation heading for retirement, expertise remains a core competence of Aviva.
we see exciting further potential.
Our presence in Asia Pacific is growing fast, and we Efficiency want it to be even bigger.
We have good businesses in Alongside our growth targets, we have also announced Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia, and have made new cost savings initiatives.
These aim to save 350 million a great start with joint venture partnerships in India and by 2009 from our UK and mature European businesses.
We have now entered new markets in Malaysia During 2007 we successfully achieved the UK cost and and Taiwan, and recently announced our entry into the efficiency targets we set in 2006, realising annualised South Korean market.
We have now also realised the One Aviva, twice the value signals our plan to integration savings announced when we acquired AmerUs increase growth and improve efficiency.
I am delighted towards the end of 2006. to be leading Aviva at such an important stage of its development, and am confident that we have created an excellent platform for future success.
Financial results Andrew Moss On an EEV basis, our pre-tax operating profit of Group chief executive 3,286 million 2006 restated: 3,251 million reflects the strength of our diversified business model.
Return on equity shareholders funds was 11.3% 2006: 13.1%.
Earnings per share based on IFRS total return was 49.2 pence 2006: 87.5 pence mainly reflecting the impact of adverse weather and market conditions in 2007.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Business review continued: 8 United Kingdom Dear Shareholder, In 2007 Norwich Union Life began to deliver on the one Aviva, twice the value agenda and realise the full potential of our scale position within the UK market.
The business delivered record sales volumes for the second year despite tougher market conditions while at the same time improving customer service and creating value from our existing business through the reduction of costs and improved customer retention.
Mark Hodges Chief executive, Norwich Union Life To realise the potential in one Aviva, twice the value, we are transforming our UK general insurance business to improve the underlying performance of the portfolio and to be cost leaders in order to deliver benefits of scale consistent with our market leading position.
Our strategy is to focus on insurance fundamentals to maximise returns through the insurance cycle.
This means disciplined underwriting and pricing, controlling the impact of claims inflation and providing excellent customer service.
Igal Mayer Chief executive, Norwich Union Insurance Morley is entering an exciting phase as it Progress in 2007 plays an integral part in Avivas strategic priority of building a global asset management We received a three star rating in the Life & business to be known as Aviva Investors.
Pension and the Investment Provider categories The new businesses will be led by a global of the Financial Adviser Service Awards.
executive team and includes Morleys UK Our operational review announced in and international businesses, Aviva Gestion September 2006 has delivered the targeted DActifs in France and Aviva Capital Management in North America.
250 million of annualised savings at a Alain Dromer Chief executive, Morley Fund Management and Aviva Investors cost of 250 million.
In March 2007, our life operation announced a partnership with Swiss Re to outsource the Standing from left to right: Igal Mayer, Mark Hodges and Alain Dromer.
administration of almost three million policies, migration has commenced and is expected to complete in early 2009.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 9 Total sales Operating profit 2,000 20,000 1,800 1,600 1,400 15,000 1,200 1,000 10,000 800 600 5,000 5000 400 General insurance 200 Investment sales IFRS operating profit Life and Pensions EEV operating profit 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 2005 2006 2007 In 2007, despite the market becoming progressively Life EEV operating return increased strongly by 15% to tougher with rises in interest rates, a slowdown in the 864 million 2006: 744 million benefiting from higher housing market and stock market volatility, Norwich Union new business contribution, increased expected return, Life delivered record sales for the second year running.
lower expenses and improved customer retention.
Total sales, including investment sales, were up 6% General insurance and health operating profit of to 14,406 million 2006: 13,601 million, driven by 433 million 2006: 1,118 million includes a contribution significant increases in sales of individual annuities, of 53 million 2006: 37 million from our captive bonds and collective investments.
Our bancassurance reinsurance operations and health business.
NUI operating joint venture with Royal Bank of Scotland Group also profit of 380 million 2006: 1,081 million was significantly delivered a second consecutive year of record results impacted by adverse weather in the year, with the summer with substantial growth in both sales and margin.
flooding and storms in January 2007 adversely affecting Norwich Union Insurance has experienced a very profit by 475 million 2006: 75 million benefit.
The tough market conditions are Our combined operating ratio rose to 106% 2006: 95%.
reflected in net written premiums which have fallen by Excluding the adverse weather, the ratio would have been 3% to 5,440 million 2006: 5,583 million.
We continue to prudently manage our reserves to insurance markets, we have continued to use our leading avoid future adverse claims experience.
Our 2007 operating position to provide rating leadership in the current very profit benefited from 430 million 2006: 385 million competitive marketplace.
In the year, the homeowner rate in respect of prior years.
Of this total 215 million is increased by 7% 2006: 3%, while in personal motor, exceptional in nature 2006: 220 million.
rating has been broadly in line with claims inflation The Morley group overall performed strongly in 2007 at 6% 2006: average increase of 5%.
In November, against a background of volatility in financial markets and we implemented rate increases averaging 3.5% across concern about the collapse of the US sub-prime mortgage all commercial lines, targeted at smaller risks and market, with fund management IFRS operating profit underperforming segments.
Morley announcing Find the Fisherman an asset management campaign JV with COFCO in October Morley has created a fund management joint We believe that all companies should be venture in China with COFCO.
We plan to use taking steps to return unclaimed assets this as a platform for developing a substantial to their rightful owners.
The Find the asset management business in China and Fisherman campaign was launched in January have already opened an office in Shanghai.
2007, to track down fishermen who worked The Chinese sector has grown rapidly in recent on the fishing fleets around the UK during years and is expected to increase dramatically the 60s and 70s who had not claimed their over the next decade.
This joint venture marks pensions.
The campaign was a resounding the next step in Morleys expansion in the success, generating around 10,000 telephone Asia Pacific region.
enquiries from the public, enabling 6,000 policies to be traced and the return of For more information visit 2.8 million to customers or their families.
cn Trace a policy by calling 0800 152465 or visit www.
com existingcustomer trace-policies index m m Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Business review continued: 10 Europe Aviva Europe is committed to delivering the benefits of one Aviva by capitalising on our scale to achieve further growth and generate capital.
With extensive resources and knowledge in the region, we have proved our ability to use regional experience and capability to add value to our distributors and partners through developing new products and distribution initiatives throughout Europe to meet customers needs.
Over the year our businesses in southern Europe have grown strongly and further increased market share.
The distribution landscape in Spain and Italy is dominated by bancassurance and we have made significant steps in both markets, strengthening existing partnerships and signing new agreements with leading banks in both countries.
Across northern Europe, our joint venture with Allied Irish Banks and the enhancements to our broker channel have led to an increase in market share in Ireland.
We increased sales in France and the Netherlands despite difficult market conditions.
In France, we successfully worked with the AFER association to modernise the core savings product and sales responded strongly.
In the Netherlands we have grown sales through our success in the group pensions market.
Our objective is to increase market share in these countries through the segmentation of our customer base, Progress in 2007 the provision of superior and targeted service and advice, cross-selling and the continued We successfully integrated the life business enhancement of product offerings.
of Ark Life and Hibernian and completed In central and eastern Europe, sales have the launch of a single new business platform grown significantly in Poland reflecting the which further cements our relationship excellent pension sales and the development with AIB.
of our bancassurance partnerships and popular new products.
In Turkey, we have We continued to focus on higher-margin unit-linked products in France with the launch transformed the business by merging our life and pensions business with AK Emeklilik, of a new AFER fund.
Elsewhere across the We generated increased sales in the Netherlands region, our businesses continue to grow through focus on SME pension contracts and strongly and are well positioned to continue developing white label products.
to capture the exciting growth opportunities We grew faster than the market in northern in these emerging markets.
Europe where low growth was expected in 2007.
Completed merger in Turkey creating AvivaSA which will contribute to growth in central and eastern Europe.
Aviva Europe continued to deliver profitable long Long-term savings EEV operating profit was term savings sales growth, with volumes 19% higher 30% higher at 1,543 million 2006: 1,171 million, at 16,486 million 2006: 13,731 million.
Life and primarily due to favourable lapse and mortality pensions sales grew by 15% to 14,914 million 2006: experience in France and Poland and strong new business 12,840 million, reflecting sales of group pensions in contributions in the Netherlands due to higher interest the Netherlands, the continued success of our business rates.
The improved result in Ireland followed a loss in Ireland and a resilient performance in France.
Investment in 2006 which resulted from an exceptional level of sales grew by 74% to 1,572 million 2006: 891 million, operating assumption changes.
driven by strong inflows in the Netherlands and Poland.
General insurance profitability remains strong Our general and health insurance businesses across the region, with a general insurance COR of performed well in markets where competition is 89% 2006: 90% and operating profit of 442 million intensifying, with net written premiums of 3,233 million 2006: 417 million.
We continue to innovate and 2006: 3,287 million, reflecting increased pressure are making good progress in developing our on-line on rates in Ireland and lower premium income from proposition in Ireland.
Fund management operating profits the health equalisation fund in the Netherlands.
on an IFRS basis, at 60 million 2006: 73 million were lower than the prior period reflecting lower performance fees in Delta Lloyd Asset Management following the exceptional levels earned in 2006.
Hibernian going Direct motor insurance the extra mile launched in Poland using group expertise In Ireland, staff looked at how they could We are very excited by the potential of the make a difference to customer service by direct motor insurance market in Poland.
changing behaviours and going the extra We have a proven track record in launching mile.
We focused on a different theme and running successful direct motor insurance each month, such as improving the way businesses in other European markets we handle phone calls and reducing the including the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands, amount of jargon in our communications.
and we used this expertise together with The programme emphasised Hibernians our already sizeable customer base in Poland commitment to being a leader in customer and highly recognised brands to give us a service within the industry.
significant advantage in the market.
For more information visit www.
ie For more information visit www.
pl m m Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Business review continued: 12 North America Dear Shareholder, Aviva North America is an exciting place to be.
The Americas region is of major global importance being home to some of the worlds largest and richest economies with almost half of world general insurance premiums and a quarter of life premiums.
Our focus on this important geographical region provides us with significant opportunities to drive relentless profitable growth in our life business through the huge demand for retirement products from the baby-boomer generation and deliver improved and sustained profits from our general insurance business.
The US is home to our rapidly growing life business and our general insurance business is based in Canada.
These great businesses currently serve their home markets and we are exploring possible cross-border selling opportunities across the North American region.
Strengthening the Aviva brand across the North America region is a strategy that will figure prominently in our growth ambitions.
We will continue to deliver high-value propositions for our customers and, as a leader in our sector, will set high standards.
We shall excel in product innovation and be disciplined about expense management.
Were in the right markets, with the Progress in 2007 right products, at the right time.
We have The operations located in Boston were achieved terrific growth in the last year successfully combined with those of the and I am confident that our growth and former AmerUs companies.
profitability will continue to enhance shareholder value into the future.
We achieved a ratings upgrade from AM Best which will act as a catalyst Tom Godlasky Chief executive, North America for further growth in the United States.
Achieved exceptional satisfaction scores from our brokers in Canada with 88% responding that they would recommend Aviva to their customers.
Our Canadian business is the only insurer in the world to have achieved accreditation by the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 13 Total sales Operating profit 400 5,000 5000 350 4,000 300 250 3,000 200 2,000 150 100 1,000 50 General insurance IFRS operating profit Life and Pensions EEV operating profit 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 2005 2006 2007 North American life new business and general insurance Regional EEV operating profit for North America premiums grew to 5,014 million 2006: 2,273 million.
was up 131% to 408 million 2006: 183 million, Aviva USA has had a record year with sales of now accounting for 11% of the Aviva group.
3,602 million pro forma 2006: 2,821 million up 39% The increase in Aviva USA EEV operating profit on a pro forma basis following the acquisition of the to 255 million 2006: 32 million reflects the benefit former AmerUs group at the end of 2006.
The excellent of the AmerUs acquisition and improved new business performance was achieved through the introduction of profits following the excellent sales performance.
new products and our expanding distribution network.
During the year, our total assets grew by 10% to Our annuity sales increased 47% on a pro forma basis to 20 billion.
The operations located in Boston have now 2,600 million pro forma 2006: 1,921 million and other been successfully combined with those of the former sales grew by 21% on a pro forma basis to 1,002 million AmerUs companies, with all of the goals associated with pro forma 2006: 900 million, including funding the integration of those operations met, including key agreement sales of 429 million pro forma 2006: financial targets of achieving 23 million of annualised 330 million which are large corporate transactions.
savings at a cost of 25 million.
General insurance net written premiums were Aviva Canada operating profit improved to 1,412 million 2006: 1,389 million, an increase 154 million 2006: 148 million which is a good of 4% on a local currency basis, reflecting growth in result in challenging market conditions.
A reduction both personal and commercial lines.
In personal lines, in underwriting profit was offset by an increase in our premiums increased by 3% in a market with flat rates investment return resulting from higher fixed income in Ontario and auto reform impacting several provinces.
yields and higher average asset balances.
Net written premiums in commercial lines increased by 6% in a softening market.
ThinkFirst and Aviva Product innovation Canada Insurance Wellness for Life Safety for Canadian Kids Aviva Canada launched a signature partnership An innovative new product is our in 2007 with ThinkFirst, a charitable organisation Wellness for Life programme, which has devoted to the prevention of injury in children been developed with the world-renowned and young people.
Mayo Clinic, rewarding consumers for leading a healthy lifestyle.
Our sponsorship over the next two years will help strengthen existing local ThinkFirst chapters Customers have the opportunity to reduce and assist in the creation of new ones.
the cost of their life insurance by meeting some wellness-oriented criteria, such as having The partnership will provide volunteering regular physical examinations by a doctor.
opportunities for Aviva employees and will connect Aviva and our employees with Wellness for Life is consistent with our the concept of protection in the community commitment to improving the lives of at large.
For more information visit For more information visit www.
ca m m Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Business review continued: 14 Asia Pacific Dear Shareholder, There are huge opportunities in the Asia Pacific region to grow Avivas business over the coming years.
By continuing to expand our portfolio of long-term savings, protection and takaful insurance products across more countries in the region, by continuing to offer better service to customers and by continuing to invest in our people, we plan to achieve our targets and increase our share of the group result.
While we are exploring new markets in the region, we are also focusing on achieving our full potential in our existing businesses, particularly those where we have just begun operations.
One of our main strengths lies in the one Aviva, twice the value operating model which enables us to share skills and services across the region and group.
For example, we are investigating opportunities to implement our very successful Navigator product in more countries.
When entering new markets we can use expertise from elsewhere in the region, adapting tried and tested distribution approaches to the local market and establish ourselves quickly.
We have already achieved rapid growth in Asia Pacific.
The Aviva brand is becoming well known, our business model is successful, and we are confident that we can continue Progress in 2007 to build on this strong base.
New bancassurance deals were signed Simon Machell Chief executive, Asia Pacific in Malaysia, India and Sri Lanka.
We continue to strengthen our relationships with key brokers and other partners by acquiring strategic stakes in businesses in Australia and Malaysia, acquiring DollarDex in Singapore and entering into a JV partnership with First Financial Holdings company in Taiwan.
In the year we hosted a workshop covering multi-channel distribution, product development and service delivery, with the aim to promote knowledge and skills sharing across the region.
Aviva USA attended and presented on equity indexed annuities to delegates across the region.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 15 Total sales Operating profit 4,000 100 3,500 3,000 80 2,500 60 2,000 1,500 40 1,000 20 General insurance 500 Investment sales IFRS operating profit Life and Pensions EEV operating profit 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 2005 2006 2007 Aviva Asia Pacific continues to achieve a strong rate Life EEV operating profit for the region increased by of growth with total new business sales 60% higher 6% to 91 million 2006: 86 million, with an at 4,089 million 2006: 2,546 million driven improvement in new business contribution to 62 million primarily by strong Navigator sales across the region.
2006: 43 million reflecting the strong sales performance In Australia, total sales grew by 46% to 2,400 million in the year.
New business margin improved to 4.3% 2006: 1,600 million following strategic investment in 2006: 4.4%.
key independent financial adviser groups and favourable Our performance to date demonstrates the changes to superannuation legislation.
Within this total, effectiveness of multi-channel distribution.
Leveraging this life and pension sales increased 44% to 439 million core capability in 2007, we have increased our presence 2006: 297 million reflecting growth in protection in China to eight provinces, sales have increased in India business and a strongly performing retail investment sector.
through bancassurance partnerships, ongoing expansion Sales for the rest of Asia Pacific of 1,689 million of the direct sales force and the addition of new branches 2006: 946 million continued to grow as a result of our in the year and we have established a further two new expanding distribution and broadening geographical joint ventures in Malaysia and Taiwan, giving Aviva presence.
Life and pension sales were up 51% to access to nine million potential new customers across 990 million 2006: 685 million.
In Singapore, sales these markets.
grew through our strong relationships with key brokers Operating profit in fund management was and those in Hong Kong through the continued 15 million 2006: 9 million mainly due to higher good performance of our partnership with the banking funds under administration following the Navigator group DBS.
Australia Riskfirst, China Aviva-COFCO changing the way the life recognised for foresight insurance industry operates with best channel strategy award Avivas new Riskfirst system, the first In an industry-wide ceremony, Aviva-COFCO, signature-free online underwriting platform our joint venture in China, was given the in Australia, is changing the way the life Best Channel Strategy award by China insurance industry operates.
The online Insurance Marketing, a national magazine process enables faster completion of life for Chinese business professionals.
insurance policies which has improved This recognises the companys foresight and advisers turnaround time by a third and initiative in creating a centre for the training benefited relationships with their clients.
The Riskfirst applications accounted for For more information visit 25% of new business just three months www.
au m m Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Business review continued: 16 Finance Dear Shareholder, During my first year as group finance director there has been significant activity across the Aviva finance community and our major achievements are set out below.
We have made significant progress on the development of the global finance strategy this year.
This will enable us to lay firm foundations for future growth, meet future regulatory requirements and prepare for financial reporting change.
In 2007 we focused on two areas: the creation of robust governance to secure the timely and efficient delivery of the strategy: and the development of the policies, frameworks and guidelines that we will use in 2008 to deliver and embed the change group-wide.
At the end of August, I chaired the first finance directors forum since the creation of our regional structure.
Its representatives come from every business and region and have a key role in defining our finance agenda.
Our first meeting focused on managing our considerable finance talent developing leaders for the future and finance professionals with the skills and experience to support our challenging plans.
The global finance conference at the beginning of October gave the finance leadership team the chance to see the Progress in 2007 benefits of working together to deliver financial clarity and simplicity across the We completed our work on the individual group.
We are committed to creating capital assessment ICA of the group for 2006. one finance team and to play our part Standard & Poors have reaffirmed their in achieving one Aviva, twice the value.
rating of our core subsidiaries as AA AA Philip Scott very strong, including upgrading the Group finance director Aviva USA rating to AA.
The risk management framework and guidance was rolled out across the group during 2007.
We introduced a new approach to reporting our operating profit on an IFRS basis.
We continue to participate in development of IFRS Phase II.
We have made progress in delivering and embedding the Global Finance Strategy across the group.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 17 Key Performance Indicators Earnings per share IFRS Group operating profit before tax 90 3,000 80 2,500 70 60 2,000 50 1,500 40 30 1,000 20 500 10 IFRS EEV 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 2005 2006 2007 Group operating profit before tax Earnings per share We aim to achieve steady sustainable growth in To demonstrate our commitment to our vision of one our operating profit, both on an EEV and IFRS basis.
Aviva, twice the value, we have announced our ambition In seeking to achieve this growth, we continue to adopt to double IFRS earnings per share by 2012.
This ambition strict financial management disciplines underpinned by is based on total IFRS return, including investment volatility strong corporate governance.
and non-operating items over the weighted average Our EEV operating profit remained strong at number of shares.
On an IFRS Our IFRS earnings per share for 2007 was basis, operating profit was 2,228 million 2006 restated: 49.2 pence 2006: 87.5 pence.
This reflects the reduction 2,609 million.
These results reflect strong performances in operating profit, mainly due to lower results in the in the life segment offset by lower results in the general general insurance segment as a result of adverse weather insurance segment as a result of adverse weather and in the UK and increased competition, and net adverse increased competition.
short-term fluctuations and economic assumption changes due to closing market conditions.
Capital, solvency and risk management We maintain an efficient capital structure using a combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and borrowings.
This structure is consistent with our risk prole and the regulatory and market requirements on our business.
The group has a regulatory obligation to have positive solvency on a regulatory IGD basis at all times.
The groups risk management processes ensure adequate review of this measure.
At 31 December 2007, the estimated excess regulatory capital was 3.1 billion 31 December 2006: 3.5 billion.
Aviva faces a wide variety of risks from our business operations which we categorise into five groups: market, insurance, credit, liquidity and operational risks.
In 2007, there has been concern globally around credit risk.
Credit risk exposures Shareholders equity holdings by currency 1 1 % 4 1 AAA 30 2 AA 16 3 3 A 13 4 BBB 6 5 Speculative Grade 1 % 6 Not rated 34 2 1 Sterling 27 Total 100 2 6 2 Euro 52 Note: Not Rated includes 3 US dollar 9 5 mortgages and other debt 4 Other 12 4 that does not attract an Total 100 3 external rating.
Credit risk Shareholders equity Aviva holds very large quantities of high quality bonds, We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign primarily to match our liability to make guaranteed currency exchange risk.
We generally do not hedge payments to policyholders.
Some credit risk is taken, partly foreign currency revenues, preferring to retain capital to boost returns to policyholders and partly to optimise the locally to support business growth and meet regulatory risk return profile for shareholders.
The risks are consistent requirements.
with the products we offer and the related investment mandates, and are in line with our risk appetite.
Operating profit m pence Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Business review continued: 18 Employees and responsibility Dear Shareholder, 2007 has been a year of great progress in Avivas employee and responsibility agendas in support of our one Aviva, twice the value vision.
Progress included the creation of a regional structure for Aviva, international moves of senior leaders, the effective implementation of our people strategy and improved visibility for corporate social responsibility CSR.
All these activities have strengthened Aviva and provide an excellent foundation for further progress in 2008.
We have improved our talent management processes, the way we lead our people, and are building Aviva as an engaging place to work.
This was supported by a 70% 2006: 66% participation rate in the global employee survey, which showed strong and improving results, and in which 70% of participants agreed that Aviva is a great place to work.
Our CSR plans are key to our business strategy and we made further progress in 2007.
Key initiatives included our carbon offsetting and carbon reduction programme, building employee awareness and engagement in all aspects of CSR, including volunteering.
This review is an update on our progress and achievements to date.
It represents a level of performance of which we can be proud, and one on which we can build Objectives further to meet our plans to be an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.
Talking Talent Manage talent to maximise productivity and fulfilment of objectives for John Ainley Group human resources director Aviva and the individual.
Leading People Recruit and develop leaders who excite their people to exceptional performance, bringing to life the relationship between engaged employees and delighted customers.
Experiencing Aviva Build Aviva as a strong employment brand by delivering a great employee experience.
Embedding our CSR vision Act responsibly for the long term in how we do business, to help meet our ambition of being the worlds most trusted savings, investment and insurance provider.
Managing and steering performance on business ethics, values, environment and diversity is central in our interactions with customers, our people, community and suppliers.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 19 Avivas CO emissions Employee Survey 2007 2 120,000 Improvement against 2006 Survey % 2.0 Communication 7 100,000 Empowerment and innovation 6 1.5 80,000 Talent management 5 60,000 1.0 Values 4 Engagement 4 40,000 0.5 Diversity 4 20,000 Leadership 4 0 0 Customer focus 2 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 CO tonnes 2 Efficiency and effectiveness 2 CO offset 2 CO tonnes per employee 2 New businesses In a continued effort to create a strong annual mechanism In 2007, our total CO emissions increased, mainly due 2 for employees feedback, we carried out our global to the inclusion of emissions data, from our new business employee climate survey for the third consecutive year.
in Aviva USA, Aviva Global Services, Sri Lanka and Russia.
We had a strong overall participation rate of 70% From our existing businesses, emissions have shown an 2006: 66% with four business units achieving a 100% 11% decrease 13,555 tonnes, reflecting significant focus participation.
The results showed improvement on all on energy efficiency and resourcing renewable energy survey categories and improved performance against our currently 61% 2006: 55% of our electricity worldwide external benchmark of performance in global financial is purchased from zero emission sources.
We offset our services companies.
70% of the employees who remaining emissions on a retrospective basis.
We began responded consider Aviva a great place to work.
this process in 2006, compensating for the carbon output Our senior management pay is linked to employee of our consumption of non-renewable sourced electricity, survey results through clear targets on leadership and gas and oil from buildings and business travel, including engagement.
We also pay special attention to actionair, car and train, across all of our global operations.
planning using the results: the businesses, regions and group draw up plans to address employee issues and to build on our existing strengths.
Progress on these plans is then shared with employees before the next survey cycle.
UN Global Innovation Focusing on Avivas Award for diversity carbon offset programme: treadle pumps Aviva was recognised for its international As part of Avivas carbon offset programme, diversity programmes at the World Diversity we are involved with a treadle pump project in Leadership Summit, hosted by the United Uttar Pradesh, Northern India.
Treadle pumps, Nations Global Compact in May 2007.
The which are used for irrigation, are human judging panel of World Diversity Leadership powered, non-polluting and cost effective.
Council, a peer group of corporate diversity They typically replace diesel pumps which experts, selected Aviva for its innovative would be rented by the farmers at a high cost, approach in embedding diversity within the limiting use due to affordability.
Its Think Again and Respect Diversity irrigation the treadle pump enables benefits toolkit was noted in this award.
crop production, having a spectacular impact on the income of the household.
tonnes tonnes per employee Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Board of directors 20 1 7 Andrew Moss Mary Francis CBE Group chief executive Independent non-executive director Age 49 Age 59 Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Joined as group finance Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Currently senior independent director in May 2004 and became group chief executive in July 2007. director of Centrica plc utilities, a non-executive director of Alliance & Previously director finance, risk management and operations in Leicester plc banking, a non-executive director of St Modwen Properties Lloyds insurance and formerly held a number of senior management plc property development and a director of Almeida Theatre Company positions at HSBC plc banking.
A member of the advisory board of the National Consumer Council and Governor of the Pensions Policy Institute.
Formerly Director Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
General of the Association of British Insurers, non-executive director of the 2 Bank of England and Fund Distribution Limited and a senior civil servant.
Philip Scott FIA Chairman of the risk and regulatory committee and a member of the Group finance director remuneration and audit committees.
Age 54 8 Richard Karl Goeltz Appointed to the Board in May 2000 and became group finance Independent non-executive director director in July 2007.
Joined Norwich Union in 1973 and held a number of senior positions before joining the Norwich Union board in 1993.
Age 65 Formerly, responsible for the groups insurance businesses outside Europe and Morley, the groups UK fund management operations.
Currently a Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director non-executive director of Diageo plc drinks.
of the Warnaco Group Inc clothing, Delta Air Lines, Inc. transport, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac financial 3 services, New Germany Fund investment trust and a director of The Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE London School of Economics and Political Science.
Former chief financial Chairman officer of American Express Company financial services, NatWest Group plc banking and The Seagram Company Ltd drinks and a former Age 65 member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Appointed to the Board in January 2005 and became chairman in Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the 1 January 2006.
Currently chairman of Aegis Group plc media services, audit committee.
an independent non-executive director of BG Group plc utility and an independent non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
9 Carole Piwnica Former chairman of KPMG International auditors, former deputy chairman of Group 4 Securicor plc security services and a former Independent non-executive director independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery PLC Age 50 drinks and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Chairman of the Board and nomination committee and member of the Appointed to the Board in May 2003.
A member of the New York and corporate social responsibility committee.
Paris bars, practising law in Europe and the United States specialising in private equity and EU regulatory matters.
Currently a non-executive 4 director of Toepfer International GmbH trading, Dairy Crest Group plc Nikesh Arora dairy foods and a member of the biotech advisory board of Monsanto Independent non-executive director biotechnology.
Former non-executive vice-chairman of governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc agricultural industrial and S A Spadel N. V. Age 40 food and beverages and former chairman of Amylum Group agricultural industrial.
Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Currently President, Europe Middle East and Africa Operations at Google consumer services.
Formerly chief Member of the audit, remuneration and corporate social marketing officer and a member of the management board at T-Mobile responsibility committees.
communications and held senior management positions at Deutsche Telekom, Fidelity Investments financial services and Putnam Investments 10 Russell Walls financial services.
Independent non-executive director Member of the risk and regulatory committee.
Age 64 5 Guillermo fide la Dehesa Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director Independent non-executive director of Signet Group plc retail and chairman of its audit committee.
Chairman of Delphic Diagnostics Limited medical and treasurer and trustee of Age 66 The British Red Cross.
Former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Appointed to the Board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich Union Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former as a non-executive director in 1999.
Currently non-executive chairman senior independent non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc of Avivas operations in Spain, a director of Campofrio consumer and transport and Hilton International Group plc leisure and a former nonof Banco Santander banking and also International Advisor of Goldman executive director of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company transport.
Chairman for the Centre of Economic Policy Research CEPR and of Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the risk and regulatory the Instituto fide Empresa Business School and a member of the Group of and nomination committees.
Thirty consultative group on international economic and monetary affairs.
A former deputy general manager of the Bank of Spain and former 11 Scott Wheway Secretary of State of Finance in Spain.
Independent non-executive director Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
Age 41 6 Wim Dik Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Former director of Senior independent non-executive director The Boots Company plc now known as The Boots Company Limited pharmacy, managing director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots plc.
Age 69 Formerly held a number of senior management positions at Tesco plc retail services.
Appointed to the Board in December 1999.
Currently chairman of the supervisory board of Zesko Holding B. V. telecommunications and Tele Member of the remuneration and corporate social responsibility committees Atlas N. V. information systems, a non-executive director of Unilever N. V. and Unilever plc consumer and of LogicaCMG plc computer services.
Graham Jones Former Minister for Foreign Trade in the Netherlands.
Former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven B. V. consumer and former chairman and Group company secretary chief executive officer of KPN Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
Former chairman of the supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and a former member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail services and ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee and member of the risk and regulatory and nomination committees.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 21 1 7 2 8 3 9 4 10 5 11 6 Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 22 Summary financial statements These statements are aimed at giving shareholders a Dividend summary of the position and performance of Aviva.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of They do not however, contain all the information to allow 21.10 pence per share 2006: 19.18 pence which, as complete an understanding of the Group as would be together with the interim dividend of 11.90 pence per provided by the full audited Annual Report and Accounts.
share 2006: 10.82 pence, produces a total dividend for A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts, which the year of 33.0 pence per share 2006: 30.00 pence.
contains an unqualified auditors opinion, is available on The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2007 was the Aviva internet site at www.
com or free of charge 801 million 2006: 693 million, leaving 472 million from Equiniti, at the address at the end of this document.
to be transferred to reserves 2006: 1,468 million transferred to reserves, after tax, minority interest, preference dividends and payments in respect of the direct 2007 accounts capital instrument.
The final dividend for 2007 will be paid The summary financial statements on page 24 and 25 on 16 May 2008 to all holders of ordinary shares on the have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies Register of Members at the close of business on 28 March set out in the Groups 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme will be The consolidated income statement has been presented available to shareholders in respect of the payment of the on both a European Embedded Value EEV basis and an final dividend.
It is the Companys intention that following International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
the payment of the 2007 final dividend on 16 May 2008 The Group continues to believe that the EEV basis provides the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme will be withdrawn and a better measure of the performance of the life business shareholders will be offered the opportunity to participate than the statutory IFRS basis.
Results of an insurance in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Full details of the new business in any particular year can be affected by plan will be communicated to shareholders will be significant movements in investment values, which communicated to shareholders at this time.
In addition, influence the reported profits before tax.
Therefore, to a local currency payment service will be available to measure the underlying business performance, operating shareholders residing in certain participating countries profit before tax based on longer term rates of investment outside the UK.
Further details of these arrangements can return is used, eliminating the volatility caused by be found in the shareholder services and information on movements in investment values.
As a result, managers page 28 to 30. are encouraged to focus on operational performance and aspects of the business that are under their control.
Directors The following persons served as directors of the Company Summarised directors report during the year: Nikesh Arora appointed 1 July 2007 Annual General Meeting Guillermo fide la Dehesa The 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company will Wim Dik be held on 1 May 2008 at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, Mary Francis London, EC2Y 8DS at 11am.
A separate document Richard Karl Goeltz accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts contains Richard Harvey retired on 11 July 2007 the Notice convening the Meeting and a description of the Andrew Moss business to be conducted thereat.
Carole Piwnica Review of operations Philip Scott Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva Group Lord Sharman of Redlynch of companies.
The principal activities of the Group are Patrick Snowball resigned 8 May 2007 life insurance and long-term savings business, asset Tidjane Thiam appointed 1 May 2007, management and all classes of general insurance carried resigned 21 September 2007 out through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in Russell Walls the United Kingdom, continental Europe and Ireland, Scott Wheway appointed 5 December 2007 North America, Asia and Australia.
The Group also The biographical details of the persons currently serving undertakes motoring services in the UK and Ireland.
as directors appear on page 20.
Details of the Groups operations for the accounting period, its current position and future prospects are The Companys Articles of Association require one-third contained in the Chairmans statement and Group of the directors to retire by rotation each year and also Chief Executives statement and business segment require each director to retire at intervals of not more than overviews on pages 4 to 7. three years.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Lord Sharman, chairman and non-executive director and Andrew Moss and Philip Scott, both executive directors, will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa and Wim Dik who were re-elected by shareholders at last years Annual General Meeting will retire on 31 December 2008, in line with the Boards plans to renew and refresh its composition.
Andrew Moss and Philip Scott are executive directors and each has a service contract with the Company details of which can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Nikesh Arora and Scott Wheway will offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting being the first such meeting after their appointment.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 23 Directors interests and indemnity arrangements Corporate Social Responsibility CSR At no time during the year did any director hold a material Avivas CSR policy and programme continues to take interest in any contract of significance with the Company firmer roots in the business and to generate support or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than an with staff, shareholders and customers.
Avivas CSR indemnity provision between each director and the performance is also highly ranked by growing numbers of Company and service contracts between each executive research agencies and investment houses.
It provides one director and a Group company.
of the pathways by which the Company seeks to achieve its corporate objective to be the financial services provider The Company has purchased and maintained throughout of choice.
Full details of the progress achieved within the the year directors and officers liability insurance in respect CSR programme during the year can be found in Avivas of itself and its directors.
The directors also have the CSR report.
A copy of the printed summary CSR report is benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the available from the Group Company Secretary and the full Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has report may be viewed on www.
executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company and each person who was a Corporate governance director of the Company during the year in respect of The Board of directors is committed to a system of sound liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as corporate governance and to the principles of Good directors of the Company or of associated companies.
Governance and the Code of Best Practice the Combined These indemnities were granted at different times Code.
It is the Boards view that the Company complied according to the law in place at the time and where fully throughout the accounting period with the provisions relevant, are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code, apart from defined by Section 309B of the Companies Act 1985. a period of 23 days in January 2007, during which time These indemnities were in force throughout the year and the Nomination Committee did not contain a majority of are currently in force.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
ii For former directors, the amounts disclosed relate to their awards held at the date of resignation from the Board.
Tidjane Thiam was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2007 and resigned from the Board with effect from 21 September 2007.
Patrick Snowball resigned from the Board with effect from 8 May 2007.
Richard Harvey resigned from the Board with effect from 11 July 2007.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the executive directors include shares held in trust under the Companys All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP.
Bonus Plan Awards relates to entitlements to shares arising through the current, or former, Aviva Bonus Plans.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
Long-Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plans which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Summary financial statements continued 24 Summarised consolidated income statement Independent auditors statement 2007 2006 to the members of Aviva plc m m We have examined the Groups summary financial Premiums written net of reinsurance statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 which and investment sales comprise the summarised consolidated income statement, Long-term business 18,764 16,532 summarised consolidated statement of recognised income General insurance and health premiums 10,569 10,702 and expenses IFRS basis, summarised consolidated 29,333 27,234 statement of changes in equity IFRS basis, summarised Pre-tax operating profit consolidated balance sheet IFRS basis and supplemental Long-term business EEV operating return 2,753 2,033 Fund management operating profit 90 96 balance sheet information EEV basis.
General insurance and health operating profit 1,033 1,686 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Other operations 70 23 a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Regional operating profit 3,806 3,792 Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Corporate centre, group debt costs and other interest 520 541 might state to the Companys members those matters we 1 Operating profit EEV basis 3,286 3,251 are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Adjustment to report the profits of our long-term insurance, fund management no other purpose.
and other operations on an IFRS basis 1,058 642 To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or IFRS operating profit before tax attributable 2 to shareholders profits restated 2,228 2,609 assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Investment return variances and economic assumption and the Companys members as a body, for our audit changes on long-term business 15 401 work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Short-term fluctuation in return on investments backing general insurance and health business 184 149 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Impairment of goodwill non-long-term The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual business subsidiaries 10 94 Review in accordance with applicable law.
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 103 64 Profit on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates 49 222 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the Integration and restructuring costs 153 246 consistency of the summary financial statements within Profit before tax attributable to shareholders the Annual Review with the full annual accounts, Directors profits IFRS basis 1,842 2,977 report, Directors remuneration report and its compliance Tax 337 588 with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Profit after tax attributable to shareholders 1,505 2,389 Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Summarised consolidated statement of recognised We also read the other information contained in the Annual income and expenses IFRS basis Review and consider the implications for our report if we 2007 2006 become aware of any apparent misstatements or material m m inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
Fair value gains, net of transfers to income statement 210 210 Basis of opinion Actuarial gains losses on pension schemes 587 114 Foreign exchange rate and other movements 739 346 We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin Aggregate tax effect 179 5 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial Net income expense recognised directly in equity 937 255 statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in Profit after tax attributable to shareholders 1,505 2,389 the United Kingdom.
Total recognised income and expense for the year 2,442 2,134 Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full annual financial statements, Directors report and Directors remuneration report of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and comply with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 27 February 2008 Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 25 Summarised consolidated statement of changes Supplemental balance sheet information EEV basis in equity IFRS basis 2007 2006 m m 2007 2006 m m Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc IFRS basis 12,849 11,176 Balance at 1 January 14,064 11,092 Adjustment to other reserves 290 462 Total recognised income and expense for the year 2,442 2,134 Additional retained profit on an EEV basis 7,694 6,817 Dividends and appropriations 871 762 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders Issue of share capital for the acquisition of AmerUs 892 of Aviva plc EEV basis 20,253 17,531 Other issue of share capital, net of transaction costs 48 43 Preference share capital and direct capital instrument 1,190 1,190 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 301 203 Minority interests 3,131 2,137 Capital contributions from minority shareholders 307 397 Total equity EEV basis 24,574 20,858 Minority share of dividends declared in the year 66 75 Minority interest in acquired disposed subsidiaries 317 92 Approved by the Board on 27 February 2008 Reserves credit for equity compensation plans 50 48 Philip Scott Total equity 16,592 14,064 Group finance director Minority interests 2,553 1,698 Balance at 31 December 14,039 12,366 Notes 1.
Before tax and adjusting items.
2006 has been restated to reflect the change in definition of Group 3 operating profit on an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Operating earnings per share Basic EEV basis 76.5p 79.2p basis.
IFRS operating profit is one the key indicators of performance for 4 Total earnings per share Basic EEV basis 70.1p 105.1p the Group and we have changed its definition to provide greater clarity 3 Operating earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 53.2p 70.1p and insight into the factors driving our results, in particular the impact 4 Total earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 49.2p 87.5p of economic volatility from the underlying business performance.
5 This has also had a small impact on EEV operating profit.
Net asset value per ordinary share IFRS basis 490p 436p 5 Net asset value per ordinary share EEV basis 772p 683p 3.
Operating earnings per share is based on the operating profit on either an EEV or IFRS basis, after tax, minority interests and preference dividends.
Summarised consolidated balance sheet IFRS basis 4.
Total earnings per share is based on the EEV or IFRS profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders.
Net asset value per ordinary share is calculated based on equity Assets shareholders funds.
Goodwill 3,082 2,910 Additional value of in-force business and intangible assets 3,197 2,728 Interest in, and loans to, joint ventures and associates 3,782 3,690 Investment properties, property and equipment 16,019 16,027 Financial investments 215,368 204,278 Other assets 62,498 52,101 Cash and cash equivalents 15,774 13,117 Total assets 319,720 294,851 Capital and reserves Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc 12,849 11,176 Preference share capital 200 200 Direct capital instrument 990 990 Minority interests 2,553 1,698 Total equity 16,592 14,064 Liabilities Gross liability for insurance and investment contracts 251,284 232,588 Unallocated divisible surplus 6,785 9,465 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 3,980 3,810 Borrowings 12,657 12,137 Other liabilities 28,422 22,787 Total liabilities 303,128 280,787 Total equity and liabilities 319,720 294,851 Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 Summary financial statements continued 26 A pension entitlement.
Summary directors remuneration report Below is a summary of the information contained in the A long-term discretionary savings plan, used primarily for Directors remuneration report which shareholders will be employees who can no longer accrue pension benefits asked to approve at the forthcoming Annual General or whose benefits are restricted under the staff pension Meeting AGM.
The Directors remuneration report, scheme, called the Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan contained in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts ACAP.
for 2007, provides full details of the Companys A car allowance, private medical insurance and remuneration policy, practices, pension arrangements and participation in the Companys all-employee share plans.
incentive plans, including a description of the performance conditions which apply to the incentive plans, as well as Awards granted under the LTIP plan are subject to details of all the awards and options held by the directors.
meeting performance conditions based on Total This summary also contains an overview of a new element Shareholder Return TSR and return on capital employed of remuneration to be called the one Aviva, twice the RoCE targets.
The TSR performance conditions require value bonus plan.
The plan will be presented for approval Aviva to achieve median or better performance against the to shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
The one Aviva, twice TSR of a peer group of major European financial services the value bonus plan proposes to match a proportion of companies over the three year performance period for shares deferred by senior executives under the existing that element to vest.
RoCE targets are set taking account annual bonus plan to the extent that performance of the Companys three year business plan, trading conditions on IFRS Earnings Per Share growth are met.
conditions and shareholder expectations at the time A copy of the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts is each award is made.
available from the Companys Registrar, Equiniti or All executive directors have a service contract which can www.
be terminated by the Company upon giving 12 months Remuneration policy notice.
Non-executive appointments can be terminated The Remuneration Committees key objectives are to: by either party at any time upon giving one months written notice.
Establish a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate scarce, high quality leaders: Planned Future Changes In 2007, the Committee reviewed the remuneration Promote the achievement of both our annual plans package of Avivas senior executives.
This was against a and our strategic objectives and ambitions by providing background of the Chief Executive, Andrew Moss clear a remuneration package that contains appropriately strategic imperative for the Group to deliver one Aviva, motivating targets: twice the value which will be measured in terms of Align senior executives remuneration with the interests growth in the Companys IFRS Earnings Per Share EPS.
of shareholders and other stakeholders, including No current element of executive remuneration is focused customers and employees.
The review also showed that the potential rewards represented by Avivas long-term incentives The remuneration package currently fall short of that delivered in FTSE 30 and Against this background, the Remuneration Committee FTSE 50 comparator groups for our executive directors.
seeks to ensure that whilst a competitive basic salary is paid, a substantial element of the remuneration package As a result of the review, subject to the outcome of should be closely linked to the performance of the consultation with institutional investors, we will put to business and delivered in the form of shares.
During 2007, shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting a the remuneration package for the Companys executive proposal to introduce a matching element to a proportion directors comprised the following elements: of the shares deferred under the Annual Bonus Plan.
A proportion of the shares deferred under the Annual A basic salary.
Bonus Plan will be matched by up to two shares for each An annual bonus plan to encourage executives to share deferred.
The extent to which the matching shares meet annual targets relating to business and agreed vest will depend upon the Companys EPS IFRS basis personal performance targets.
Two-thirds of any performance over a three year period.
The first award of bonus is paid in the form of shares and deferred matching shares will be made in 2008 subject to approval for three years.
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May.
A long-term incentive plan LTIP to align executives longer term interests with those of shareholders.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 27 Notes 2007 awards In addition to the remuneration set out in the table below 1.
Richard Harveys Annual Bonus award was paid wholly in cash in August 2007 on his retirement from the company.
Mr. Harvey did not receive the following shares were awarded to executive directors in an LTIP award in 2007.
2007 under the Companys incentive plans.
The 2007 Long-Term Incentive award made to Patrick Snowball lapsed granted under the long-term incentive plan will only vest if on his departure from the company in June 2007.
Mr Snowball received certain conditions relating to the Companys performance those Annual Bonus Plan shares from the 2006 and 2007 deferrals over the three financial years commencing 1 January 2007 that vested by right under the scheme rules and, additionally, at the are met, as explained above.
Remuneration Committees discretion, the balance of those deferrals.
Mr Snowball also received those shares from the 2005 Deferred Bonus Annual Plan DBP award that were his by right under the scheme rules.
Bonus Plan Long-Term In accordance with the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee Deferred Incentive determined that the 2005 DBP matching shares should be forfeited.
2 Shares Plan Shares Andrew Moss 64,273 136,540 3.
On his final departure Tidjane Thiam will receive those shares from the 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan award that are his by right under the Philip Scott 58,647 107,282 scheme rules.
The matching shares provided by the Company will lapse.
He will forfeit his total 2007 Annual Bonus Plan deferral and will In addition to the above, directors have interests in awards receive that portion from the 2006 deferral 50% to which he is and options granted in previous years.
entitled under the scheme rules, whilst the remaining 50% balance will be forfeited.
The 2007 Long-Term Incentive Award made will lapse when he leaves the company.
Bonuses include the value of shares granted under the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan maximum 3,000 and the total amounts earned in respect of 2006 performance under the Annual Bonus Plan ie the cash bonus paid plus the amount deferred and granted in the form of shares.
All the executive directors received life assurance benets during the year that relate to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the directors life assurance and spouses benets which, had they died during the year, could not have been wholly paid by the pension scheme and would therefore have been met by the Company.
The disclosure also includes the cost of private medical insurance, and where appropriate, accompanied travel, accommodation and car benets.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benets.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
Payments to former directors: Since his retirement as a director in 2003, Anthony Wyand has served as a consultant and as a director on the Boards of some of the Groups European operations.
Under this arrangement, a fee of 120,000 was paid to him in 2007.
Derek Stevens, a former non-executive director who retired from the Board on 31 December 2006 received a fee of 25,000 in 2007 for continuing to serve as chairman of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
During the year, shares granted to certain former executive directors under the Companys incentive plans vested.
Details of these awards were fully disclosed in the year of grant.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2007 was 6.6 million 2006: 7.9 million.
No compensation payment for loss of ofce was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
Amounts paid to Tidjane Thiam relate only to the period for which he served as an executive director.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 28 Shareholder services Corporate Nominee Managing your shareholding The Company operates a corporate nominee service, the The Companys Register of Members is maintained by the Aviva Share Account.
Shareholders who choose to join the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, and any shareholders who nominee account will not have any personal details entered have any queries in respect of their shareholding should on the Companys public share register.
Members of the contact them directly by using the contact details provided.
Aviva Share Account may retain the same rights as registered In addition to assisting with general queries the Registrar shareholders and are able to elect to receive the same can also help with the following: shareholder communications.
To join the Aviva Share Amalgamating your shareholding Account or view the terms and conditions please contact If shareholders received more than one copy of the the Registrar using the contact details provided.
Companys communications, it could be because there is more than one record for them on the share register.
Share dealing To avoid duplicate mailings the Registrar can arrange for Shareholders who hold their shares in the Aviva Share Account will need to use one of the services detailed accounts to be amalgamated.
below to buy or sell Aviva shares.
Those who hold a share Dividend payments directly to your bank certicate can use the services below or any bank, building or building society account society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities.
As an alternative to having dividends paid by cheque, Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling Aviva shareholders can, if they wish, have them credited directly shares should seek professional financial advice.
into their bank or building society account on the dividend You can buy or sell shares via the internet or by payment date.
Having the dividend paid directly into their telephone through Shareview Dealing, a share dealing bank or building society account avoids the risk of cheques service provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
being lost or intercepted in the post and is more convenient For internet purchases and sales log on to as payment is credited automatically on the payment date.
co. uk dealing and for telephone Shareholders wishing to set up a dividend mandate can do purchases and sales call 08456 037 037 between so by completing the dividend mandate form attached to 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
the dividend cheque, via the Companys website at Equiniti Financial Services Limited also offers a postal www.
com dividendmandate or by contacting the share dealing service.
For further information and a Registrar.
For overseas shareholders, an overseas payment postal share dealing form telephone 0871 384 2953. service is available, which allows shareholders in over 30 Equiniti Financial Services Limited is authorised and countries worldwide to have dividends credited directly into regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered their bank accounts in local currencies, normally costing number 6208699. less than paying in a sterling cheque.
Dividend mandate To buy or sell shares over the telephone, shareholders can forms for overseas shareholders can be obtained via the contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 0870 549 3002 for Companys website at www.
com dividendmandate shareholders with a share certicate or 0870 549 3001 or by contacting the Registrar.
for shareholders with an Aviva Share Account Consolidated tax vouchers statement.
To check instructions and maintain high Private shareholders who have dividends paid directly into quality service standards, Barclays Stockbrokers may their bank or building society account receive one consolidated record and monitor calls.
New Business Development tax voucher each year unless they have requested otherwise.
hours are between 8am and 6pm, Monday to Friday, If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each excluding Bank Holidays.
Barclays Stockbrokers is dividend payment please contact the Registrar.
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered number 124247.
Scrip Dividend Barclays Stockbrokers also offers a postal share dealing The Company currently operates the Aviva Scrip Dividend service.
For further information and a postal share Scheme the Scheme which provides shareholders with dealing form telephone 0870 514 3263. the opportunity to receive their dividends in the form of NatWest Stockbrokers provide a share dealing service new ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash.
either over the telephone or at certain NatWest branches Shareholders who have not joined the Scheme but wish to for Aviva Share Account holders only.
For more do so should contact the Registrar, Equiniti, and request a information contact NatWest Stockbrokers on mandate form.
The completed mandate form will need to 0845 122 0689.
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited NWS be received by Equiniti by no later than 17 April 2008 in is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
order to be effective for the 2007 final dividend payable on NWS is authorised and regulated by the Financial 16 May 2008.
Further details are included on the Companys Services Authority, registered number 124395. website at www.
It is the Companys Registered Ofce: Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, intention that following the payment of the 2007 final London EC1N 2TH.
Registered England and Wales, dividend on 16 May 2008 the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme registered number 1959479, England.
NWS is operated will be withdrawn and shareholders will be offered the by a joint venture between The Royal Bank of Scotland opportunity to participate in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Group plc and The Toronto Dominion Bank.
Full details of the new plan will be communicated to Share dealing for overseas shareholders shareholders at this time.
To sell Aviva shares over the telephone, shareholders can contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 44 0 141 352 3959.
ID fraud unsolicited mail Non UK residents will need to provide various documents Aviva has been working with Equiniti to review its in order to use this service and details will be provided procedures and where possible restrict the opportunities on registration.
Please note that regulations prevent this for fraud.
All shareholders must continue to be vigilant and service from being offered to the residents of the United if any unsolicited mail offering advice is received, States, Canada and Australia.
Settlement proceeds will shareholders should inform the Registrar immediately.
be sent to either a UK sterling bank account or by sterling cheque.
Calls to these numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2007 29 Company website Electronic communications Visit the Aviva website Shareholders can register online to www.
com receive electronic communications for further shareholder from the Company information, contact visit www.
com ecomms details and the Companys for further information.
com en-gb pricesnews Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS on 1 May 2008 at 11am.
com agm Group financial calendar for 2008 Announcement of quarterly trading update 25 April Annual General Meeting 1 May Announcement of unaudited six months interim results 30 July Announcement of quarterly trading update 22 October Ordinary shares 2007 final dividend Ex-dividend date 26 March Record date 28 March Scrip dividend price available 2 April Dividend payment date 16 May Preference shares 3 First dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 March 3 First dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 June 3 Second dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 September 3 Second dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 December Shareholder services continued Useful contact details Detailed below are the contact details and various addresses that shareholders may nd useful.
UK Long-term savings and general insurance: www.
com websites Aviva plc Alternative format Registered in England Number: If you would like to request a copy of our Annual Report 2468686 and Accounts or Annual Review in an alternative format, Registered Ofce: for example, large print, braille or audio cassette, St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ please contact the Registrar using the details above.
com Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar using the paperless proofing system RingMaster.
Board photography by Marcus Ginns.
We are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
This year our annual review has been printed by Burlington.
We choose Burlington because they have the important environmental certification by SGS for the FSC standards.
The paper we have used, Greencoat 55 Silk, is made from 55% recycled post-consumer fibre using non-toxic, harmless fide-inking residues.
And additionally, it is manufactured under strict environmental management systems, the international ISO 14001 standard and EMAS Eco-Management & Audit Scheme.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
