Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company IFRIC interpretation 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, Transactions, and interpretation 12, Service Concession together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Agreements, were issued during 2006 but neither of them Aviva transacts life assurance and long-term savings is applicable for the current accounting period.
In addition, business, fund management, and most classes of general IFRIC interpretation 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes and insurance and health business through its subsidiaries, IFRIC interpretation 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, continental benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia, Australia and Interaction, have been issued during 2007.
They have not other countries throughout the world.
The Group also yet been endorsed by the EU but neither of them is invests in securities, properties, mortgages and loans and applicable for the current accounting period.
On adoption, carries on the business of trading in property.
none of these interpretations will have any impact on the Groups financial reporting.
The Group is managed using reportable segments based on the above activities.
These are long-term business, fund In accordance with Phase I IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, management, general insurance and health, further details the Group has applied existing accounting practices for of which are given in note 4. insurance and participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to comply with the IFRS framework and The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation applicable standards.
Further details are given in policy F of these financial statements are set out below.
Items included in the financial statements of each of A Basis of presentation the Groups entities are measured in the currency of the Since 2005, all European Union listed companies have primary economic environment in which that entity been required to prepare consolidated financial statements operates the functional currency.
The consolidated using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS financial statements are stated in sterling, which is the issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Companys functional and presentation currency.
Unless IASB and endorsed by the European Union EU.
The date otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these financial of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
In addition to statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. fulfilling their legal obligation to comply with IFRS as As supplementary information, consolidated financial adopted by the European Union, the Group and Company information is also presented in euros.
have also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and applicable at The separate financial statements of the Company are on 31 December 2007. pages 236 to 243.
In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRS 8, Operating FRS 27 Segments, the requirements of which are applicable for Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. was issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB On adoption, it will result in amendments to the disclosure on 13 December 2004, following the Penrose inquiry.
of our segmental results but will have no impact on the Aviva, along with other major insurance companies and results overall.
The IASB also issued IAS 1, Presentation of the Association of British Insurers ABI, signed a Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation, and an 114 Memorandum of Understanding MoU with the ASB amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs, during 2007, relating to FRS 27.
Under this MoU, Aviva voluntarily Financial neither of which has yet been endorsed by the EU.
agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 in the statements These are not applicable for the current accounting period Groups IFRS financial statements.
and, on adoption, they will not have any material impact on the Groups financial reporting.
B Operating profit Since the year end, the IASB has issued a revised version of The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations IFRS 3, Business Combinations, and an amendment to IAS means that, for managements decision-making and 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, internal performance management, short-term realised which are applicable to accounting periods beginning on and unrealised investment gains and losses are treated as or after 1 July 2009, and amendments to IAS 1, non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on an Presentation of Financial Instruments, IAS 32, Financial operating profit measure that incorporates an expected Instruments: Presentation, and IFRS 2, Share-Based return on investments supporting its long-term business, Payments: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, which are general insurance and health business.
Operating profit applicable to accounting periods beginning on or after for long-term business is based on expected investment 1 January 2009.
None of these has yet been endorsed by returns on financial investments backing shareholder and the EU and, on adoption, will not have any material policyholder funds over the reporting period, with impact on the Groups financial reporting.
allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
For general insurance and health business, the total investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is analysed between that calculated using a longer term return and short-term uctuations from this.
Further details of this analysis and the assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Merger accounting and the merger reserve C Critical accounting policies and the Prior to 1 January 2004, certain significant business use of estimates combinations were accounted for using the pooling of The preparation of financial statements requires the Group interests method or merger accounting, which treats to select accounting policies and make estimates and the merged groups as if they had been combined assumptions that affect items reported in the consolidated throughout the current and comparative accounting income statement, balance sheet, other primary periods.
Merger accounting principles for these statements and notes to the financial statements.
combinations gave rise to a merger reserve in the Critical accounting policies consolidated balance sheet, being the difference between The major areas of judgement on policy application are the nominal value of new shares issued by the parent considered to be over whether Group entities should be company for the acquisition of the shares of the subsidiary consolidated set out in policy D, on product classification and the subsidiarys own share capital and share premium set out in policy F and in the classification of financial account.
These transactions have not been restated, as investments set out in policy S. permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangements.
Use of estimates The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of All estimates are based on managements knowledge of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on consideration includes the issue of new shares by the that knowledge and their predictions of future events and Company, thereby attracting merger relief under the actions.
Actual results can always differ from those Companies Act 1985. estimates, possibly significantly.
Investment vehicles The table below sets out those items we consider In several countries, the Group has invested in a number particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and of specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.
Investment Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, Item Accounting policy and properties, and distribute most of their income.
Insurance and participating The Groups percentage ownership in these vehicles can investment contract liabilities F & K uctuate from day-to-day according to the Groups and Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets N third party participation in them.
Where Group companies Impairment of financial investments S are deemed to control such vehicles, with control Fair value of derivative financial instruments T determined based on an analysis of the guidance in IAS 27 and SIC 12, they are consolidated, with the interests of Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W parties other than Aviva being classied as liabilities.
These Provisions and contingent liabilities Z appear as Net asset value attributable to unitholders in Pension obligations AA the consolidated balance sheet.
Where the Group does Deferred tax AB not control such vehicles, and these investments are held by its insurance or investment funds, they do not meet the Further details on the estimation of amounts for insurance denition of associates and are, instead, carried at fair and participating investment contract liabilities are given in value through profit and loss within financial investments 115 notes 38, 39 and 50 to these financial statements.
in the consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with IAS Financial 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
statements D Consolidation principles As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain Subsidiaries European long-term business policyholder funds have Subsidiaries are those entities including Special Purpose invested in a number of property limited partnerships Entities in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has PLPs, either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, power to exercise control over financial and operating through a mix of capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed policies in order to gain economic benets.
Subsidiaries are by general partners GPs, in which the long-term business consolidated from the date on which effective control is shareholder companies hold equity stakes and which transferred to the Group and are excluded from themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are consolidation from the date of disposal.
All inter-company managed by a Group subsidiary.
transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint on transactions between Group companies have been ventures or other financial investments depends on the eliminated.
shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each From 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of partnership agreement.
Where the Group exerts control IFRS, the Group is required to use the purchase method of over a PLP, it has been treated as a subsidiary and its accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
results, assets and liabilities have been consolidated.
Where Under this method, the cost of an acquisition is measured the partnership is managed by a contractual agreement as the fair value of assets given up, shares issued or such that no party exerts control, notwithstanding that the liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, plus costs Groups partnership share in the PLP including its indirect directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the stake via the relevant PUT and GP may be greater than cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been classied as joint the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see policy ventures.
Where the Group holds minority stakes in PLPs, N below.
Any surplus of the acquirers interest in the with no disproportionate inuence, the relevant subsidiarys net assets over the cost of acquisition is investments are carried at fair value through profit and credited to the income statement.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued Associates and joint ventures Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the Associates are entities over which the Group has exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
significant inuence, but which it does not control.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such Generally, it is presumed that the Group has significant transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets inuence if it has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are Joint ventures are entities whereby the Group and other recognised in the income statement.
parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to Translation differences on debt securities and other joint control arising from a contractual agreement.
In a monetary financial assets measured at fair value and number of these, the Groups share of the underlying designated as held at fair value through profit or loss FV assets and liabilities may be greater than 50% but the see policy S are included in foreign exchange gains and terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that control losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial is not exercised.
Such jointly-controlled entities are referred assets designated as AFS, translation differences are to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so Gains on transactions between the Group and its are recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent exchange differences arising from fair value gains and of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
losses are included in the investment valuation reserve Losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides within equity.
Translation differences on non-monetary evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred items, such as equities which are designated as FV, are between entities.
reported as part of the fair value gain or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in the Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted investment valuation reserve.
for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the investment in a given associate or F Product classification joint venture, together with the Groups share of that Insurance contracts are dened as those containing entitys post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, significant insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event is included as an asset in the consolidated balance sheet.
could cause an insurer to make significant additional As explained in policy N, the cost includes goodwill payments in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack identied on acquisition.
The Groups share of their commercial substance, at the inception of the contract.
post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights income statement and its share of post-acquisition and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Equity be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts not significant inuence over the investment.
considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint classified as investment contracts.
venture equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, Some insurance and investment contracts contain a the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to entity.
These are referred to as participating The Companys investments contracts.
Financial In the Company balance sheet, subsidiaries and joint statements As noted in policy A above, insurance contracts and ventures are stated at their fair values, estimated using participating investment contracts in general continue to applicable valuation models underpinned by the be measured and accounted for under existing accounting Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or classied as available for sale AFS financial assets, with the date of the acquisition of the entity.
Accounting for changes in their fair value being recorded in a separate insurance contracts is determined in accordance with the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005, as E Foreign currency translation amended in December 2006.
However, in certain Income statements and cash ows of foreign entities businesses, the accounting policies or accounting estimates are translated into the Groups presentation currency at have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 average exchange rates for the year while their balance respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities sheets are translated at the year end exchange rates.
to reect current market interest rates and changes to Exchange differences arising from the translation of the regulatory capital requirements.
net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the currency translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 G Premiums earned I Other fee and commission income Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and Other fee and commission income consists primarily participating investment contracts are recognised as of fund management fees, income from the RACs income when receivable, except for investment-linked non-insurance activities, distribution fees from mutual premiums which are accounted for when the funds, commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single premium revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares, and transfer business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
agent fees for shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance For regular premium contracts, receivables are taken at the commissions receivable are deferred in the same way date when payments are due.
Premiums are shown before as acquisition costs, as described in policy W. All other deduction of commission and before any sales-based taxes fee and commission income is recognised as the services or duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of are provided.
premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but not received from the date they are deemed to have J Net investment income lapsed is offset against premiums.
Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on General insurance and health premiums written reect debt securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised business incepted during the year, and exclude any gains and losses on FV investments as dened in policy S. sales-based taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on those proportions of the premiums written in a year that the ex-dividend date.
Interest income is recognised as it relate to periods of risk after the balance sheet date.
accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the Unearned premiums are calculated on either a daily investment.
It includes the interest rate differential on or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed based recognised on an accruals basis.
on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included in premiums written.
The realised gain or loss on disposal of an investment is the difference between the proceeds received, net of Deposits collected under investment contracts without transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised cost a discretionary participating feature non-participating as appropriate.
Unrealised gains and losses represent the contracts are not accounted for through the income difference between the carrying value at the year end and statement, except for the fee income covered in policy H the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase and the investment income attributable to those contracts, value during the year, less the reversal of previously but are accounted for directly through the balance sheet recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
disposals made during the year.
H Other investment contract K Insurance and participating fee revenue investment contract liabilities Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, surrenders Claims or other contract services.
The fees may be for xed Long-term business claims reect the cost of all claims 117 amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and arising during the year, including claims handling costs, will generally be charged as an adjustment to the Financial as well as policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation statements policyholders balance.
The fees are recognised as revenue of bonus declarations.
in the period in which they are collected unless they relate General insurance and health claims incurred include all to services to be provided in future periods, in which case losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims assessed against the policyholder balance as consideration outstanding from previous years.
for origination of the contract are charged on some Claims handling costs include internal and external costs non-participating investment and investment fund incurred in connection with the negotiation and management contracts.
Where the investment contract settlement of claims.
Internal costs include all direct is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are deferred and expenses of the claims department and any part of the recognised over the expected term of the policy by an general administrative costs directly attributable to the adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the investment claims function.
contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees that relate to the provision of investment management services are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued Long-term business provisions Liability adequacy Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether participating investment contract liabilities are measured the recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using accounting policies consistent with those adopted using current estimates of future cash ows.
If that previously under existing accounting practices, with the assessment shows that the carrying amount of the liabilities exception of liabilities remeasured to reect current market less related assets is insufficient in the light of the interest rates and those relating to UK with-profit and estimated future cash ows, the deficiency is recognised non-profit contracts, to be consistent with the value of the in the income statement by setting up an additional backing assets.
In the United States, shadow adjustments provision in the balance sheet.
are made to the liabilities or related deferred acquisition General insurance and health provisions costs and are recognised directly in equity.
This means that the measurement of these items is adjusted for unrealised i Outstanding claims provisions gains or losses on the backing assets such as AFS financial General insurance and health outstanding claims investments see policy S, that are recognised directly in provisions are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all equity, in the same way as if those gains or losses had claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, been realised.
The Group has adopted FRS 27, Life whether reported or not, together with related claims Assurance, for liabilities relating to such contracts, which handling costs.
significant delays are experienced in the adds to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them notication and settlement of certain types of general in any way.
Further details are given in policy A above.
insurance claims, particularly in respect of liability business, including environmental and pollution exposures, the The long-term business provisions are calculated separately ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty for each life operation, based either on local regulatory at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for certain claims requirements or existing local GAAP at the later of the date are discounted, using rates having regard to the returns of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the generated by the assets supporting the liabilities.
Any entity, and actuarial principles consistent with those applied estimate represents a determination within a range of in the UK.
Each calculation represents a determination possible outcomes.
Further details of estimation techniques within a range of possible outcomes, where the are given in note 38 c. assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances prevailing in each life operation.
The principal Outstanding claims provisions are valued net of an assumptions are disclosed in note 38 b.
For liabilities of allowance for expected future recoveries.
Recoveries the UK with-profit fund, FRS 27 requires liabilities to be include non-insurance assets that have been acquired calculated as the realistic basis liabilities as set out by the by exercising rights to salvage and subrogation under UKs Financial Services Authority, adjusted to remove the the terms of insurance contracts.
shareholders share of future bonuses.
For UK non-profit ii Provision for unearned premiums insurance contracts, the Group applies the realistic The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission regulatory basis as set out in the FSA Policy Statement payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent 06 14 Prudential Changes for Insurers where applicable.
periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
Present value of future profits PVFP on nonThe change in this provision is taken to the income 118 participating business written in a with-profit fund statement in order that revenue is recognised over the For with-profit life funds falling within the scope of the period of risk.
Financial FSA realistic capital regime, and hence FRS 27, an amount statements iii Liability adequacy may be recognised for the present value of future profits At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired on non-participating business written in a with-profit fund risks and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall where the determination of the realistic value of liabilities excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs in that with-profit fund takes account, directly or indirectly, over unearned premiums, using the current estimates of of this value.
This amount is recognised as a reduction in future cash ows under its contracts after taking account the liability rather than as an asset on the balance sheet, of the investment return expected to arise on assets and is then apportioned between the amounts that have relating to the relevant general business provisions.
If these been taken into account in the measurement of liabilities estimates show that the carrying amount of its insurance and other amounts which are shown as an adjustment to liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs is the unallocated divisible surplus.
insufficient in light of the estimated future cash ows, Unallocated divisible surplus the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by In certain participating long-term insurance and investment setting up a provision in the balance sheet.
business, the nature of the policy benets is such that the Other assessments and levies division between shareholder reserves and policyholder The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related liabilities is uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions policyholders or shareholders has not been determined by are established where there is a present obligation legal or the end of the financial year are held within liabilities as an constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are unallocated divisible surplus.
not included in insurance liabilities but are included under Provisions in the balance sheet.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from L Non-participating investment both insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded contract liabilities insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers Claims are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding For non-participating investment contracts with an claims provisions or settled claims associated with the account balance, claims reect the excess of amounts reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant paid over the account balance released.
Contract liabilities Reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial Deposits collected under non-participating investment risk are accounted for directly through the balance sheet contracts are not accounted for through the income and are not included in reinsurance assets or liabilities.
statement, except for the investment income attributable A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the to those contracts, but are accounted for directly through consideration paid or received less any explicitly identied the balance sheet as an adjustment to the investment premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the The majority of the Groups contracts classied as noncarrying amount accordingly and recognises that participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts impairment loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance and are measured at fair value, to be consistent with the asset is impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result value of the backing assets.
Certain liabilities for nonof an event that occurred after initial recognition of the linked non-participating contracts are measured at reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amortised cost.
amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the The fair value liability is in principle established through amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
the use of prospective discounted cash-ow techniques.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair value liability is equal N Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets to the current unit fund value, plus additional non-unit reserves if required on a fair value basis.
For non-linked Goodwill contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the present Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an value of expected cash ows on a market-consistent basis.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions consideration received at the date of initial recognition, prior to 1 January 2004 the date of transition to IFRS is less the net effect of principal payments such as carried at its book value original cost less cumulative transaction costs and front-end fees, plus or minus the amortisation on that date, less any impairment cumulative amortisation using the effective interest rate subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January method of any difference between that initial amount 1998 was eliminated against reserves and has not been and the maturity value, and less any write-down for reinstated.
Goodwill arising on the Groups investments surrender payments.
The effective interest rate is the one in subsidiaries since that date is shown as a separate asset, that equates the discounted cash payments to the initial whilst that on associates and joint ventures is included amount.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost 119 within the carrying value of those investments.
liability is determined as the value of future best estimate Financial cash ows discounted at the effective interest rate.
Acquired value of in-force business AVIF statements The present value of future profits on a portfolio of M Reinsurance long-term insurance and investment contracts, acquired The Group accepts and cedes reinsurance in the normal either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is course of business, with retention limits varying by line of recognised as an asset.
In most cases, this is classied business.
Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as AVIF but, for non-participating investment contracts, as revenue in the same manner as they would be if the it is included within intangibles.
If this results from the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into acquisition of an investment in a joint venture or an account the product classication of the reinsured business.
associate, the AVIF is held within the carrying amount The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration contracts is of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised over accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured the useful lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is chosen account for these policies.
by considering the prole of the additional value of in-force business acquired and the expected depletion Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are in its value.
The value of the acquired in-force long-term recognised in the income statement immediately at the business is reviewed annually for any impairment in date of purchase and are not amortised.
Premiums ceded value and any reductions are charged as expenses in the and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in income statement.
the consolidated income statement and balance sheet as appropriate.
The full embedded value of the long-term business and further details of the methodology and assumptions are included as supplementary information on pages 247 to 267.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets The assets residual values, useful lives and method of Intangibles consist primarily of brands, certain of which depreciation are reviewed regularly, and at least at each have been assessed as having indefinite useful lives, and financial year end, and adjusted if appropriate.
Where the contractual relationships such as access to distribution carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated networks and customer lists.
The economic lives of the recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its latter are determined by considering relevant factors such recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of as usage of the asset, typical product life cycles, potential property and equipment are determined by reference to obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of the their carrying amount.
industry, competitive position, and the period of control All borrowing costs and repairs and maintenance costs over the assets.
These intangibles are amortised over their are charged to the income statement during the financial useful lives, which range from five to 22 years, using the period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major straight-line method.
renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset The amortisation charge for the year is included in the when it is probable that future economic benets in excess income statement under Other operating expenses.
of the most recently assessed standard of performance of For intangibles with nite lives, a provision for impairment the existing asset will ow to the Group and the will be charged where evidence of such impairment is renovation replaces an identiable part of the asset.
Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life regular impairment testing, as described below.
Impairment testing P Investment property For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles with Investment property is held for long-term rental yields indefinite useful lives have been allocated to cashand is not occupied by the Group.
Completed investment generating units by geographical reporting unit and property is stated at its fair value, which is supported by business segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill and market evidence, as assessed by qualied external valuers intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at or by local qualied staff of the Group in overseas least annually or when circumstances or events indicate operations.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the there may be uncertainty over this value.
Goodwill and income statement in net investment income.
indefinite life intangibles are written down for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to support its carrying value.
Further details on goodwill allocation and Q Impairment of non-financial assets Property and equipment and other non-financial assets impairment testing are given in note 16 b. are reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying O Property and equipment amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount amounts, which are supported by market evidence, and of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the movements are taken to a separate reserve within equity.
higher of an assets net selling price and value in use.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately 120 retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down identiable cash ows.
to their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
Financial All other items classed as property and equipment within statements R Derecognition and offset of the balance sheet are carried at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
financial assets and financial liabilities A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial Investment properties under construction are included asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is within property and equipment until completion, and derecognised where: are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their values.
The rights to receive cash ows from the asset have expired: Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write down the cost of other assets to their residual values The Group retains the right to receive cash ows from over their estimated useful lives as follows: the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third-party under a Land No depreciation pass-through arrangement: or Properties under construction No depreciation Owner-occupied properties 25 years The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash Motor vehicles Three years, ows from the asset and has either transferred or lease term if longer substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has Computer equipment Three to five years neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks Other assets Three to five years and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net Listed AFS securities: The Group performs an objective amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a review of the current financial position and prospects of legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts the issuer on a regular basis, to identify whether any and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise impairment provision is required.
This review takes into the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
account the likelihood of the current market price recovering to former levels.
S Financial investments Unlisted AFS securities: The Group considers the current The Group classies its investments as either financial financial position of the issuer and the future prospects in assets at fair value through profit or loss FV or financial identifying the requirement for an impairment provision.
assets available for sale AFS.
The classication depends For both listed and unlisted AFS securities identied as on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, being impaired, the cumulative unrealised net loss and is determined by local management at initial previously recognised within the AFS reserve is transferred recognition.
The FV category has two subcategories to realised losses for the year.
those that meet the denition as being held for trading and those the Group chooses to designate as FV referred Mortgages, investment property and securitised to in this accounting policy as other than trading.
loans: Impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash ows discounted at the effective In general, the FV category is used as, in most cases, the rate of interest of the loan, subject to the fair value of the Groups investment or risk management strategy is to underlying collateral.
When a loan is considered to be manage its financial investments on a fair value basis.
impaired, the income statement is charged with the Debt securities and equity securities, which the Group buys difference between the carrying value and the estimated with the intention to resell in the short term, are classied recoverable amount.
Interest income on impaired loans is as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives see policy T recognised based on the estimated recoverable amount.
All other securities in the FV category are classied as other than trading.
The AFS category is used where the Reversals of impairments are only recognised where the relevant long-term business liability including shareholders decrease in the impairment can be objectively related to funds is passively managed.
an event occurring after the write-down such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are not Purchases and sales of investments are recognised recognised in respect of equity instruments.
on the trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities are initially recorded at their fair value, T Derivative financial instruments which is taken to be amortised cost, with amortisation and hedging credited or charged to the income statement.
Investments Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange classied as trading, other than trading and AFS are contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value swaps, currency and interest rate options both written of trading and other than trading investments are included and purchased and other financial instruments that derive in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
their value mainly from underlying interest rates, foreign Changes in the fair value of securities classied as AFS, exchange rates, commodity values or equity instruments.
121 except for impairment losses and relevant foreign All derivatives are initially recognised in the balance sheet exchange gains and losses, are recorded in a separate at their fair value, which usually represents their cost.
They Financial investment valuation reserve within equity.
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the statements method of recognising movements in this value depending The fair values of investments are based on quoted bid on whether they are designated as hedging instruments prices or amounts derived from cash ow models.
Fair and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values values for unlisted equity securities are estimated using are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not applicable price earnings or price cash ow ratios rened available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted to reect the specic circumstances of the issuer.
cash ow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives Securities, for which fair values cannot be measured are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and reliably, are recognised at cost less impairment.
When as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums securities classied as AFS are sold or impaired, the paid for derivatives are recorded as an asset on the accumulated fair value adjustments are transferred out of balance sheet at the date of purchase, representing their the investment valuation reserve to the income statement.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at their fair Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or value.
They are subsequently measured at the higher of over-the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives the expected receivable or liability under the guarantee are standardised and include certain futures and option and the amount initially recognised less any cumulative contracts.
OTC derivative contracts are individually amortisation.
negotiated between contracting parties and include Impairment forwards, swaps, caps and oors.
Derivatives are subject to The Group reviews the carrying value of its investments various risks including market, liquidity and credit on a regular basis.
If the carrying value of an investment risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial is greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value instruments.
is reduced through a charge to the income statement in The notional or contractual amounts associated with the period of impairment.
The following policies are used derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets to determine the level of any impairment: or liabilities on the balance sheet as they do not represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts are disclosed in note 56.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued Interest rate and currency swaps Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between and qualify as net investment or cash ow hedges, and two-parties to exchange periodic payments in the same that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged currency, each of which is computed on a different interest risk, are recognised in a separate reserve within equity.
rate basis, on a specified notional amount.
Most interest Gains and losses accumulated in this reserve are included rate swaps involve the net exchange of payments in the income statement on disposal of the relevant calculated as the difference between the xed and oating investment or occurrence of the cash ow as appropriate.
Currency swaps, in their simplest For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, form, are contractual agreements that involve the exchange while providing effective economic hedges under the of both periodic and final amounts in two different Groups risk management positions, do not qualify for currencies.
Exposure to gain or loss on both types of swap hedge accounting under the specic IFRS rules and are contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives therefore treated as derivatives held for trading.
Their fair as a function of maturity dates, interest and foreign value gains and losses are recognised immediately in other exchange rates, and the timing of payments.
Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and U Loans represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated Loans with xed maturities, including policyholder loans, security or money market instrument at a specified future mortgage loans on investment property, securitised date and price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC mortgages and collateral loans, are recognised when cash where two-parties agree on an interest rate and other is advanced to borrowers.
The majority of these loans are terms that will become a reference point in determining, carried at their unpaid principal balances and adjusted for in concert with an agreed notional principal amount, a net amortisation of premium or discount, non-refundable loan payment to be made by one-party to the other, depending fees and related direct costs.
These amounts are deferred what rate in fact prevails at a future point in time.
Interest and amortised over the life of the loan as an adjustment rate options, which consist primarily of caps and oors, to loan yield using the effective interest rate method.
are interest rate protection instruments that involve the Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid potential obligation of the seller to pay the buyer an principal balances or cost.
interest rate differential in exchange for a premium paid For certain mortgage loans, the Group has taken by the buyer.
This differential represents the difference advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a present the mortgages, associated borrowings, other notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest liabilities and derivative financial instruments at fair value, rate contracts will increase or decrease over their respective since they are managed together on a fair value basis.
This lives as interest rates uctuate.
presentation provides more relevant information and Foreign exchange contracts eliminates any accounting mismatch that would otherwise Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward arise from using different measurement bases for these and futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange items.
The fair values of mortgages classied as FV are the currency of one country for the currency of another estimated using discounted cash ow forecasts, based on 122 country at an agreed price and settlement date.
Foreign a risk-adjusted discount rate which reects the risks exchange option contracts are similar to interest rate associated with these products.
They are revalued at each Financial option contracts, except that they are based on currencies, period end, with movements in their fair values being statements rather than interest rates.
taken to the income statement.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will increase To the extent that a loan is uncollectible, it is written-off or decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange as impaired.
Subsequent recoveries are credited to the and interest rates uctuate.
Derivative instruments for hedging On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the V Collateral The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form Group designates certain derivatives as either: i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability of cash or non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain derivative contracts and loans in order fair value hedge : ii a hedge of a future cash ow attributable to a to reduce the credit risk of these transactions.
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a rm commitment cash ow hedge : or of the credit risk of the counterparty.
iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally investment hedge.
segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset on Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in the balance sheet with a corresponding liability for the this way, provided certain criteria are met.
Non-cash collateral received is not recognised of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship on the balance sheet unless the Group either sells or between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, repledges these assets in the absence of default, at which as well as the risk management objective and the strategy point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group also as a liability.
documents its assessment of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at inception and on an ongoing basis.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are balance sheet with a corresponding receivable for its included in payables and other financial liabilities on the return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised balance sheet.
from the balance sheet unless the Group defaults on its Operating cash ows obligations under the relevant agreement, and therefore Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and continues to be recognised on the balance sheet within financial investments are included within operating cash the appropriate asset classication.
ows as the purchases are funded from cash ows associated with the origination of insurance and W Deferred acquisition costs investment contracts, net of payments of related benets and other assets and claims.
The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for insurance and participating investment Y Leases contracts excluding those written in the UK are deferred Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor, are out of future margins in revenues on these contracts.
For classied as operating leases.
Assets held for use in such participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition costs leases are included in property and equipment, and are are generally not deferred as the liability for these depreciated to their residual values over their estimated contracts are calculated in accordance with the FSAs useful lives.
Rentals from such leases are credited to the realistic capital regime and FRS 27.
For non-participating income statement on a straight-line basis over the period investment and investment fund management contracts, of the relevant leases.
Payments made as lessees under incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements that operating leases net of any incentives received from the are directly attributable to securing an investment lessor are charged to the income statement on a straightmanagement service are also deferred.
line basis over the period of the relevant leases.
Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to Z Provisions and contingent liabilities the reinsurer, and is treated as a separate liability.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are it is probable that an outow of resources embodying amortised systematically over a period no longer than that economic benets will be required to settle the obligation, in which they are expected to be recoverable out of these and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation margins.
Deferrable acquisition costs for non-participating can be made.
Where the Group expects a provision to be investment and investment fund management contracts reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the are amortised over the period in which the service is reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only provided.
General insurance and health deferred when the reimbursement is more probable than not.
acquisition costs are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share of The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same manner when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract 123 as the underlying asset.
are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Financial Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of statements business at the end of each reporting period and are Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is a possible written-off where they are no longer considered to be future obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a recoverable.
present obligation as a result of a past event but either a payment is not probable or the amount cannot be reliably Other assets include vehicles which are subject to estimated.
repurchase agreements and inventories of vehicle parts.
The former are carried at the lower of their agreed AA Employee benets repurchase price or net realisable value, whilst the latter are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, Annual leave and long service leave where cost is arrived at on the weighted average cost Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service formula or first in first out FIFO basis.
Provision is made leave are recognised when they accrue to employees.
against inventories which are obsolete or surplus to A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual requirements.
leave and long service leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date.
X Cash flow statement Pension obligations Cash and cash equivalents The Group operates a large number of pension schemes Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in around the world, whose members receive benets on hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and either a dened benefit basis generally related to a other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily members final salary and length of service or a dened convertible to known amounts of cash and which are contribution basis generally related to the amount subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such invested, investment return and annuity rates, the assets of investments are normally those with less than three which are generally held in separate trustee-administered months maturity from the date of acquisition, and include funds.
The pension plans are generally funded by payments certificates of deposit.
from employees and the relevant Group companies, taking account of the recommendations of qualied actuaries.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued For dened benefit plans, the pension costs are assessed The Group accounts for options and awards under equity using the projected unit credit method.
Under this compensation plans, which were granted after method, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the 7 November 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, income statement so as to spread the regular cost over the using the fair value based method of accounting the fair service lives of employees, in accordance with the advice value method.
Under this method, the cost of providing of qualied actuaries.
The pension obligation is measured equity compensation plans is based on the fair value of the as the present value of the estimated future cash outows, share awards or option plans at date of grant, which is using a discount rate based on market yields for high recognised in the income statement over the expected quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the vesting period of the related employees and credited to the currency in which the benets will be paid and that have equity compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these related pension liability.
The resulting pension scheme awards are shown as a deduction from shareholders surplus or deficit appears as an asset or liability in the funds at their original cost.
When the options are exercised and new shares are Costs charged to the income statement comprise the issued, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, current service cost the increase in pension obligation are credited to share capital par value and the balance to resulting from employees service in the current period, share premium.
Where the shares are already held by together with the schemes administration expenses, past employee trusts, the net proceeds are credited against the service cost resulting from changes to benets with cost of these shares, with the difference between cost and respect to previous years service, and gains or losses on proceeds being taken to retained earnings.
In both cases, curtailment for example, when employees leave the the relevant amount in the equity compensation reserve is scheme or on settlements for example, when a schemes then credited to retained earnings.
obligations are transferred outside the Group.
In addition, the difference between the expected return on scheme AB Income taxes assets, less investment expenses, and the interest cost of The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for unwinding the discount on the scheme liabilities to reect the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
the benets being one period closer to being paid out is Tax, including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated credited to investment income.
All actuarial gains and over profits before taxation and amounts charged or losses, being the difference between the actual and credited to reserves as appropriate.
expected returns on scheme assets, changes in assumptions underlying the liability calculations and Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken experience gains or losses on the assumptions made at the for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all beginning of the period, are recognised immediately in material temporary differences between the tax bases of equity through the Statement of recognised income and assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the expense.
For dened contribution plans, the Group pays The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation contributions to publicly or privately administered pension of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial 124 plans.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group, assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions as employer, has no further payment obligations.
The for pensions and other post-retirement benets and tax Financial Groups contributions are charged to the income losses carried forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on statements statement in the year to which they relate and are the difference between the fair values of the net assets included in staff costs.
acquired and their tax base.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date are used Other post-employment obligations to determine the deferred tax.
Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare or other benets to their retirees.
The Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that entitlement to these benets is usually based on the it is probable that future taxable profit will be available employee remaining in service up to retirement age and against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
the completion of a minimum service period.
Unlike the In countries where there is a history of tax losses, deferred pension schemes, no assets are set aside in separate funds tax assets are only recognised in excess of deferred tax to provide for the future liability but none of these liabilities if there is convincing evidence that future profits schemes is material to the Group.
The costs of the will be available.
Canadian scheme are included within those for the Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising dened benefit pension schemes in that country.
For such from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint schemes in other countries, provisions are calculated in line ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the with local regulations, with movements being charged to temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable the income statement within staff costs.
that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable Equity compensation plans future.
The Group offers share award and option plans over the Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, including a Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of or from goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible which are given in the Directors remuneration report and for tax purposes, or from the initial recognition of an asset in note 29. or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of Treasury shares available for sale investments, owner-occupied properties Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the and other amounts taken directly to equity is recognised in Companys share capital or obtain rights to purchase its the balance sheet as a deferred tax asset or liability.
In share capital, the consideration paid including any addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups attributable transaction costs net of income taxes is life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Australia pay tax on shown as a deduction from total shareholders equity.
policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on Gains and losses on sales of own shares are charged certain products at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
is accounted for as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
AE Fiduciary activities Assets and income arising from duciary activities, The Group has decided to show separately the amounts of together with related undertakings to return such assets policyholder tax to provide a more meaningful measure of to customers, are excluded from these financial statements the tax the Group pays on its profits.
In the pro forma where the Group has no contractual rights in the assets reconciliations, operating profit has been calculated after and acts in a duciary capacity such as nominee, trustee charging policyholder tax.
AC Borrowings AF Earnings per share Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most income available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference average number of ordinary shares in issue during the between net proceeds and the redemption value is year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares recognised in the income statement over the period of purchased by the Group and held as treasury shares.
the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
Earnings per share has also been calculated on the operating profit before impairment of goodwill and other Where loan notes have been issued in connection with adjusting items, after tax, attributable to ordinary certain securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken shareholders, as the directors believe this gure provides advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to a better indication of operating performance.
Details are present the mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative given in note 14. financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average provides more relevant information and eliminates any number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise from conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as using different measurement bases for these three items.
convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as AD Share capital and treasury shares dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease Equity instruments net earnings per share.
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual 125 interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its AG Operations held for sale Financial liabilities.
Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations statements equity if: which are held for sale are shown separately in the i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or consolidated balance sheet.
The relevant assets are other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their liabilities on terms that may be unfavourable: and fair value, less the estimated selling costs.
ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a xed amount of cash or other assets for a xed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
Share issue costs Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the issue.
Dividends Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised in the period in which they are declared and appropriately approved.
