The Bankers Investment T The Bankers Investment Tr rust PLC ust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report & Accounts 2007 57 57 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twentieth As Special Resolutions Annual General Meeting of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC 9 THAT, subject to resolution 8 being passed, the Board be and will be held at the Chartered Accountants Hall, One Moorgate it is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Place, London EC2R 6EA on Wednesday 27 February 2008 at Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the 12 noon for the transaction of the following business: meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash at a price not less than the then prevailing net asset value per share 1 To receive the report of the directors and the audited pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 as if subaccounts for the year ended 31 October 2007. section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any 2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall expire upon ended 31 October 2007. the renewal of this authority or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of 3 To declare a final dividend.
this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry 4 To re-appoint Mr R D Brewster as a director.
make an offer or agreement which would or might require 5 To re-appoint Mr F I Sumner as a director.
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or 6 To re-appoint  LLP as registered agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
10 THAT the Company be and it is hereby generally and 7 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors unconditionally authorised to make market purchases remuneration.
within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act Special Business 1985 of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following Company Shares provided that: resolutions: a the maximum percentage of ordinary share capital As an Ordinary Resolution which may be purchased is 14.99% equivalent to 8 THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and 17,019,773 shares at the date of this notice : unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate be paid for a Share shall not exceed 105% of the average nominal amount of 1,419,260 being 5% of the issued of the middle market quotations for the Shares as taken share capital at the date of this notice PROVIDED THAT this from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual five business days preceding the date of purchase: General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the nominal value make an offer or agreement which would or might require per Share: and relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the not expired and THAT the directors may only use this Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to authority when it is advantageous to the Companys purchase Shares under which such purchases will or may existing shareholders.
be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority and may make a purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
58 58 The Bankers Investment T The Bankers Investment Tr rust PLC ust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report & Accounts 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 11 THAT the Company be authorised, subject to and in into force, the regulations contained in the printed accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 document produced to the meeting and marked B and and the Articles of Association of the Company as from for the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman time to time varied, to send, convey or supply all types of of the meeting be hereby approved and adopted as the notices, documents or information to the members by Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for means of electronic equipment for the processing including and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association.
by means of digital compression, storage and transmission By order of the Board of data, using wires, radio optical technologies, or any other electromagnetic means, including by making such notices, documents or information available on a website.
12 THAT the regulations contained in the printed document produced to the meeting and marked A and for the W J King FCIS purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman of the For and on behalf of meeting be hereby approved and adopted as the Articles Henderson Secretarial Services Limited of Association of the Company in substitution for and to Secretary the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association.
10 January 2008 13 THAT, with effect from 1 October 2008 or such later date as Registered Office: section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 shall be brought 4 Broadgate, London, EC2M 2DA Notes Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 12 noon on 25 February 2008 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Changes in entries on the relevant register of securities after 12 noon on 25 February shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Pursuant to section 324 of the Companies Act 2006 a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged with the Companys registrars not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
This right does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights pursuant to section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 have been sent this notice of meeting and are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Companies Act 2006, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have such right or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
The completion of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and representatives are understood by the Company to have agreed to receive any communications relating to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
This notice is sent for information only to debenture stock holders who are not entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
The Register of Directors Interests kept by the Company in accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at the meeting.
The proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the meeting.
PRINCES STREET F I N S B U POULTRY GRESHAM ST. LIVERPOOL STREET R Y LONDON WALL GREAT SWAN ALLEY COPTHALL CL.
KINGS A MS YA D R R TELEGRAPH ST. LOTHBURY CORNHILL C LEADENHALL ST.
The Bankers Investment T The Bankers Investment Tr rust PLC ust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report & Accounts 2007 59 59 Annual General Meeting Venue Chartered Accountants Hall is located in the Liverpool St Moorgate City of London, in Moorgate Place.
It is a few Chartered Accountants minutes walk from Liverpool Street Station, Hall MOORGATE PL.
Bank and Moorgate Underground Stations.
Please use the One Moorgate Place entrance.
THROGMORTON ST. Bank Warning to Shareholders Over recent months many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Equiniti formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on the inside back cover of this Report.
I R. C T U THREADNEEDLE ST. S S T E E E R L T T S A D A O R B G D L O L S P A BISH H O IRONMONGER OLD JEWRY MOORGATE COLEMAN STREET COPTHALL AVENUE G THROGMORTON AVE N I S A B
