The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 39 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial information for the year ended 31 October 2007 has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee IFRIC approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRS have been adopted by the European Union and have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The accounts have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in December 2005 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2007 or later periods, but the Group and Company have not early adopted them: IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a complementary Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures to improve the information about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 for annual periods beginning 1 November 2007.
IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
This standard does not have any impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
IFRS 8, Operating segments effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 November 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The expected impact is still being assessed but it does not appear to have a significant impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
b Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and of its wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, The Army & Navy Investment Company Limited.
The intra-group balances are eliminated on consolidation.
