Governance Corporate governance Accountability and audit Going concern Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in for preparing the accounts.
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Internal control The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain Management has assessed the effectiveness of Barclays PLCs internal an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2007.
In making Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of its assessment, management has utilised the criteria set forth by the failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Management concluded that Throughout the year ended 31st December 2007, and to date, the Group based on its assessment, Barclays PLCs internal control over financial has operated a system of internal control which provides reasonable reporting was effective as of 31st December 2007. assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all controls, The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject including financial and operational controls and compliance with laws to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided managing the significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk management section on guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code page 126. published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board regularly reviews these processes through the Board Committees.
Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control Auditors report set out on page 163, is made with a view to distinguishing semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certification process for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the is conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The auditors in relation to the accounts.
effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business areas.
Regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts Internal Audit and the compliance and legal functions covering particularly for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in accordance financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
The Board Audit with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared individual Committee monitors resolution of any identified control issues of Group accounts in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
level significance through to a satisfactory conclusion.
The accounts are required by law and IFRSs to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for that The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF describes period: the Companies Act 1985 provides, in relation to such accounts, the Groups approach to internal control and details Group policies and that references in the relevant part of the law to accounts giving a true processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group and fair view are references, to their achieving fair presentation.
Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 165 to Quarterly risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group 265, and the additional information contained on pages 266 to 289, the significance including credit risk, market risk and operational risk, Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable including legal and compliance risk.
Reports covering risk measurement judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they standards and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk Committee.
consider to be applicable have been followed.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on pages 80 to 112.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Managements report on internal control over financial reporting the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable The management of Barclays PLC is responsible for establishing and them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Barclays PLCs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of Barclays PLCs principal executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and published by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Barclays PLCs internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and the Directors of Barclays PLC: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of Barclays PLCs assets that could have a material effect on Barclays PLCs financial statements.
