Barclays and Group are terms which company number 48839.
The Company, originally named Barclay are used to refer to either of the preceding groups when the subject matter & Company Limited, was incorporated in England and Wales on 20th July is identical.
The term Company or parent Company refers to Barclays 1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by PLC and the term Bank refers to Barclays Bank PLC.
The term Absa Group shares.
The company name was changed to Barclays Bank Limited on Limited is used to refer to Absa Group Limited and its subsidiaries and the 17th February 1917 and it was reregistered in 1982 as a public limited term Absa is used to refer to the component of the International Retail company under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
On 1st January 1985, and Commercial Banking segment represented by this business.
In this the company changed its name to Barclays PLC.
report, the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands Barclays Bank PLC is a public limited company registered in England under of millions of pounds sterling respectively: the abbreviations US$m company number 1026167.
The Bank was incorporated on 7th August and US$bn represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars 1925 under the Colonial Bank Act 1925 and on 4th October 1971 was respectively and m and bn represent millions and thousands of registered as a company limited by shares under the Companies Acts millions of euros respectively.
Pursuant to The Barclays Bank Act 1984, on 1st January Statutory Accounts 1985 the Bank was reregistered as a public limited company and its name The consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries are set was changed from Barclays Bank International Limited to Barclays Bank PLC.
out on pages 165 to 265 along with the accounts of Barclays PLC itself All of the issued ordinary share capital of Barclays Bank PLC is owned on page 180.
The consolidated accounts of Barclays Bank PLC and its by Barclays PLC.
The Annual Report for Barclays PLC also contains the subsidiaries are set out on pages 266 to 278.
The accounting policies on consolidated accounts of, and other information relating to, Barclays Bank pages 165 to 173 and the Notes commencing on page 182 apply equally PLC.
The Annual Report includes information required to be included in the to both sets of accounts unless otherwise stated.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2007.
Form 20-F will contain as exhibits certificates pursuant to Sections 302 Adoption of IFRS and 2004 comparatives and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, signed by the Group Chief The Group adopted the requirements of International Financial Reporting Executive and Group Finance Director, with respect to both Barclays PLC Standards and International Accounting Standards collectively IFRSs and Barclays Bank PLC.
Except where otherwise indicated, the information as adopted by the European Union in 2005.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the given is identical with respect to both Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
accounting standards relating to financial instruments and insurance The term Companies Act 1985 means the company law provisions contracts have not been applied to 2004.
Therefore, the 2004 comparatives of the Companies Act 1985 as amended that remain in force.
The term are significantly different from the numbers reported in later years.
n a Companies Act 2006 means the operative company law provisions of has been included in tables where, as a result of the application of IAS 32, the Companies Act 2006.
IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in later years and UK GAAP in 2004, the disclosure is not applicable.
The accounts of Barclays Bank PLC included in this document do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985.
The statutory accounts of Barclays Bank PLC, which contain an unqualified audit report and do not contain any statement under Section 237 2 or 3 of that Act, will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies in accordance with Section 242 of that Act and are published as a separate document.
162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Independent Auditors report We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider UK Audit Report of the Independent Auditors whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other to the members of Barclays PLC information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Group Chief We have audited the Group and Parent company financial statements Executives review, Financial review, Risk management, Directors report, the financial statements of Barclays PLC the Company for the year Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration ended 31st December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated and Parent report, Accountability and audit and Presentation of information.
company income statements, Consolidated and Parent company We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any balance sheets, Consolidated and Parent company cash flow statements, apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Consolidated and Parent company statements of recognised income statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and expense and the related notes in the section headed Notes to the accounts.
These financial statements have been prepared under the Basis of Audit Opinion accounting policies set out in the section headed Accounting policies.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report that Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit is described as having been audited the auditable part.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities applied and adequately disclosed.
for the accounts within the section headed Accountability and audit.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial part of the Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report are free regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving auditable part of the Remuneration report.
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Opinion come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups auditable part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared and the Parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2007 and of the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Groups and the Parent companys profit and cash flows for the year financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to then ended: you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report to you 3 report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of if we have not received all the information and explanations we require the IAS Regulation: and for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys and Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the  LLP Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors control procedures.
London, United Kingdom 7th March 2008 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays PLC website is the responsibility of the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 163 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated income statements and that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
the related Consolidated balance sheets, Consolidated statements of recognised income and expense and, Consolidated statements of cash A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial Barclays PLC the Company and its subsidiaries at 31st December 2007 reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external and 31st December 2006 and the results of their operations and cash purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31st December 2007, A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also, in our that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions opinion the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2007, based on assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted by the COSO.
The Companys management are responsible for these accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance control over financial reporting, included in Managements report regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, on internal control over financial reporting in the section headed or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on Accountability and audit.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these the financial statements.
financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting reporting based on our audits which were integrated in 2007 and 2006. may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material deteriorate.
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement  LLP presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, London, United Kingdom assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 7th March 2008 164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Significant Accounting Policies The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 1.
Reporting entity purchase of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities Barclays or the Group under Section 227 2 of the Companies Act incurred or assumed, plus any costs directly related to the acquisition.
The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
See wealth management and investment management services.
In addition, accounting policy 14 for the accounting policy for goodwill.
Intra-group individual financial statements have been prepared for the holding transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and consistent company, Barclays PLC the Company, under Section 226 2 b accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the purposes of of the Companies Act 1985. the consolidation.
Barclays PLC is a public limited company, incorporated in Great Britain As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where a and having a registered office in England.
Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption 2.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards of Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group, and Regulations 1993 with regard to the preparation and filing of individual the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared partnership financial statements.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Associates and joint ventures and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as published by the International but not control, over the operating and financial management policy Accounting Standards Board IASB.
They are also in accordance with decisions.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
excess of 20%, but no more than 50%, of the voting rights.
IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures and an amendment to IAS 1 A joint venture exists where the Group has a contractual arrangement Presentation of Financial Statements on capital disclosures were with one or more parties to undertake activities typically, though not implemented in 2007, resulting in new or revised disclosures.
necessarily, through entities which are subject to joint control.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Unless designated as at fair value through profit and loss as set out in consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below.
policy 7, the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are These policies have been consistently applied.
initially recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the 3.
Basis of preparation Groups share of the post-acquisition profit or loss, or other movements The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared reflected directly in the equity of the associated or jointly controlled entity.
under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair valuation Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture is of certain financial instruments and contracts to buy or sell non-financial included in the carrying amount of the investment net of any accumulated items and trading inventories to the extent required or permitted under impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint accounting standards and as set out in the relevant accounting polices.
venture equals or exceeds the recorded interest, including any other They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling m, the currency of the unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless country in which Barclays PLC is incorporated.
it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
3 Critical accounting estimates The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is based The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS on financial statements made up to a date not earlier than three months requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires before the balance sheet date, adjusted to conform with the accounting management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the polices of the Group.
Unrealised gains on transactions are eliminated to accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are also involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial asset transferred.
statements such as fair value of financial instruments Note 49, allowance In the individual financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, for impairment Note 47, goodwill Note 21, intangible assets Note 22, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less impairment, if any.
and retirement benefit obligations Note 30.
Consolidation The consolidated and individual financial statements are presented in Subsidiaries Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries, including certain special purpose Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using their functional currency, being the currency of the entities SPEs where appropriate, made up to 31st December.
Entities qualify as subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange whether the Group controls another entity.
Details of the principal gains and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these subsidiaries are given in Note 40. items are recognised in the income statement except for qualifying cash SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between flow hedges or hedges of net investments.
See policy 12 for the policies the Group and that entity indicates control.
Potential indicators of control, on hedge accounting.
as set out in SIC 12 Consideration Special Purpose Entities, include, Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated using amongst others, an assessment of the Groups exposure to the risks and the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange benefits of the SPE.
differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Translation differences on equities classified as available for sale financial assets and non-monetary items are included directly in equity.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 165 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies For the purposes of translation into the presentational currency, assets, Commitment fees, together with related direct costs, for loan facilities liabilities and equity of foreign operations are translated at the closing where draw down is probable are deferred and recognised as an rate, and items of income and expense are translated into Sterling at adjustment to the effective interest on the loan once drawn.
Commitment the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or average rates fees in relation to facilities where draw down is not probable are of exchange where these approximate to actual rates.
recognised over the term of the commitment.
The exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation Insurance premiums are included in cumulative translation reserves within shareholders Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
equity and included in the profit or loss on disposal or partial disposal Net trading income of the operation.
Income arises from the margins which are achieved through marketGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign making and customer business and from changes in market value caused subsidiaries are maintained in the functional currency of the foreign by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other operation, translated at the closing rate and are included in hedges of net market variables.
Trading positions are held at fair value and the resulting investments where appropriate.
gains and losses are included in the income statement, together with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding On transition to IFRS, the Group brought forward a nil opening balance on costs relating to trading activities.
the cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment arising from the retranslation of foreign operations, which is shown as a separate item in Dividends from subsidiaries shareholders equity.
In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, dividends from subsidiaries are accounted for on the basis of dividends received in the 6.
Interest, fees and commissions accounting period.
Interest Interest is recognised in interest income and interest expense in the 7.
Financial assets and liabilities income statement for all interest bearing financial instruments classified Financial assets as held to maturity, available for sale or other loans and receivables using The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: the effective interest method.
financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments and available for sale financial The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised assets.
Management determines the classification of financial assets and cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets and liabilities and of liabilities at initial recognition.
allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the expected Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial Financial instruments are classified in this category if they are held for instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying trading, or if they are designated by management under the fair value amount of the instrument.
The application of the method has the effect option.
Instruments are classified as held for trading if they are: of recognising income and expense receivable or payable on the i acquired principally for the purposes of selling or repurchasing in the instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the near term: period to maturity or repayment.
ii part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed In calculating effective interest, the Group estimates cash flows using together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of projections based on its experience of customers behaviour considering short-term profit-taking: or all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit losses.
Fees, including those for early redemption, are included in the iii a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee calculation to the extent that they can be measured and are considered to contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument.
be an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Cash flows arising from the Financial instruments cannot be transferred into or out of this category direct and incremental costs of issuing financial instruments are also taken after inception.
Financial instruments included in this category are into account in the calculation.
Where it is not possible to otherwise recognised initially at fair value and transaction costs are taken directly to estimate reliably the cash flows or the expected life of a financial the income statement.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value instrument, effective interest is calculated by reference to the payments are included directly in the income statement.
The instruments are or receipts specified in the contract, and the full contractual term.
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Fees and commissions Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Unless included in the effective interest calculation, fees and commissions and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
are recognised on an accruals basis as the service is provided.
Fees and Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments held for trading commissions not integral to effective interest arising from negotiating, or or designated under the fair value option are recognised on trade date, participating in the negotiation of a transaction from a third party, such as being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
The fair value option is used in the following circumstances: Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised i financial assets backing insurance contracts and financial assets based on the applicable service contracts.
Asset management fees related backing investment contracts are designated at fair value through to investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided.
profit or loss because the related liabilities have cash flows that are The same principle is applied to the recognition of income from wealth contractually based on the performance of the assets or the related management, financial planning and custody services that are liabilities are insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates continuously provided over an extended period of time.
Fair valuing the assets through profit and loss significantly reduces the recognition inconsistencies that would arise if the financial assets were classified as available for sale: 166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements ii financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial Financial liabilities guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading through profit or loss if they contain substantive embedded derivatives: liabilities and liabilities designated at fair value, which are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when iii financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial extinguished.
guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through profit or loss where doing so significantly reduces Determining fair value measurement inconsistencies that would arise if the related Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated derivatives were treated as held for trading and the underlying at fair value, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price financial instruments were carried at amortised cost: and for that instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the fair value is calculated using financial markets pricing models, the methodology is to iv certain private equity and other investments that are managed, and calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk contract and then discount these values back to a present value.
These management or investment strategy and reported to key models use as their basis independently sourced market parameters management personnel on that basis.
including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities Loans and receivables prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
For financial liabilities Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or measured at fair value, the carrying amount is adjusted to reflect the effect determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and which on fair value of changes in own credit spreads.
Most market parameters are not classified as available for sale.
Loans and receivables are initially are either directly observable or are implied from instrument prices.
recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
The model may perform numerical procedures in the pricing such as They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interpolation when input values do not directly correspond to the most interest method see accounting policy 6.
They are derecognised when actively traded market trade parameters.
However, where valuations the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Group has transferred include significant unobservable inputs, the transaction price is deemed to substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
provide the best evidence of initial fair value for accounting purposes.
As such, profits or losses are recognised upon trade inception only when such Regular way purchases and sales of loans and receivables are recognised profits can be measured solely by reference to observable market data.
The difference between the model valuation and the initial transaction Held to maturity price is recognised in profit or loss: Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with a on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction, or over the fixed or determinable payments that the Groups management has the period until all model inputs will become observable where intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at appropriate, or: fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest b released in full where previously unobservable inputs become method see accounting policy 6.
They are derecognised when the observable.
rights to receive cash flows have expired.
Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these Regular way purchases of held to maturity financial assets are recognised may vary from product to product and change over time.
Factors include on trade date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase for example, the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of the asset.
product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the market 3 place, the maturity of market modelling, the nature of the transaction Available for sale bespoke or generic.
To the extent that valuation is based on models Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are or inputs that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair designated as available for sale and are not categorised into any of the value can be more subjective, dependant on the significance of the other categories described above.
They are initially recognised at fair value unobservable input to the overall valuation.
Unobservable inputs are including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently determined based on the best information available, for example by held at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analytical included as a separate component of equity until sale when the techniques.
cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.
Interest determined using the effective interest method see accounting policy 6, 8.
Impairment of financial assets impairment losses and translation differences on monetary items are The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective recognised in the income statement.
The assets are derecognised when evidence that loans and receivables or available for sale financial the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Group has transferred investments are impaired.
These are impaired and impairment losses are substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of the Regular way purchases and sales of available for sale financial instruments asset and prior to the balance sheet date a loss event and that loss are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Group commits event or events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of to purchase or sell the asset.
the financial asset or the portfolio that can be reliably estimated.
The Embedded derivatives criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative of an impairment loss include: component.
In such cases, the derivative component is termed an a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: embedded derivative.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract, b a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value through profit or loss, principal payments: the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair value with gains c the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers and losses being recognised in the income statement.
financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the Profits or losses cannot be recognised on the initial recognition of lender would not otherwise consider: embedded derivatives unless the host contract is also carried at fair value.
d it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: e the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties: or Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 167 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies f observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans in order to achieve the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan and since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease an acquisition of equity securities.
Where control is obtained over cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated.
Any portfolio, including: further impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an impairment i adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in of the original instrument.
the portfolio: In the case of available for sale financial investments, a significant ii national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also on the assets in the portfolio.
considered in determining whether impairment exists.
Where such For loans and receivables the Group first assesses whether objective evidence exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously evidence of impairment exists individually for loans and receivables that recognised directly in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the are individually significant, and individually or collectively for loans and income statement.
In the case of debt instruments classified as available receivables that are not individually significant.
If the Group determines for sale, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as all other that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually financial assets.
Reversals of impairment of debt instruments are assessed loan and receivable, whether significant or not, it includes recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment of equity the asset in a group of loans and receivables with similar credit risk shares are not recognised in the income statement, increases in the fair characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Loans value of equity shares after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
and receivables that are individually assessed for impairment and 9.
Sale and repurchase agreements including stock borrowing for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not and lending included in a collective assessment of impairment.
Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the them a repo.
Such securities are retained on the balance sheet when assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group, flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The amount and the counterparty liability is included separately on the balance sheet of the loss is recognised using an allowance account and recognised in the as appropriate.
Similarly, where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject to The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a commitment to resell them a reverse repo but does not acquire a collateralised loan and receivable asset reflect the cash flows that may the risks and rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as result from foreclosure costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, collateralised loans, and the securities are not included in the whether or not foreclosure is probable.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loans and The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the life receivables are grouped on the basis of similar risk characteristics, taking of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to into account asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities past-due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets are sold to third parties, at which point the obligation to repurchase by being indicative of the counterpartys ability to pay all amounts due the securities is recorded as a trading liability at fair value and any according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
subsequent gain or loss included in net trading income.
Future cash flows in a group of loans and receivables that are collectively 10.
Securitisation transactions evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities or have entered cash flows of the assets in the group and historical loss experience for into funding arrangements with lenders in order to finance specific loans assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted based on current observable data All financial assets continue to be held on the Group balance sheet, and a to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period liability recognised for the proceeds of the funding transaction, unless: on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not currently exist.
i substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial instruments have been transferred, in which case, the assets are The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows derecognised in full: or are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
ii if a significant portion, but not all, of the risks and rewards have been transferred, the asset is derecognised entirely if the transferee has the Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original ability to sell the financial asset, otherwise the asset continues to be effective rate of interest which was used to discount the future cash flows recognised only to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Where i or ii above applies to a fully proportionate share of all or When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related allowance specifically identified cash flows, the relevant accounting treatment for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary is applied to that proportion of the asset.
procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 11.
Collateral and netting In certain circumstances, the Group may decide to cease hedge accounting The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties whenever even though the hedge relationship continues to be highly effective by possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral.
Master agreements no longer designating the financial instrument as a hedging instrument.
provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding transactions To the extent that the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative with the counterparty will fall due and all amounts outstanding will be differ from changes in the fair value of the hedged risk in the hedged item: settled on a net basis.
or the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging derivative differs from the cumulative change in the fair value of expected future cash flows Collateral of the hedged item, the hedge is deemed to include ineffectiveness.
The The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where this amount of ineffectiveness, provided it is not so great as to disqualify the is considered appropriate.
The collateral normally takes the form of a lien entire hedge for hedge accounting, is recorded in the income statement.
over the customers assets and gives the Group a claim on these assets for both existing and future liabilities.
Fair value hedge accounting Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are and derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk.
Collateral received attributable to the hedged risk.
in the form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet.
Collateral received in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet with a If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge corresponding liability.
These items are assigned to deposits received from accounting, it is discontinued.
For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, bank or other counterparties.
Any interest payable or receivable arising is the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income recorded as interest expense or interest income respectively except for statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge funding costs relating to trading activities which are recorded in net relationship using the effective interest method.
If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment Netting is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported Cash flow hedges in the balance sheet if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially basis, or to realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In many in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the cases, even though master netting agreements are in place, the lack of an periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Any ineffective intention to settle on a net basis results in the related assets and liabilities portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the being presented gross in the balance sheet.
Hedge accounting When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.
the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or transactions meet the criteria specified in IAS 39, the Group applies loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the 3 fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging income statement.
of a net investment in a foreign operation as appropriate to the risks Hedges of net investments being hedged.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group formally that are accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cumulative its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Hedges of net investments may include non-derivative liabilities as well as The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: derivative financial instruments although for a non-derivative liability only the foreign exchange risk is designated as a hedge.
i It is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Derivative contracts entered into as economic hedges that do not qualify ii the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised: for hedge accounting are held at fair value through profit or loss.
iii the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid: or 13.
Property, plant and equipment iv a forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.
Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provisions for impairment, if any.
Additions and subsequent expenditures are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance the future economic benefits expected to be derived from the assets.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, less the estimated residual value at the end of its useful economic life.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 169 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation: Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist of brands, customer lists, licences and other contracts, core deposit intangibles, mortgage servicing rights and Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property customer relationships.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised more than 50 years to run 2-3.3% when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, Leasehold property Over the remaining the cost can be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets less than 50 years to run life of the lease not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future Costs of adaptation of freehold and economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
The a leasehold property 7-10% value of intangible assets which are acquired in a business combination is Equipment installed in freehold and generally determined using income approach methodologies such as the a leasehold property 7-10% discounted cash flow method and the relief from royalty method that Computers and similar equipment 20-33% estimate net cash flows attributable to an asset over its economic life and Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 10-20% discount to present value using an appropriate rate of return based on the cost of equity adjusted for risk.
Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation and provisions calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in a manner are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to future cash flows, generally over 4-25 years.
When deciding on depreciation rates and methods, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological 15.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and developments and expected market requirements for, and the expected intangible assets pattern of usage of, the assets.
When reviewing residual values, the Group At each balance sheet date, or more frequently where events or changes estimates the amount that it would currently obtain for the disposal of the in circumstances dictate, property, plant and equipment and intangible asset after deducting the estimated cost of disposal if the asset were assets, are assessed for indications of impairment.
If indications are already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful present, these assets are subject to an impairment review.
subject to an impairment review as at the balance sheet date each year.
The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount No depreciation is provided on freehold land, although, in common with all of the asset with its recoverable amount: the higher of the assets or the long-lived assets, it is subject to impairment testing, if deemed appropriate.
cash-generating units net selling price and its value in use.
Net selling Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds price is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
disposed of in a binding sale agreement in an arms-length transaction evidenced by an active market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Intangible assets Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows Goodwill obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated entities resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on and joint ventures, and represents the excess of the fair value of the a pre-tax basis.
purchase consideration and direct costs of making the acquisition, over the fair value of the Groups share of the assets acquired, and the liabilities The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.
the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously recognised For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets, impairment loss relating to a fixed asset may be reversed in part or in full liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market when a change in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value.
This to determine the fixed assets recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of discounting is either performed using market rates or by using risk-free the fixed asset will only be increased up to the amount that it would have rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
Goodwill is capitalised been had the original impairment not been recognised.
Impairment losses and reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are on goodwill are not reversed.
For the purpose of conducting impairment indications that impairment may have occurred.
Goodwill is allocated to reviews, cash-generating units are the lowest level at which management cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill on monitors the return on investment on assets.
acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the amount of the investment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the 16.
Financial guarantees carrying amount of the goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a The carrying amount of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet as at specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the 31st December 2003 has been brought forward without adjustment on terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial statements at Computer software fair value on the date that the guarantee was given.
Other than where the Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and provisions for fair value option is applied, subsequent to initial recognition, the banks impairment, if any.
liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of the initial The identifiable and directly associated external and internal costs of measurement, less amortisation calculated to recognise in the income acquiring and developing software are capitalised where the software is statement any fee income earned over the period, and the best estimate controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that future economic of the expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a benefits that exceed its cost will flow from its use over more than one year.
result of the guarantees at the balance sheet date, in accordance with Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an expense policy 23. when incurred.
Any increase in the liability relating to guarantees is taken to the income Capitalised computer software is amortised over three to five years.
statement in Provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided.
Any liability remaining is recognised in the income statement when the guarantee is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Note a Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 15 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
170 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Long-term insurance contracts 17.
Issued debt and equity securities These contracts, insure events associated with human life for example, Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities death or survival over a long duration.
Premiums are recognised as where the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a present revenue when they become payable by the contract holder.
Claims and obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset to the holder, to surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Maturities on the policy exchange financial instruments on terms that are potentially unfavourable maturity date and regular withdrawals are accounted for when due.
or to satisfy the obligation otherwise than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of equity A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in shares.
Issued financial instruments, or their components, are classified as the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised, based on the equity where they meet the definition of equity and confer on the holder a expected discounted value of the benefit payments and directly related residual interest in the assets of the Company.
The components of issued administration costs, less the expected discounted value of the future financial instruments that contain both liability and equity elements are premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and other expenses.
accounted for separately with the equity component being assigned the The calculation of the liability contains assumptions regarding mortality, residual amount after deducting from the instrument as a whole the maintenance expenses and investment income.
amount separately determined as the fair value of the liability component.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts such as endowment Financial liabilities, other than trading liabilities and financial liabilities policies in addition reflect the value of assets held within unitised designated at fair value, are carried at amortised cost using the effective investment pools.
interest method as set out in policy 6.
Derivatives embedded in financial Short-term insurance contracts liabilities that are not designated at fair value are accounted for as set out Under its payment protection insurance products the Group is committed in policy 7.
Equity instruments, including share capital, are initially recognised to paying benefits to the policyholder rather than forgiving interest or at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income principal on the occurrence of an insured event, such as unemployment, tax.
Dividend and other payments to equity holders are deducted from sickness, or injury.
Property insurance contracts mainly compensate the equity, net of any related tax.
policyholders for damage to their property or for the value of property lost.
Share capital Premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period of Share issue costs the coverage.
Claims and claims handling costs are charged to income Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or as incurred, based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to options including those issued on the acquisition of a business are shown policyholders arising from events that have occurred up to the balance in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Group, based Dividends on ordinary shares on assessments of individual cases reported to the Group and statistical Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period analyses for the claims incurred but not reported.
in which they are paid or, if earlier, approved by the Barclays PLC Deferred acquisition costs DAC the Company shareholders.
Commissions and other costs that are related to securing new insurance Treasury shares and investment contracts are capitalised and amortised over the estimated Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Companys lives of the relevant contracts.
share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders Deferred income liability equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are Fees that are designed to recover commissions and other costs related 3 subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in to either securing new insurance and investment contracts or renewing shareholders equity.
existing investment contracts are included as a liability and amortised 19.
Insurance contracts and investment contracts over the estimated life of the contract.
The Group offers wealth management, term assurance, annuity, Value of business acquired property and payment protection insurance products to customers On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, such as through the acquisition that take the form of longand short-term insurance contracts.
of a subsidiary, the Group recognises an intangible asset representing The Group classifies its wealth management and other products as the value of business acquired VOBA, representing the future profits insurance contracts where these transfer significant insurance risk, embedded in acquired insurance contracts and investment contracts generally where the benefits payable on the occurrence of an insured with a discretionary participation feature.
The asset is amortised over event are at least 5% more than the benefits that would be payable if the remaining terms of the acquired contracts.
the insured event does not occur.
Liability adequacy test Contracts that do not contain significant insurance risk or discretionary Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to participation features are classified as investment contracts.
Financial ensure the adequacy of contract liabilities net of DAC and VOBA assets.
assets and liabilities relating to investment contracts, and assets backing Current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling insurance contracts are classified and measured as appropriate under and administration costs, and investment returns from the assets backing IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
the liabilities are taken into account in the tests.
Where a deficiency is highlighted by the test, DAC and VOBA assets are written off first, and insurance liabilities increased when these are written off in full.
Any deficiency is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 171 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Reinsurance The Group also provides health care to certain retired employees, which Shortand long-term insurance business is ceded to reinsurers under are accrued as a liability in the financial statements over the period of contracts to transfer part or all of one or more of the following risks: employment, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit mortality, investment and expenses.
All such contracts are dealt with as pensions plans.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and other reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets.
The Group benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period which assesses reinsurance assets at each balance sheet date.
If there employees have provided services in the year.
Bonuses are recognised to is objective evidence of impairment, the carrying amount of the the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its employees that reinsurance asset is reduced accordingly resulting in a charge to the can be measured reliably.
All expenses related to employee benefits are recognised in the income 20.
Leases statement in staff costs, which is included within operating expenses.
Lessor Assets leased to customers under agreements, which transfer 22.
Share-based payments to employees substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, with or without The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions ultimate legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When assets are in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The fair value held subject to a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments, of the services received is measured by reference to the fair value of the discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease, is recognised shares or share options granted on the date of the grant.
The cost of the as a receivable.
The difference between the total payments receivable employee services received in respect of the shares or share options under the lease and the present value of the receivable is recognised as granted is recognised in the income statement over the period that the unearned finance income, which is allocated to accounting periods services are received, which is the vesting period.
The fair value of the under the pre-tax net investment method to reflect a constant periodic options granted is determined using option pricing models, which take rate of return.
into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life Assets leased to customers under agreements which do not transfer of the option and other relevant factors.
Except for those which include substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as terms related to market conditions, vesting conditions included in the operating leases.
The leased assets are included within property, plant terms of the grant are not taken into account in estimating fair value.
and equipment on the Groups balance sheet and depreciation is provided Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the on the depreciable amount of these assets on a systematic basis over number of shares or share options included in the measurement of the their estimated useful lives.
Lease income is recognised on a straight-line cost of employee services so that ultimately, the amount recognised in basis over the period of the lease unless another systematic basis is the income statement reflects the number of vested shares or share more appropriate.
Where vesting conditions are related to market conditions, the Lessee charges for the services received are recognised regardless of whether The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
or not the market related vesting condition is met, provided that the Operating lease rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the non-market vesting conditions are met.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless 23.
Provisions another systematic basis is more appropriate.
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences 21.
Employee benefits of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic The Group provides employees worldwide with post-retirement benefits benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably mainly in the form of pensions.
The Group operates a number of pension estimated.
schemes which may be funded or unfunded and of a defined contribution When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business or a or defined benefit nature.
In addition, the Group contributes, according to demonstrable commitment has been made to cease to use a property local law in the various countries in which it operates, to Governmental and where the costs exceed the benefits of the property, provision is made, other plans which have the characteristics of defined contribution plans.
where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations relating to the lease For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the schemes are expected to exceed anticipated rental income and other benefits.
obligations using the projected unit credit method and the fair valuation The net costs are discounted using market rates of interest to reflect the of each of the schemes assets are performed annually, using the long-term nature of the cash flows.
assumptions set out in Note 30.
The difference between the fair value of Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at redundancy costs when an obligation exists.
An obligation exists when the balance sheet date, adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and has gains or losses and past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by starting balance sheet.
An asset, arising for example, as a result of past over to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
The provision funding or the performance of the plan investments, is recognised to the raised is normally utilised within nine months.
extent that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments and similar facilities if it holidays or refunds of contributions.
is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition of an Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% of asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.
the assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan are recognised in the income statement over the remaining average service lives of the Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably For defined contribution schemes, the Group recognises contributions measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement.
Any unless they are remote.
contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.
172 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 24.
Taxes, including deferred taxes Income tax payable on taxable profits current tax, is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Income tax recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as an asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against current or future taxable profits.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and legislation enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and is expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Segment reporting Business segments are distinguishable components of the Group that provide products or services that are subject to risks and rewards that are different to those of other business segments.
Geographical segments provide products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and rewards that are different to those of components operating in other economic environments.
Business segments are the primary reporting segments.
Group costs are allocated to segments on a reasonable and consistent basis.
Transactions between segments are generally accounted for in accordance with Group policies as if the segment were a stand-alone business with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Head office.
The analyses by geographical segment are based on the location of the customer.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits, and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of less than three months.
Repos and reverse repos are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.
Trust activities The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
These assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets of the Group.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 173 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting presentation Future Accounting Developments IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is a revised standard Consideration will be given during 2008 to the implications, if any, of the applicable to annual periods beginning on 1st January 2009.
The following new and revised standards and International Financial Reporting amendments affect the presentation of owner changes in equity and of Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as follows: comprehensive income.
They do not change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and events required IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and by other standards.
Separate Financial Statements are revised standards issued in January 2008.
The revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business IAS 23 Borrowing Costs is a revised standard applicable to annual combinations first accounted for in accounting periods beginning on or periods beginning on 1st January 2009.
The revision does not impact after 1st July 2009 and the amendments to IAS 27 apply retrospectively Barclays.
The revision removes the option not to capitalise borrowing to periods beginning on or after 1st July 2009.
The main changes in costs on qualifying assets, which are assets that take a substantial existing practice resulting from the revision to IFRS 3 affect acquisitions period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
that are achieved in stages and acquisitions where less than 100% of An amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment was issued in January the equity is acquired.
In addition, acquisition related costs such as 2008 that clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and fees paid to advisers must be accounted for separately from the performance conditions only.
It also specifies that all cancellations, business combination, which means that they will be recognised as whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same expenses unless they are directly connected with the issue of debt or accounting treatment, which results in the acceleration of charge.
The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a Group is considering the implications of the amendment, particularly to parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the loss the Sharesave scheme, and any resulting change in accounting policy of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
Until future would be accounted for in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, acquisitions take place that are accounted for in accordance with the changes in accounting estimates and errors in 2009. revised IFRS 3, the main impact on Barclays will be that, from 2010, gains and losses on transactions with non-controlling interests that do Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 not result in loss of control will no longer be recognised in the income Presentation of Financial Statements were issued in February 2008 that statement but directly in equity.
In 2007, gains of 23m and losses of require some puttable financial instruments and some financial 6m were recognised in income relating to such transactions.
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programs addresses accounting by entities liquidation to be classified as equity.
The amendments, which are that grant loyalty award credits such as points or travel miles to applicable to annual periods beginning on 1st January 2009, do not customers who buy other goods or services.
It requires entities to impact Barclays.
allocate some of the proceeds of the initial sale to the award credits and recognise these proceeds as revenue only when they have fulfilled their The following IFRIC interpretations issued during 2006 and 2007 which first obligations.
The Group is considering the implications of this apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2008 are not expected to result in any changes to the Groups accounting policies: interpretation and any resulting change in accounting policy would be accounted for in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: Accounting Estimates and Errors in 2009.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in November 2006 and would IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum first be required to be applied to the Group accounting period Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The standard replaces IAS 14 Segmental Reporting and would align operating segmental reporting Acquisitions with segments reported to senior management as well as requiring 2007: On 8th February 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of amendments and additions to the existing segmental reporting Indexchange Investment AG.
Indexchange is based in Munich and offers disclosures.
The standard does not change the recognition, exchange traded fund products.
measurement or disclosure of specific transactions in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group is considering the enhancements that On 28th February 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of Nile Bank permitted early adoption in 2008 may make to the transparency of the Limited.
Nile Bank is based in Uganda with 18 branches and 228 segmental disclosures.
174 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements On 30th March 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of EquiFirst.
On 31st August 2006, Barclays disposed of Bankhaus Wolbern which was EquiFirst is a non-prime wholesale mortgage originator in the United States.
On 18th May 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of Walbrook Group On 22nd December 2006 Barclays disposed of its interest in FirstCaribbean Limited.
Walbrook is based in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Hong Kong International Bank to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
where it serves high net worth private clients and corporate customers.
On 31st December 2006, BA&SF disposed of its European Vendor Finance 2006: On 1st November 2006, Barclays Bank PLC acquired the US business, including Barclays Industrie Bank GmbH and Barclays Technology mortgage servicing business of HomEq Servicing Corporation from Finance Ltd, to CIT Group.
Recent developments 2005: On 1st June 2005, Barclays Asset and Sales Finance BASF acquired On 16th April 2007, Barclays announced the sale of Barclays Global a 51% share and controlling stake in Fiats Iveco Vehicle Finance Business.
Investors Japan Trust & Banking Co. Ltd, a Japanese trust administration The transaction will expand BASFs commercial vehicle expertise.
The sale completed on 31st January 2008.
On 30th June 2005, EnterCard, the joint venture between Barclays Bank On 5th October 2007, Barclays announced that as at 4th October 2007 PLC and FreningsSparbanken also known as Swedbank, which was not all of the conditions relating to its offer for ABN AMRO Holding N. V. announced on 4th February 2005, began operations.
Barclays Bank PLC were fulfilled and as a result Barclays was withdrawing its offer with has a 50% economic interest in the joint venture.
Barclays also announced that it was restarting the credit cards in the Nordic market, initially in Sweden and Norway.
Barclays PLC share buy-back programme to minimise the dilutive effect of the issuance of shares to China Development Bank and Temasek Holdings On 1st July 2005, Barclays acquired the wealth business of ING Securities Private Limited on existing Barclays PLC shareholders.
This programme Bank France consisting of ING Ferri and ING Private Banking.
was intended to run until 31st December 2007, but was subsequently On 9th May 2005, Barclays announced the terms of a recommended extended to 31st January 2008. acquisition of a majority stake in Absa Group Limited Absa.
Barclays On 7th February 2008, Barclays announced the purchase of Discovers consolidated Absa from 27th July 2005.
UK credit card business for a consideration of approximately 35m.
Disposals The consideration is subject to an adjustment mechanism based on the 2007: On 4th April 2007, Barclays completed the sale of part of Monument, net asset value of the business at completion.
Completion is subject to a credit card business.
various conditions, including competition clearance, and is expected to occur during the first half of 2008.
On 24th September 2007, Barclays completed the sale of a 50% shareholding in Intelenet Global Services Pvt Ltd. On 3rd March 2008, Barclays entered into an agreement with Petropavlousk Finance limited liability society to acquire 100% of the 2006: On 1st January 2006, Barclays completed the sale of the Barclays Russian Bank, Expobank, for a consideration of approximately $745m South African branch business to Absa Group Limited.
The transaction is expected to close in summer 2008 after the Barclays Capital South African operations and Corporate and Business receipt of appropriate regulatory approvals.
Expobank focuses principally Banking activities previously carried out by the South African branch of on Western Russia, with a substantial presence in Moscow and International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa, together St Petersburg.
Founded in 1994 it has grown rapidly and comprises with the associated assets and liabilities.
a blend of retail and commercial banking, operating 32 branches and On 25th July 2006, Barclays Asset & Sales Finance BASF disposed of its dealing with a range of corporate and wholesale clients.
As at 3 interest in its motor vehicle contract hire business, Appleyard Finance 31st December 2007, Expobank had net assets of $186m 93m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 175 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income 2 25,308 21,805 17,232 Interest expense 2 15,698 12,662 9,157 Net interest income 9,610 9,143 8,075 Fee and commission income 3 8,678 8,005 6,430 Fee and commission expense 3 970 828 725 Net fee and commission income 7,708 7,177 5,705 Net trading income 4 3,759 3,614 2,321 Net investment income 4 1,216 962 858 Principal transactions 4,975 4,576 3,179 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,011 1,060 872 Other income 6 188 214 147 Total income 23,492 22,170 17,978 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 492 575 645 Total income net of insurance claims 23,000 21,595 17,333 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 7 2,795 2,154 1,571 Net income 20,205 19,441 15,762 Staff costs 8 8,405 8,169 6,318 Administration and general expenses 9 4,141 3,914 3,768 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 467 455 362 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 186 136 79 Operating expenses 13,199 12,674 10,527 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 42 46 45 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 28 323 Profit before tax 7,076 7,136 5,280 Tax 10 1,981 1,941 1,439 Profit after tax 5,095 5,195 3,841 Profit attributable to minority interests 33 678 624 394 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,417 4,571 3,447 5,095 5,195 3,841 p pp Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 11 68.9 71.9 54.4 Diluted earnings per share 11 66.7 69.8 52.6 Interim dividend per ordinary share 11.50 10.50 9.20 Proposed final dividend per ordinary share 1 22.50 20.50 17.40 m m m Interim dividend paid 768 666 582 Proposed final dividend 1 1,485 1,307 1,105 The Board of Directors approved the accounts set out on pages 165 to 265 on 7th March 2008.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
176 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2007 2006 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 7,345 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,836 2,408 Trading portfolio assets 12 193,691 177,867 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 56,629 31,799 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 90,851 82,798 Derivative financial instruments 14 248,088 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 15 40,120 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 15 345,398 282,300 Available for sale financial investments 16 43,072 51,703 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 183,075 174,090 Other assets 18 5,150 5,850 Current tax assets 19 518 557 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 377 228 Goodwill 21 7,014 6,092 Intangible assets 22 1,282 1,215 Property, plant and equipment 23 2,996 2,492 Deferred tax assets 19 1,463 764 Total assets 1,227,361 996,787 Liabilities Deposits from banks 90,546 79,562 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,792 2,221 Customer accounts 294,987 256,754 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 65,402 71,874 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 74,489 53,987 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 92,639 84,637 Derivative financial instruments 14 248,288 140,697 Debt securities in issue 120,228 111,137 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 169,429 136,956 3 Other liabilities 25 10,499 10,337 Current tax liabilities 19 1,311 1,020 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 3,903 3,878 Subordinated liabilities 27 18,150 13,786 Deferred tax liabilities 19 855 282 Provisions 28 830 462 Retirement benefit liabilities 30 1,537 1,807 Total liabilities 1,194,885 969,397 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 31 1,651 1,634 Share premium account 31 56 5,818 Other reserves 32 874 390 Retained earnings 32 20,970 12,169 Less: treasury shares 32 260 212 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 23,291 19,799 Minority interests 33 9,185 7,591 Total shareholders equity 32,476 27,390 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 1,227,361 996,787 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Marcus Agius Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Christopher Lucas Group Finance Director Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 177 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Available for sale reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 484 87 249 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 13 86 Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal 563 327 120 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 68 14 260 Cash flow hedging reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 106 437 50 Net losses gains transferred to net profit 253 50 69 Currency translation differences 54 781 300 Tax 54 253 50 Other 22 25 102 Amounts included directly in equity 491 1,130 20 Profit after tax 5,095 5,195 3,841 Total recognised income and expense for the year 5,586 4,065 3,861 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 4,854 3,682 3,379 Minority interests 732 383 482 5,586 4, 065 3,861 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
178 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 7,076 7,136 5,280 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 2,795 2,154 1,571 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 669 612 450 Other provisions, including pensions 753 558 654 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 42 46 45 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 862 778 530 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 26 263 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 2 60 Other non-cash movements 1,133 1,702 1,475 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 77,987 27,385 63,177 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 90,589 46,944 67,012 Net increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 2,144 1,196 841 Net increase in trading portfolio assets 18,227 18,323 42,589 Net decrease increase in trading liabilities 6,472 310 9,888 Net increase decrease in financial investments 4,379 1,538 27,129 Net increase decrease in other assets 1,299 1,527 410 Net decrease in other liabilities 1,071 1,580 2,818 Tax paid 1,583 2,141 1,082 Net cash used in from operating activities 10,747 10,047 3,649 Purchase of available for sale investments 26,899 47,086 53,483 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 38,423 46,069 51,111 Purchase of intangible assets 263 212 91 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,241 654 588 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 617 786 98 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 270 248 2,115 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 383 15 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 668 432 160 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 57 44 49 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 220 162 176 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 145 739 40 3 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 17 23 Net cash from used in investing activities 10,064 1,154 5,292 Dividends paid 2,559 2,215 1,894 Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of debt securities 4,625 2,493 1,179 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 683 366 464 Issue of shares and other equity instruments 2,494 179 135 Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments 1,802 Net purchase of treasury shares 48 31 140 Net issue of shares to minority interests 1,331 632 2,267 Net cash from financing activities 3,358 692 1,083 Exchange loss gain on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 550 562 237 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 2,125 10,147 797 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 30,952 20,805 21,602 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33,077 30,952 20,805 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 7,345 3,906 Loans and advances to banks 40,120 30,926 31,105 Less: amounts with original maturity greater than three months 19,377 15,892 17,987 20,743 15,034 13,118 Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 43,072 51,703 53,497 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 41,688 50,684 53,281 1,384 1,019 216 Trading portfolio assets 193,691 177,867 155,723 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 188,556 170,329 152,183 5,135 7,538 3,540 Other 14 16 25 33,077 30,952 20,805 In 2005 the opening cash and cash equivalents balance was adjusted to reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to 1,037m at 31st December 2007 2006: 1,262m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 179 Accounts of Barclays PLC Parent company accounts Income statement For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Dividends received from subsidiary 3,287 1,964 2,012 Interest income 4 44 Trading loss 13 Other income 15 Management charge from subsidiary 4 4 4 Profit before tax 3,289 1,964 2,012 Tax Profit after tax 3,289 1,964 2,012 The Company had no staff during the year 2006: nil, 2005: nil.
Balance sheet As at 31st December 2007 2006 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Investment in subsidiaries 39 10,391 8,641 Current assets Cash and balances at central banks 671 575 Other current assets 20 17 Total assets 11,082 9,233 Liabilities Current liabilities Amounts payable within one year 1 4 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 31 1,651 1,634 Share premium account 31 56 5,818 Capital redemption reserve 32 384 309 Retained earnings 32 8,990 1,468 Total shareholders equity 11,081 9,229 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 11,082 9,233 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Marcus Agius Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Christopher Lucas Group Finance Director 180 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Profit after tax 3,289 1,964 2,012 Total recognised income and expense for the year 3,289 1,964 2,012 Cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 3,289 1,964 2,012 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in other assets 3 13 1 Net decrease increase in other liabilities 3 1 Net cash from operating activities 3,283 1,951 2,012 Capital contribution to subsidiaries 1,434 Purchase of shares in subsidiaries 316 179 135 Net cash used in investing activities 1,750 179 135 Proceeds from issue of shares 2,494 179 135 Dividends paid 2,129 1,814 1,612 Repurchase of ordinary shares 1,802 Net cash used in financing activities 1,437 1,635 1,477 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 96 137 400 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 575 438 38 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 671 575 438 3 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 671 575 438 Net cash from operating activities includes: Dividends received 3,287 1,964 2,012 Interest received 4 44 The parent companys sole activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Investment Netherlands N. V. and Odysseus Jersey No.
The Company was not exposed at 31st December 2007 or 2006 to significant risks arising from the financial instruments it holds: which mainly comprised cash and balances with central banks.
Dividends received are treated as operating income.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 181 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 1 Dividends per share The Directors have recommended the final dividends in respect of 2007 of 22.5p per ordinary share of 25p each and 10p per staff share of 1 each, amounting to a total of 1,485m, which will be paid on 25th April 2008.
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2007 do not reflect these dividends, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31st December 2008.
The financial statements to 31st December 2007 include the 2006 final dividend of 1,307m.
Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
Similarly, other interest expense principally includes interest expense relating to repurchase agreements and hedging activity.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14.
3 Net fee and commission income 2007 2006 2005 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 109 70 64 Investment management fees 1,787 1,535 1,250 Securities lending 241 185 151 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 6,363 6,031 4,805 Foreign exchange commissions 178 184 160 Fee and commission income 8,678 8,005 6,430 Brokerage fees paid 970 828 725 Fee and commission expense 970 828 725 Net fee and commission income 7,708 7,177 5,705 182 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 4 Principal transactions 2007 2006 2005 m m m Rates related business 4,162 2,848 1,732 Credit related business 403 766 589 Net trading income 3,759 3,614 2,321 Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 560 307 120 Dividend income 26 15 22 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 293 447 389 Other investment income 337 193 327 Net investment income 1,216 962 858 Principal transactions 4,975 4,576 3,179 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to market value, together with the interest income and expense from these instruments and the related funding cost.
Of the total net trading income, a 756m loss 2006: 947m gain, 2005: 498m gain was made on securities and 640m gain 2006: 480m, 2005: 340m was earned in foreign exchange dealings.
The net gain on financial assets designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 78m 2006: 489m, 2005: 391m of which losses of 215m 2006: 42m gain, 2005: 2m gain were included in net trading income and gains of 293m 2006: 447m, 2005: 389m were included in net investment income.
The net loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 231m 2006: 920m, 2005: 666m all of which was included within net trading income.
The net gain from widening of credit spreads relating to Barclays Capital issued notes held at fair value was 658m 2006: nil, 2005: nil.
5 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits 2007 2006 2005 m m m Gross premiums from insurance contracts 1,062 1,108 909 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 51 48 37 3 Net premiums from insurance contracts 1,011 1,060 872 2007 2006 2005 m m m Gross claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 520 588 694 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 28 13 49 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 492 575 645 6 Other income 2007 2006 2005 m m m Increase in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,592 7,417 9,234 Increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,592 7,417 9,234 Property rentals 53 55 54 Other income 135 159 93 Other income 188 214 147 Included in other income are sub-lease receipts of 18m 2006: 18m, 2005: 18m.
Included in other income in 2007 is a loss on the part disposal of Monument credit card portfolio and gains on reinsurance transactions in 2007 and 2006.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 183 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 7 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 2007 2006 2005 m m m Impairment charges on loans and advances New and increased impairment allowances 2,871 2,722 2,129 Releases 338 389 333 Recoveries 227 259 222 Impairment charges on loans and advances 2,306 2,074 1,574 Other credit provisions Charge release in respect of provision for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 476 6 7 Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions 2,782 2,068 1,567 Impairment on available for sale assets 13 86 4 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 2,795 2,154 1,571 An analysis of the impairment charges by class of financial instrument is included in Note 47 Credit risk.
8 Staff costs 2007 2006 2005 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 6,993 6,635 5,036 Social security costs 508 502 412 Pension costs defined contribution plans 141 128 76 Pension costs defined benefit plans Note 30 150 282 271 Other post-retirement benefits Note 30 10 30 27 Other 603 592 496 Staff costs 8,405 8,169 6,318 Included in salaries and incentive payments is 551m 2006: 640m, 2005: 338m arising from equity settled share-based payments, of which 60m 2006: 78m, 2005: 44m is a charge related to options-based schemes.
Also included is 8m 2006: 6m, 2005: nil arising from cash settled sharebased payments.
The average number of persons employed by the Group worldwide during the year was 128,900 2006: 118,600, 2005: 92,800.
9 Administration and general expenses 2007 2006 2005 m m m Administrative expenses 3,978 3,980 3,443 Impairment charges property and equipment Note 23 2 14 intangible assets Note 22 14 79 Operating lease rentals 414 345 316 Gain on property disposals 267 432 Administration and general expenses 4,141 3,914 3,768 Auditors remuneration 2007 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 12 12 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 6 2 8 Other services relating to taxation 8 8 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 5 5 Other 2 24 Total auditors remuneration 25 4 8 7 44 184 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 9 Administration and general expenses continued Auditors remuneration continued 2006 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 11 11 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 10 1 11 Other services relating to taxation 6 6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 4 4 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 28 5 6 5 44 2005 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 6 6 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 8 8 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 1 1 Other services relating to taxation 4 4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 3 3 Other 7 7 Total auditors remuneration 15 7 4 3 29 The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys subsidiaries were 2m 2006: 2m, 2005: 3m.
Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated 3 pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
The fees relating to the audit of the associated pension schemes were 0.3m 2006: 0.3m, 2005: 0.3m.
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These includes audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
In addition, other services include Section 404 advisory, IFRS advisory, securitisations and services relating to acquisition activities.
Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and accounting consultations and audits in connection with such transactions.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 185 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 10 Tax The charge for tax is based upon the standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006: 30%, 2005: 30% and comprises: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Current tax charge Current year 2,385 1,929 1,583 Adjustment for prior years 11 8 59 Total 2,374 1,937 1,524 Deferred tax credit charge Current year 367 16 14 Adjustment for prior years 26 20 71 Total 393 4 85 Tax charge 1,981 1,941 1,439 The effective tax rate for the years 2007, 2006 and 2005 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2006: 30%, 2005: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Profit before tax 7,076 7,136 5,280 Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006: 30%, 2005: 30% 2,123 2,141 1,584 Adjustment for prior years 37 24 133 Differing overseas tax rates 77 17 35 Non-taxable gains and income including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses 136 393 129 Share-based payments 72 27 12 Deferred tax assets not previously recognised 158 4 7 Change in tax rates 24 43 Other non-allowable expenses 170 159 168 Overall tax charge 1,981 1,941 1,439 Effective tax rate 28% 27% 27% 11 Earnings per share 2007 2006 2005 m m m Profit attributable to equity holders of parent 4,417 4,571 3,447 Dilutive impact of convertible options 25 30 38 Profit attributable to equity holders of parent including dilutive impact of convertible options 4,392 4,541 3,409 2007 2006 2005 million million million Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 6,410 6,357 6,337 Number of potential ordinary shares 177 150 149 Diluted weighted average number of shares 6,587 6,507 6,486 p pp Basic earnings per share 68.9 71.9 54.4 Diluted earnings per share 66.7 69.8 52.6 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the number of basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held in employee benefits trusts and shares held for trading.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is adjusted for the conversion of outstanding options into shares within Absa Group Limited and Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding own shares held in employee benefit trusts and shares held for trading, is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, totalling 177 million 2006: 150 million, 2005: 149 million.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31st December 2007, none were anti-dilutive 2006: 5 million 2005: nil.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group continued to make on-market purchases of treasury shares under its various employee share schemes.
No adjustment has been made to earnings per share in respect of these purchases.
186 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 12 Trading portfolio 2007 2006 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 2,094 2,960 Debt securities 152,778 140,576 Equity securities 36,307 31,548 Traded loans 1,780 1,843 Commodities 732 940 Trading portfolio assets 193,691 177,867 Trading portfolio liabilities Treasury and other eligible bills 486 608 Debt securities 50,506 58,142 Equity securities 13,702 12,697 Commodities 708 427 Trading portfolio liabilities 65,402 71,874 13 Financial assets designated at fair value Held on own account 2007 2006 m m Loans and advances 23,491 13,196 Debt securities 24,217 12,100 Equity securities 5,376 3,711 Other financial assets 3,545 2,792 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 56,629 31,799 The maximum exposure to credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value at 31st December 2007 was 23,491m 2006: 13,196m.
3 The amount by which related credit derivatives and similar instruments mitigate the exposure to credit risk at 31st December was 2,605m 2006: 28m.
The net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value was 401m in 2007 2006: nil: 2005: nil.
The gains or losses on related credit derivatives was 4m for the year 2006: nil: 2005: nil.
The cumulative net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value since initial recognition is 401m at 31st December 2007 2006: 3m: 2005: 3m.
The cumulative change in fair value of related credit derivatives at 31st December 2007 is 4m 2006: nil: 2005: nil.
Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts liabilities arising from investment contracts 2007 2006 m m Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 90,851 82,798 Cash and bank balances within the portfolio 1,788 1,839 Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 92,639 84,637 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 92,639 84,637 A portion of the Groups fund management business takes the legal form of investment contracts, under which legal title to the underlying investment is held by the Group, but the inherent risks and rewards in the investments are borne by the investors.
In the normal course of business, the Groups financial interest in such investments is restricted to fees for investment management services.
Due to the nature of these contracts, the carrying value of the assets is always the same as the value of the liabilities and any change in the value of the assets results in an equal but opposite change in the value of the amounts due to the policyholders.
The Group is therefore not exposed to the financial risks market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk inherent in the investments and they are omitted from the disclosures on financial risks in Notes 46 to 48.
In the balance sheet, the assets are included as Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
Cash balances within the portfolio have been included in the Groups cash balances.
The associated obligation to deliver the value of the investments to customers at their fair value on balance sheet date is included as Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
The increase decrease in the value arising from the return on the investments and the corresponding increase decrease in linked liabilities to customers is included in the Other income note in Note 6.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 187 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 14 Derivative financial instruments Financial instruments The Groups objectives and policies on managing the risks that arise in connection with derivatives, including the policies for hedging, are included in Note 45 to Note 48 under the headings Financial Risks, Market Risk, Credit Risk and Liquidity Risk.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities as a result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favourable or unfavourable and, thus the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly.
The fair value of a derivative contract represents the amount at which that contract could be exchanged in an arms-length transaction, calculated at market rates current at the balance sheet date.
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for trading are set out in the following table: 2007 2006 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract Year ended 31st December amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Derivatives held for trading m m m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 1,041,781 11,381 11,629 767,734 8,074 7,808 Currency swaps 562,682 15,617 14,676 411,889 10,029 10,088 OTC options bought and sold 464,575 3,350 3,995 320,184 3,923 3,849 OTC derivatives 2,069,038 30,348 30,300 1,499,807 22,026 21,745 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 139,199 852 Exchange traded options bought and sold 132 115 Foreign exchange derivatives 2,208,369 30,348 30,300 1,500,774 22,026 21,745 Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 11,758,215 111,746 110,680 8,718,015 61,267 61,510 Forward rate agreements 1,960,106 755 738 1,335,594 337 374 OTC options bought and sold 3,776,600 27,337 26,944 2,301,239 13,977 13,558 OTC derivatives 17,494,921 139,838 138,362 12,354,848 75,581 75,442 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 903,516 1,057,767 188 256 Exchange traded options bought and sold 269,095 102 64 848,629 241 156 Exchange traded swaps 4,941,417 3,405,109 Interest rate derivatives 23,608,949 139,940 138,426 17,666,353 76,010 75,854 Credit derivatives Swaps 2,472,249 38,696 35,814 1,224,548 9,275 8,894 Equity and stock index derivatives OTC options bought and sold 145,399 11,293 15,743 114,227 11,171 15,613 Equity swaps and forwards 36,149 1,057 1,193 24,580 656 846 OTC derivatives 181,548 12,350 16,936 138,807 11,827 16,459 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 31,519 30,159 154 176 Exchange traded options bought and sold 30,930 848 2,200 30,473 161 171 Equity and stock index derivatives 243,997 13,198 19,136 199,439 12,142 16,806 Commodity derivatives OTC options bought and sold 95,032 4,496 4,720 52,899 2,568 2,443 Commodity swaps and forwards 276,102 19,075 18,039 164,863 14,933 13,497 OTC derivatives 371,134 23,571 22,759 217,762 17,501 15,940 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 228,465 68,710 13 33 Exchange traded options bought and sold 66,732 1,197 943 9,169 306 474 Commodity derivatives 666,331 24,768 23,702 295,641 17,820 16,447 Derivative assets liabilities held for trading 29,199,895 246,950 247,378 20,886,755 137,273 139,746 188 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table: 2007 2006 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Year ended 31st December m m m m m m Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 38,453 239 437 51,614 132 312 Equity options 54 41 Forward foreign exchange 2,256 178 Exchange traded interest rate swaps 14,529 12,077 Commodity swaps and forwards 204 89 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 55,292 458 437 63,895 132 401 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Currency swaps 4,299 81 75 1,454 233 Interest rate swaps 18,450 323 195 16,940 240 152 Equity options 1,203 58 58 1,029 58 56 Forward foreign exchange 66 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 23,952 462 328 19,489 298 441 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments Forward foreign exchange 4,223 31 57 2,730 78 Currency swaps 8,397 187 88 9,320 650 31 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investment 12,620 218 145 12,050 650 109 Derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 91,864 1,138 910 95,434 1,080 951 Interest rate derivatives, designated as cash flow hedges, primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow variability from interest rates of variable rate loans to banks and customers, variable rate debt securities held and highly probable forecast financing transactions and reinvestments.
Interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges primarily hedge the interest rate risk of fixed rate borrowings in issue, fixed rate loans to banks and customers and investments in fixed rate debt securities held.
Currency derivatives are primarily designated as hedges of the foreign currency risk of net investments in foreign operations.
3 The Groups total derivative asset and liability position as reported on the balance sheet is as follows: 2007 2006 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Year ended 31st December m m m m m m Total derivative assets liabilities held for trading 29,199,895 246,950 247,378 20,886,755 137,273 139,746 Total derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 91,864 1,138 910 95,434 1,080 951 Derivative assets liabilities 29,291,759 248,088 248,288 20,982,189 138,353 140,697 Derivative assets and liabilities subject to counterparty netting agreements amounted to 199bn 2006: 102bn.
Additionally, we held 17bn 2006: 8bn of collateral against the net derivative assets exposure.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 189 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates.
These cash flows are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied: 2007 Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m Forecast receivable cash flows 4,329 1,593 987 903 535 254 57 Forecast payable cash flows 2,121 394 369 335 283 244 496 2006 Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m Forecast receivable cash flows 5,111 1,500 1,452 954 689 410 106 Forecast payable cash flows 1,280 704 349 121 73 30 3 The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding those forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments, is 10 years 2006: 8 years.
All gains or losses on hedging derivatives relating to forecast transactions, which are no longer expected to occur, have been recycled to the income statement.
A loss of 66m on hedging instruments was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income 2006: 460m.
A gain of 70m on the hedged items was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income 2006: 465m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to cash flow hedges in net interest income was a gain of 21m 2006: loss of 23m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to hedges of net investment was a gain of 4m 2006: 13m.
15 Loans and advances to banks and customers 2007 2006 m m Loans and advances to banks 40,123 30,930 Less: Allowance for impairment 3 4 Loans and advances to banks 40,120 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 349,167 285,631 Less: Allowance for impairment 3,769 3,331 Loans and advances to customers 345,398 282,300 190 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 16 Available for sale financial investments 2007 2006 m m Debt securities 38,673 47,912 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,723 2,420 Equity securities 1,676 1,371 Available for sale financial investments 43,072 51,703 2007 2006 Movement in available for sale financial investments m m At beginning of year 51,703 53,497 Exchange and other adjustments 1,499 3,999 Acquisitions and transfers 26,920 47,086 Disposals through sale and redemption 37,498 44,959 Gains from changes in fair value recognised in equity 486 162 Impairment 13 86 Amortisation of discounts premium 25 2 At end of year 43,072 51,703 17 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements Amounts included in the balance sheet and reported on a net basis where the Group has the intention and the legal ability to settle net or realise simultaneously were as follows: Amounts advanced to counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral provided under stock borrowing agreements are treated as collateralised loans receivable.
The related securities purchased or borrowed subject to an agreement with the counterparty to repurchase them are not recognised on balance sheet where the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty.
a Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 2007 2006 m m Banks 86,710 85,336 Customers 96,365 88,754 3 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral held on securities borrowed 183,075 174,090 b Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent Securities that are not recorded on the balance sheet for example, securities that have been obtained as a result of reverse repurchase and stock borrow transactions may also be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase such securities remain off balance sheet.
In both instances, amounts received from counterparty are treated as liabilities, which at 31st December were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Banks 97,297 79,833 Customers 72,132 57,123 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 169,429 136,956 18 Other assets 2007 2006 m m Sundry debtors 4,042 4,298 Prepayments 551 658 Accrued income 400 722 Reinsurance assets 157 172 Other assets 5,150 5,850 Included in the above are balances of 3,859m 2006: 5,065m expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,291m 2006: 785m expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Other assets comprise 3,966m 2006: 4,097m of receivables which meet the definition of financial assets.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 191 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 19 Current and deferred tax The components of taxes are as follows: 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current tax 518 1,311 557 1,020 Deferred tax 2,334 1,726 2,005 1,523 Deferred taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 482 14 Income statement credit charge 393 4 Equity Available for sale investments 13 4 Cash flow hedges 132 128 Share-based payments 63 24 Other equity movements 125 48 Acquisitions and disposals 33 264 Exchange and other adjustments 7 32 At end of year 608 482 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax depreciation 803 705 Available for sale investments 101 116 Cash flow hedges 51 Other 771 702 Deferred tax liabilities 1,726 1,523 Deferred tax assets Pensions and other retirement benefits 491 622 Allowance for impairment on loans 108 69 Other provisions 377 436 Cash flow hedges 44 91 Tax losses carried forward 215 1 Share-based payments 428 380 Other 671 406 Deferred tax assets 2,334 2,005 Net deferred tax asset 608 482 Disclosed as deferred tax liabilities 855 282 Disclosed as deferred tax assets 1,463 764 Net deferred tax asset 608 482 192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 19 Current and deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to set off and the balances relate to income tax payable to the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within the same tax group where there is the intention and ability to settle on a net basis or realise the assets and liabilities simultaneously.
The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is 1,468m 2006: 1,046m.
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is 1,950m 2006: 1,582m.
The deferred tax assets balance includes 450m 2006: 106m which is the excess deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities in entities which have suffered a loss in either the current or prior year.
This is based on management assessment that it is probable that the relevant entities will have taxable profits against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The deferred tax credit charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2007 2006 m m Accelerated tax depreciation 118 120 Pensions and other retirement benefits 96 24 Allowance for impairment on loans 28 30 Other provisions 165 105 Tax losses carry forward 214 25 Available for sale investments 1 8 Cash flow hedges 14 Share-based payments 100 77 Other 99 101 Total 393 4 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2007 2006 m m Deductible temporary differences gross 247 395 Unused tax losses gross 1,683 190 Unused tax credits 126 98 The following tax losses expire: 9m in 2008 to 2011, 9m in 2011, 9m in 2012 and 1,201m in 2027.
The other tax losses, tax credits and temporary 3 differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
The unused tax losses include amounts relating to non-UK branches of Barclays Bank PLC where the future tax benefit might be restricted to the amount in excess of the UK rate.
The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 5,722m 2006: 3,387m.
The tax charge for the period was based on a UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006: 30%.
The effective rate of tax for 2007, based on profit before tax, was 28% 2006: 27.2%.
The effective tax rate differed from 30% as it took account of the different tax rate applied to profits earned outside the UK, non-taxable gains and income and adjustments to prior year tax provisions.
The forthcoming change in the UK rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28% on 1st April 2008 led to an additional tax charge in 2007 as a result of its effect on the Groups net deferred tax asset.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 193 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 20 Investment in associates and joint ventures Share of net assets Associates Joint ventures Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m At beginning of year 74 427 154 119 228 546 Share of results before tax 35 63 10 6 45 57 Share of tax 2 10 1 1 3 11 Share of post-tax results 33 53 9 7 42 46 Dividends paid 17 17 New investments 7 2 8 7 15 9 Acquisitions 56 51 150 102 206 153 Disposals 47 404 72 72 119 476 Exchange and other adjustments 33 38 38 5 5 33 At end of year 90 74 287 154 377 228 Goodwill included above: Associates Joint ventures Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 1 122 40 83 41 205 Acquisitions Disposals 1 121 16 17 121 Transfer 3 43 3 43 At end of year 1 27 40 27 41 The fair value of the Groups investment in Ambit Properties Limited, an associate listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, is 42m.
Disposal of associates and joint ventures On 29th June 2007 and 2nd July 2007, the Group disposed of its investment in Gabetti Property Solutions for cash consideration, net of transaction costs of 13m, which after deducting the Groups share of its net assets on the dates of disposal, resulted in a profit of 8m.
On 24th September 2007, the Group disposed of its investment in Intelenet Global Services for a cash consideration, net of transaction costs of 22m, which, after deducting the Groups share of its net assets on the date of disposal, resulted in a profit of 13m.
Summarised financial information for the Groups associates and joint ventures is set out below: 2007 2006 Joint Joint Associates ventures Associates ventures m m m m Property, plant and equipment 588 632 599 142 Financial investments 239 8 42 Trading portfolio assets 1 Loans to banks and customers 516 2,372 1,378 797 Other assets 1,387 314 541 199 Total assets 2,730 3,326 2,523 1,140 Deposits from banks and customers 1,515 2,189 1,421 769 Trading portfolio liabilities 1 Other liabilities 902 458 887 187 Shareholders equity 313 679 214 184 Total liabilities 2,730 3,326 2,523 1,140 Net income 528 340 538 178 Operating expenses 404 292 334 178 Profit before tax 124 48 204 Profit after tax 104 40 186 2 The amounts included above, which include the entire assets, liabilities and net income of the investees, not just the Groups share, are based on accounts made up to 31st December 2007 with the exception of certain undertakings for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.
Associates and joint ventures in 2007 includes 1,728m 2006: 1,525m of assets, 1,537m 2006: 1,380m of liabilities and 18m 2006: 25m of profit after tax in associates and joint ventures within the Absa Group.
The Groups share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures is 6m 2006: nil.
194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 21 Goodwill 2007 2006 m m Net book value At beginning of year 6,092 6,022 Acquisitions 879 390 Disposals 17 14 Exchange and other adjustments 60 306 At end of year 7,014 6,092 Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments identified by the Group under IAS 14, as follows: 2007 2006 m m UK Banking 3,131 3,132 Barclaycard 400 403 International Retail and Commercial Banking 1,682 1,481 Barclays Capital 147 86 Barclays Global Investors 1,261 673 Barclays Wealth 393 317 Goodwill 7,014 6,092 The Barclays Financial Planning business previously managed and reported within Barclays Wealth, is now managed and reported within UK Banking.
Goodwill of 312m relating to this business has been transferred to UK Banking and the comparative figures restated.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred by comparing the carrying value to its recoverable amount.
Impairment testing of goodwill The recoverable amount of each operations goodwill is based on value-in-use calculations.
The calculation is based upon discounting expected pre-tax cash flows at a risk adjusted interest rate appropriate to the cash generating unit, the determination of both of which requires the exercise of judgement.
The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash flows.
While forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic data, expected cash flows naturally reflect managements view of future performance.
At 31st December 2007, the goodwill allocated to UK Banking of 3,131m 2006: 3,132m included 3,130m 2006: 3,130m relating to Woolwich, 3 and the amount allocated to International Retail and Commercial Banking of 1,682m 2006: 1,481m included 1,054m 2006: 953m relating to Absa.
The remaining aggregate goodwill of 2,830m 2006: 2,009m comprised of balances not considered individually significant.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations for significant goodwill The values assigned to key assumptions reflect past experience and management judgement.
The recoverable amount calculations performed for the significant amounts of goodwill are sensitive to changes in the following key assumptions: Term of cash flow forecasts and growth rates Cash flows are based on internal management information for a period of up to three years, after which a growth factor suitable for the business is applied.
Growth rates are based on the projected local inflation rates over the term of estimated cash flows.
The business operation containing Woolwich has applied a growth factor of 2% proxy for inflation to cash flows for the period 2011 to 2016.
Absa has applied a growth rate of 8% to cash flows for the three years 2011 to 2013, and a rate of 4% for the years 2014 to 2021.
The use of longer cash flow projections is justified by the long-term nature of these businesses within the Barclays Group.
Discount rates The business operation containing Woolwich has applied a discount factor of 15%, and Absa has applied 13.62% to forecast cash flows used in the impairment testing.
Management believes that reasonable changes in key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amounts of Absa and Woolwich goodwill will not result in impairment.
No impairment was identified in 2007 or 2006.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 195 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 22 Intangible assets 2007 Internally Core Mortgage generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2007 267 123 242 145 467 122 140 1,506 Acquisitions 54 23 77 Additions 118 56 3 4 181 Exchange and other adjustments 39213 2 16 At 31st December 2007 388 188 244 149 524 126 161 1,780 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2007 116 29 24 22 64 10 26 291 Amortisation charge 45 13 11 15 36 54 12 186 Impairment charge 14 14 Exchange and other adjustments 2 1 2 1 1 7 At 31st December 2007 163 57 37 38 101 64 38 498 Net book value 225 131 207 111 423 62 123 1,282 2006 Internally Core Mortgage generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2006 188 43 306 183 582 139 1,441 Acquisitions 114 2 116 Additions 95 86 16 13 210 Exchange and other adjustments 16 6 64 38 115 8 14 261 At 31st December 2006 267 123 242 145 467 122 140 1,506 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2006 90 18 7 9 29 19 172 Amortisation charge 29 7 20 16 44 11 9 136 Impairment charge 2 5 7 Exchange and other adjustments 5 1 33912 24 At 31st December 2006 116 29 24 22 64 10 26 291 Net book value 151 94 218 123 403 112 114 1,215 Impairment charges reflect the impairment of certain IT assets where the future economic benefit did not exceed the carrying value.
Impairment charges detailed above have been included within other operating expenses.
196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 23 Property, plant and equipment 2007 2006 Operating Operating leased leased Property Equipment assets Total Property Equipment assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2,154 2,429 365 4,948 2,450 2,541 365 5,356 Acquisitions and disposals 513 18 Additions 506 638 105 1,249 180 475 655 Disposals 241 112 57 410 422 382 804 Fully depreciated assets written off 1 8 9 1 89 90 Exchange and other adjustments 28 35 63 53 116 169 At 31st December 2,451 2,995 413 5,859 2,154 2,429 365 4,948 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1st January 993 1,454 9 2,456 1,022 1,575 5 2,602 Acquisitions and disposals 1 7 8 Depreciation charge 91 370 6 467 118 335 2 455 Impairment charge 2 2 14 14 Disposals 58 37 95 148 341 489 Fully depreciated assets written off 18 9 189 90 Exchange and other adjustments 16 18 34 12 26 2 36 At 31st December 1,044 1,804 15 2,863 993 1,454 9 2,456 Net book value 1,407 1,191 398 2,996 1,161 975 356 2,492 Operating leased assets represent assets such as plant and equipment leased to customers under operating leases.
Certain of the Groups equipment is held on finance leases.
In 2007 the value of an existing office building in the UK property portfolio was impaired by 2m reflecting local market conditions that had prevented its disposal in the year.
In 2008 the freehold of the building will be disposed of by a shortor long-term leaseback.
Consequently the value has been written down to fair value, less cost of sale.
3 24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2007 2006 Contractual Contractual amount amount due on Fair due on Fair value maturity value maturity m m m m Debt securities 52,320 62,167 32,261 37,393 Deposits 17,319 18,140 19,990 20,465 Other 4,850 6,239 1,736 2,913 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 74,489 86,546 53,987 60,771 The amount of change in the fair value of financial liabilities attributable to changes in own credit risk of these liabilities in 2007 is 658m.
There were no significant gains or losses attributable to changes in own credit risk for financial liabilities in 2006.
25 Other liabilities 2007 2006 m m Accruals and deferred income 6,075 6,127 Sundry creditors 4,341 4,118 Obligations under finance leases Note 37 83 92 Other liabilities 10,499 10,337 Included in the above are balances of 9,043m 2006: 9,265m expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,456m 2006: 1,072m expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income included 102m 2006: 107m in relation to deferred income from investment contracts and 677m 2006: 822m in relation to deferred income from insurance contracts.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 197 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 26 Insurance assets and liabilities Insurance assets Reinsurance assets are 157m 2006: 172m and relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Reinsurers share of provisions relating to the Groups short-term business are 94m 2006: 82m.
The reinsurance assets expected to be recovered after more than one year are 63m 2006: 92m.
Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities Insurance liabilities comprise the following: 2007 2006 m m Insurance contract liabilities: linked liabilities 1,398 1,591 non-linked liabilities 2,347 2,121 Provision for claims 158 166 Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities 3,903 3,878 Insurance contract liabilities relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Groups short-term non-life business are 174m 2006: 198m.
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Movements in insurance assets and insurance contract liabilities were as follows: 2007 2006 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m At beginning of year 3,878 172 3,706 3,767 114 3,653 Change in year 25 15 40 111 58 53 At end of year 3,903 157 3,746 3,878 172 3,706 Assumptions used to measure insurance liabilities The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised above, and the processes used to determine them were as follows: Long-term business linked and non-linked Mortality mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Groups own experience.
A margin is added to ensure prudence for example, future mortality improvements for annuity business.
Renewal expenses level and inflation expense reserves are a small part of overall insurance liabilities, however, increases in expenses caused by unanticipated inflation or other unforeseen factors could lead to expense reserve increases.
Expenses are therefore set using prudent assumptions.
Initial renewal expense levels are set by considering expense forecasts for the business and, where appropriate, building in a margin to allow for the increasing burden of fixed costs on the UK closed life book of business.
The inflation assumption is set by adding a margin to the market rate of inflation implied by index-linked gilt yields.
Short-term business Short-term business for single premium policies the proportion of unearned premiums is calculated based on estimates of the frequency and severity of incidents.
Changes in assumptions There have been no changes in assumptions in 2007 that have had a material effect on the financial statements.
Uncertainties associated with cash flows related to insurance contracts and risk management activities Long-term insurance contracts linked and non-linked For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could detrimentally affect the frequency and severity of claims are the incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking.
Where survival is the insured risk, advances in medical care and social conditions are the key factors that increase longevity.
The Group manages its exposure to risk by operating in part as a unit-linked business, prudent product design, applying strict underwriting criteria, transferring risk to reinsurers, managing claims and establishing prudent reserves.
Short-term insurance contracts For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are the health of the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term economic factors.
The Group manages its exposure to such risks through prudent product design, efficient claims management, prudent reserving methodologies and bases, regular product, economic and market reviews and regular adequacy tests on the size of the reserves.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most significant factors that could effect the frequency and severity of claims are climatic change and crime.
Absa manages its exposure to risk by diversifying insurance risks accepted and transferring risk to reinsurers.
198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 26 Insurance assets and liabilities continued Sensitivity analysis The following table presents the sensitivity of the level of insurance contract liabilities disclosed in this note to movements in the actuarial assumptions used to calculate them.
The percentage change in variable is applied to a range of existing actuarial modelling assumptions to derive the possible impact on net profit after tax.
The disclosure is not intended to explain the impact of a percentage change in the insurance assets and liabilities disclosed above.
2007 2006 Net profit Net profit Change in after tax Change in after tax variable impact variable impact %m %m Long-term insurance contracts: Improving mortality annuitants only 10 21 10 23 Worsening of mortality assured lives only 10 29 10 25 Worsening of base renewal expense level 20 43 20 23 Worsening of expense inflation rate 10 10 10 9 Short-term insurance contracts: Worsening of claim expense assumptions 10 3 10 9 Any change in net profit after tax would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in shareholders equity.
The above analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice this is unlikely to occur.
Options and guarantees The Groups contracts do not contain options or guarantees that could confer material risk.
Concentration of insurance risk The Group considers that the concentration of insurance risk that is most relevant to the Group financial statements is according to the type of cover offered and the location of insured risk.
The following table shows the maximum amounts payable under all of the Groups insurance products.
It ignores the probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the insurance policies.
The table shows the broad product types and the location of the insured risk, before and after the impact of reinsurance that represents the risk that is passed to other insurers.
2007 2006 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by product type 3 Long term insurance contracts 31,205 10,497 20,708 24,934 9,445 15,489 Short term insurance contracts 31,464 1,139 30,325 39,870 901 38,969 Total benefits insured 62,669 11,636 51,033 64,804 10,346 54,458 2007 2006 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by geographic location United Kingdom 22,538 7,473 15,065 25,403 8,010 17,393 Other European Union 4,304 2,479 1,825 3,317 1,802 1,515 Africa 35,827 1,684 34,143 36,084 534 35,550 Total benefits insured 62,669 11,636 51,033 64,804 10,346 54,458 Reinsurer credit risk For the long-term business, reinsurance programmes are in place to restrict the amount of cover to any single life.
The reinsurance cover is spread across highly rated companies to diversify the risk of reinsurer solvency.
Net insurance reserves include a margin to reflect reinsurer credit risk.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 199 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 27 Subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities comprise dated and undated loan capital as follows: 2007 2006 m m Undated loan capital a 6,631 5,422 Dated loan capital b 11,519 8,364 18,150 13,786 a Undated loan capital 2007 2006 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes a, p 392 404 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes US$1,000m a, p 624 571 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments b, q 520 501 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,350m c, r 708 690 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments n, ad 526 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,250m o, ae 660 Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes US$121m d, s 61 62 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 d, t 147 146 9.875% Undated Subordinated Notes e, u 319 319 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich plc f, v 171 178 9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds g, w 102 102 7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes h, x 535 550 6.875% Undated Subordinated Notes i, y 657 656 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes j, z 482 481 6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes k, aa 560 571 6.5% Undated Subordinated Notes FFr 1,000m l, ab 115 105 5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 8,000m m, ac 21 34 5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 12,000m m, ac 31 52 Undated loan capital non-convertible 6,631 5,422 Security and subordination None of the undated loan capital of the Bank is secured.
The Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes the Junior Notes rank behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated loan capital.
All other issues of the Banks undated loan capital rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Junior Notes, except for the 6% and 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes the TONs and the 5.3304%, 5.926%, 6.3688% and 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments the RCIs such issues, excluding the TONs and the RCIs, being the Undated Notes and Loans.
The TONs and the RCIs rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Undated Notes and Loans.
Interest Notes a These TONs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2032.
After that date, in the event that the TONs are not redeemed, the TONs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
b These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2036.
After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
c These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2016.
d These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
e These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2008.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
f These Bonds bear a fixed rate of interest until 2021.
After that date, in the event that the Bonds are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
g The interest rate on these Bonds is fixed for the life of this issue.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2020.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 27 Subordinated liabilities continued j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2027.
l These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on European interbank rates.
m These Loans bear a fixed rate of interest until 2028 based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable, which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that the Loans are not redeemed, the Loans will bear Yen interest rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
n These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019.
o These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes and Loans excluding the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital.
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances.
During the year, the Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.
No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs b, c, n and o above.
Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of i the date of redemption of the RCIs, and ii the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or Preference Shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the FSA.
Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs.
Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may i declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the Banks Reserve Capital Instruments and ii certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.
Repayment Notes 3 p These TONs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2032. q These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2036. r These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2016. s These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole or in part on any interest payment date.
t These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
u These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2008, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
v These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2021, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
w These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole at any time.
x These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2020, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
y These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2015, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
z These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2017, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
aa These Notes are repayable at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2027, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ab These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2009, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ac These Loans are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2028, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ad These RCIs are repayable at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2019. ae These RCIs are repayable at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2017.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole for certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest payment date.
There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior notification to the FSA.
All issues of undated loan capital have been made in the eurocurrency market and or under Rule 144A, and no issues have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 201 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 27 Subordinated liabilities continued b Dated loan capital Dated loan capital, issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Groups business and to strengthen its capital base, by Barclays Bank Spain SA Barclays Spain, Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd BBB, Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia and Barclays Bank of Kenya Barclays Kenya to enhance their respective capital bases and by Absa and Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG for general corporate purposes, comprise: 2007 2006 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 US$400m a 200 204 Subordinated Fixed to CMS-Linked Notes 2009 31m b 23 21 12% Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2010 a 27 27 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 1,000m a 724 676 5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011 250m ex-Woolwich plc a 200 186 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 301 Callable Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 44 Step-up Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Bonds 2012 ex-Woolwich plc 151 Callable Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 US$150m 77 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 US$100m 51 Capped Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 US$100m 51 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 US$1,000m b, n 501 513 5.015% Subordinated Notes 2013 US$150m a 77 77 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2013 750m a 583 540 5.5% Subordinated Notes 2013 DM 500m d, n 196 179 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2013 Yen 5,500m b, n 25 24 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$150m c, n 67 61 5.93% Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$100m e, n 44 41 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$1,500m b, n 753 767 4.38% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$75m a 30 37 4.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$150m a 85 76 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2016 US$750m b, n 375 382 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 1,250m b, n 927 844 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$500m b, n 250 255 10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 ex-Woolwich plc k, n 111 113 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 US$1,500m b, n 749 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 1,500m b, n 1,106 6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$2,250m a 1,125 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 40m b 29 27 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 50m b 36 32 Callable Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 1,000m l 761 696 9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021 ex-Woolwich plc a 282 290 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2021 100m b 72 66 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2022 50m b 37 34 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2023 50m b 37 34 Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2023 r, n 505 5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 a 600 608 5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan 2027 Yen 15,000m m 71 66 6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 a 49 50 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2040 100m b 73 67 Barclays Bank SA, Spain Barclays Spain Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2011 30m b 10 22 Absa 14.25% Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 ZAR 3,100m f, n 253 269 10.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 1,100m g, n 87 89 Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 400m h, n 29 29 8.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 ZAR 1,500m i, n 111 113 8.8% Subordinated Fixed Rate Callable Notes 2019 ZAR 1,725m s, n 123 8.1% Subordinated Callable Notes 2020 ZAR 2,000m j, n 138 143 Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG 14% Fixed Rate BBG Subordinated Callable Notes 2016 GHC 100,000m a, n 5 6 Barclays Bank of Kenya Barclays Kenya Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2014 KES 1,000m t 8 Dated loan capital non-convertible 11,494 8,339 202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 27 Subordinated liabilities continued 2007 2006 Notes m m Convertible Barclays Bank of Botswana BBB Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2014 BWP 100m n, o 8 9 Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2015 ZMK 40,000m n, p 6 5 Absa Redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares ZAR 147m q 11 11 Total convertible 25 25 None of the Groups dated loan capital is secured.
The debt obligations of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa rank ahead of the interests of holders of their equity.
Dated loan capital of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa has been issued on the basis that the claims there under are subordinated to the respective claims of their depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors.
Interest Notes a The interest rates on these Notes are fixed for the life of those issues.
b These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London or European interbank rates.
c These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Sydney Bill of exchange rates.
d These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2008.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Sydney Bill of exchange rates.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference rate for a further period of five years.
g These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2010.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
h These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates 3 fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
l These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
m This Loan bears a fixed rate of interest based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
n Repayable at the option of the issuer, prior to maturity, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole.
o These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Botswana Certificate Rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of BBB, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should BBB experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
p These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of Barclays Zambia, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should Barclays Zambia experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
q The dividends are compounded and payable semi-annually in arrears on 30th September and 31st March of each year.
The shares were issued by Absa Group Limited on 1st July 2004 and the redemption dates commence on the first business day after the third anniversary of the date of issue of the redeemable preference shares and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of issue.
Such exercise and notice will be deemed to be effective only on the option exercise dates, being 1st March, 1st June, 1st September or 1st December of each year.
The shares are convertible into ordinary shares at the option of the preference shareholders on the redemption dates in lots of 100. r These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018.
After that date in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
s These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
t These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Central Bank of Kenya Treasury Bill rates.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 203 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 27 Subordinated liabilities continued The 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 the 7.4% Notes issued by the Bank have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
All other issues of dated loan capital by the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa, which were made in non-US markets, have not been so registered.
With respect to the 7.4% Notes, the Bank is not obliged to make i a payment of interest on any interest payment date unless a dividend is paid on any class of share capital and ii a payment of principal until six months after the respective maturity date with respect to such Notes.
Repayment terms Unless otherwise indicated, the Groups dated loan capital outstanding at 31st December 2007 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases, to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or, in the case of BBB and Barclays Zambia to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require in the case of the Bank, the prior notification to the FSA, in the case of BBB, the prior approval of the Bank of Botswana, in the case of Barclays Zambia, the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia, and in the case of Absa, the prior approval of the South African Registrar of Banks.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
28 Provisions Undrawn contractually committed facilities Redundancy and Onerous and reguarantees Sundry contracts structuring provided provisions Total m m m m m At 1st January 2007 71 102 46 243 462 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 1 2 7473 Exchange 8 5 13 Additions 18 117 560 121 816 Amounts used 25 117 113 60 315 Unused amounts reversed 5 18 26 174 223 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2007 64 82 475 209 830 At 1st January 2006 79 74 55 309 517 Exchange 2 2 16 16 Additions 45 180 35 159 419 Amounts used 53 133 9 94 289 Unused amounts reversed 2 21 35 115 173 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2006 71 102 46 243 462 Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31st December 2007 were 645m 2006: 388m.
Sundry provisions are made with respect to commission clawbacks, warranties and litigation claims.
Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided includes 360m 2006: nil provision against undrawn facilities on ABS CDO Super Senior positions.
204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 29 Securitisations The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving Barclays residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances.
In addition, the Group acts as a conduit for commercial paper, whereby it acquires static pools of residential mortgage loans from other lending institutions for securitisation transactions.
In these transactions, the assets, or interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special purpose entity, or to a trust which then transfers its beneficial interests to a special purpose entity, which then issues floating rate debt securities to third-party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction: lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
Full derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset in the balance sheet: 2007 2006 Carrying Carrying amount of Associated amount of Associated assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 16,000 16,786 12,577 13,271 Credit card receivables 4,217 3,895 5,700 5,195 Other personal lending 422 485 229 255 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 8,493 8,070 5,852 5,303 Total 29,132 29,236 24,358 24,024 Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Retained interest in residential mortgage loans 895 628 Retained interests in residential mortgage loans are interest only strips which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets, the total amount of which was 23,097m 2006: 15,063m.
These are initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 205 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 30 Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The UK Retirement Fund UKRF, which is the main scheme of the Group, amounting to 94% of all the Groups schemes in terms of benefit obligations, comprises ten sections.
The 1964 Pension Scheme Most employees recruited before July 1997 are members of this non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
Pensions are calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary and are normally subject to a deduction from State pension age.
The Retirement Investment Scheme RIS A defined contribution plan for most joiners between July 1997 and 1st October 2003.
This was closed to new entrants on 1st October 2003 and the large majority of existing members of the RIS transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual with effect from 1st January 2004.
There are now no longer any active members of the RIS.
The Pension Investment Plan PIP A defined contribution plan created from 1st July 2001 to provide benefits for certain employees of Barclays Capital.
afterwork Combines a contributory cash balance element with a voluntary defined contribution element.
New employees since 1st October 2003 are eligible to join afterwork.
In addition, the large majority of active members of the RIS now closed were transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual after 1st January 2004.
Career Average Section The Career Average Section was established in the UKRF with effect from 1st May 2004 following the transfer of members from the Woolwich Pension Fund.
The Career Average Section is a non-contributory career average scheme and was closed to new entrants on 1st December 2006.
1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section, BCPS Section, CCS Section and Mercantile Section Five new sections were established in the UKRF with effect from 31st March 2007 following the merger of the UKRF with five smaller schemes sponsored from within the Group.
All five sections are closed to new members.
The 1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section and Mercantile Section provide final salary benefits calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary.
The BCPS and CCS Sections provide defined contribution benefits.
The benefits built up in these sections in relation to service before 6th April 1997 are subject to a defined benefit minimum.
In addition, the costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits are generally borne by the UKRF for each of the ten sections.
Governance The assets of the UKRF are held separately from the assets of the Group and are administered by trustees.
Barclays Pension Fund Trustees Ltd BPFTL acts as corporate trustee for the UKRF.
BPFTL is a private limited company, incorporated on 20th December 1990, and is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
As the corporate trustee for the UKRF, BPFTL is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF and BPFTL holds these assets in trust for the beneficiaries of the scheme.
BPFTL comprises nine Directors, of which six are Employer Directors selected by the Bank and three are Employee Directors nominated by the Pension Fund Advisory Committee PFAC.
Employee Directors are selected from those eligible active employees and pensioner members who apply to be considered for the role.
Employee Director vacancies are advertised to all eligible active and pensioner members.
This enables any eligible member with an interest in becoming an Employee Director to express that interest and be considered for the role.
The PFAC provides the mechanism through which Employee Directors are selected.
The PFAC will accept nominations from eligible members and select from amongst all properly nominated candidates.
There are also three Alternate Employer Directors and three Alternate Employee Directors.
The selection process for these appointments are as detailed above.
The role of alternate directors is to provide cover for individual directors, should they not be available for meetings.
Currently, the Bank decides the funding rate after consulting with the trustees.
Under the Pensions Act 2004, which has practical impact for the UKRF for the triennial valuation currently in progress with an effective date of 30th September 2007, the Bank and the trustee must agree the funding rate including a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme specific statutory funding objective.
In addition to the UKRF, there are other defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK and overseas.
The same approach to pensions governance applies to the other schemes in the UK but different legislation covers schemes outside of the UK where in most cases the Bank has the power to determine the funding rate.
206 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The following tables present an analysis of defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for all the Groups pension schemes and post-retirement benefits the latter are unfunded and present the amounts recognised in the income statement including those related to post-retirement health care.
Income statement charge 2007 2006 2005 Other postOther postOther postretirement retirement retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m m m m Staff cost charge Current service cost 332 2 334 378 21 399 348 22 370 Interest cost 905 8 913 900 8 908 853 4 857 Expected return on scheme assets 1,074 1,074 999 999 898 898 Recognised actuarial loss 1 1 3144 4 Past service cost 20 20 29 2913 1 14 Curtailment or settlements 32 32 29 29 49 49 Total included in staff costs 150 10 160 282 30 312 271 27 298 Staff costs are included in other operating expenses.
Change in benefit obligation 2007 2006 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at beginning of the year 17,256 894 97 76 18,323 18,149 938 103 79 19,269 Current service cost 317 15 1 1 334 358 20 20 1 399 Interest cost 869 36 4 4 913 863 37 4 4 908 Past service cost 20 20 4 25 29 Curtailments or settlements 35 1 36 43 2 45 Actuarial gain loss 1,292 25 19 1 1,337 1,566 15 11 3 1,589 Contributions by plan participants 19 2 21 15 2 17 3 Benefits paid 589 31 2 15 637 536 40 19 4 599 Business combinations 11 11 Exchange and other adjustments 2 23 21 33 33 12 60 7 55 Benefit obligation at end of the year 16,563 913 60 98 17,634 17,256 894 97 76 18,323 The benefit obligation arises from plans that are wholly unfunded and wholly or partly funded as follows: 2007 2006 m m Unfunded obligations 248 237 Wholly or partly funded obligations 17,386 18,086 Total 17,634 18,323 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 207 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Change in plan assets 2007 2006 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year 16,761 745 17,506 15,571 819 16,390 Expected return on plan assets 1,041 33 1,074 965 34 999 Employer contribution 355 34 2 15 406 357 26 2 4 389 Settlements 1 1 11 2 13 Contributions by plan participants 19 2 21 15 2 17 Actuarial loss gain 332 11 343 423 25 448 Benefits paid 589 31 2 15 637 536 30 2 4 572 Business combinations Exchange and other adjustments 24 25 1 23 129 152 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 17,231 796 18,027 16,761 745 17,506 Amounts recognised on balance sheet The pension and post-retirement benefit assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2007 2006 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at end of period 16,563 913 60 98 17,634 17,256 894 97 76 18,323 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 17,231 796 18,027 16,761 745 17,506 Net asset deficit 668 117 60 98 393 495 149 97 76 817 Unrecognised actuarial gains losses 1,912 7 3 14 1,894 953 20 17 14 902 Net recognised liability 1,244 110 63 84 1,501 1,448 129 80 62 1,719 Recognised assets 36 36 53 35 88 Recognised liability 1,244 146 63 84 1,537 1,501 164 80 62 1,807 Net recognised liability 1,244 110 63 84 1,501 1,448 129 80 62 1,719 The UKRF measured using the IAS 19 assumptions, has moved over the year from a 0.5bn deficit at 31st December 2006 to a surplus of 0.7bn at 31st December 2007.
The assumptions used for the current year and prior year are detailed on the next page.
Among the reasons for this change were the increase in AA long-term corporate bond yields which resulted in a higher discount rate of 5.82% 31st December 2006: 5.12%, partially offset by lower than expected returns, and an increase in the inflation assumption to 3.45% 31st December 2006: 3.08%.
A number of additional changes were made to the assumptions used in valuing the liabilities, including a decrease in the assumed rate of real salary increases to 0.5% 31st December 2006: 1%.
Mortality assumptions changed from those in force at 31st December 2006.
208 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions Obligations arising under defined benefit schemes are actuarially valued using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, where a defined benefit scheme is closed to new members, such as in the case of the 1964 Pension Scheme, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of salary is expected to increase in the future, although this higher rate will be applied to a decreasing payroll.
The latest actuarial IAS valuations were carried out as at 31st December using the following assumptions: UK schemes Overseas schemes 2007 2006 2007 2006 % p. a.
Discount rate 5.82 5.12 7.51 6.94 Rate of increase in salaries 3.95 4.08 5.60 5.66 Inflation rate 3.45 3.08 4.13 3.94 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.45 2.88 3.55 3.58 Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 3.30 3.08 2.50 2.24 Initial health care inflation 8.00 8.93 10.00 9.93 Long-term health care inflation 5.00 5.00 5.01 5.00 Expected return on plan assets 6.70 6.32 7.84 7.89 The expected return on plan assets assumption is weighted on the basis of the fair value of these assets.
Health care inflation assumptions are weighted on the basis of the health care cost for the period.
All other assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The UK Schemes discount rate assumption is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA corporate bond index.
The overseas health care inflation assumptions relate to the US and Mauritius.
Mortality assumptions The post-retirement mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UKRF were based on the standard 2000 series tables as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are considered to be most relevant to the population of the UKRF based on their mortality history.
These were then adjusted in line with the actual experience of the UKRFs own pensioners relative to the standard table.
An allowance has been made for future mortality improvements based on the medium cohort projections published by the CMIB.
On this basis the post-retirement mortality assumptions for the UKRF includes: 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Longevity at 60 for current pensioners years Males 26.7 25.8 25.8 25.7 23.3 Females 27.9 29.5 29.5 29.4 26.4 3 Longevity at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 years Males 28.0 27.1 27.1 27.0 24.9 Females 29.1 30.7 30.6 30.6 27.9 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 209 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions continued Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation of the UKRF are as follows: Impact on UKRF benefit obligation Decrease Decrease Increase Increase % bn 0.5% increase to: Discount rate 8.5 1.4 Rate of inflation 8.8 1.4 Rate of salary growth 1.3 0.2 1 year increase to longevity at 60 2.5 0.4 Post-retirement health care A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates, assuming all other assumptions remain constant would have the following effects for 2007: 1% increase 1% decrease m m Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1.9 1.3 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 19.9 14.6 Assets A long-term strategy has been set for the asset allocation of the UKRF which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more volatile than others.
The long-term strategy ensures that investments are adequately diversified.
Asset managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the trustee from time to time.
The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to liabilities.
The value of assets shown below reflects the actual physical assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a mark to market basis.
The expected return on asset assumptions, both for individual asset classes and overall, have been based on the portfolio of assets created after allowing for the net impact of the derivatives on the risk and return profile of the holdings.
The value of the assets of the schemes, their percentage in relation to total scheme assets, and their expected rate of return at 31st December 2007 and 31st December 2006 were as follows: 2007 UK schemes Overseas schemes Total % of Expected % of Expected % of Expected total fair rate total fair rate total fair rate value of of value of of value of of Value scheme return Value scheme return Value scheme return m assets % m assets % m assets % Equities 7,467 43 8.3 441 55 8.4 7,908 44 8.3 Bonds 7,445 43 5.1 300 38 7.6 7,745 43 5.2 Property 1,712 10 7.0 16 2 11.5 1,728 10 7.0 Derivatives 12 0.0 12 Cash 284 2 5.1 42 5 5.6 326 1 5.2 Other 335 2 5.3 3 332 2 5.4 a Fair value of plan assets 17,231 100 6.7 796 100 7.8 18,027 100 6.8 Note a Excludes 782m 2006: 613m representing the money purchase assets of the UKRF.
210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assets continued 2006 UK schemes Overseas schemes Total % of Expected % of Expected % of Expected total fair rate total fair rate total fair rate value of of value of of value of of Value scheme return Value scheme return Value scheme return m assets % m assets % m assets % Equities 7,285 43 7.9 337 45 9.4 7,622 44 8.0 Bonds 6.930 41 4.7 300 40 6.2 7,230 41 4.7 Property 1,995 12 6.4 15 2 13.4 2,010 11 6.6 Derivatives 21 n a 21 n a Cash 293 2 4.6 37 5 5.9 330 2 4.8 Other 237 2 5.9 56 8 9.4 293 2 6.6 a Fair value of plan asset 16,761 100 6.3 745 100 7.9 17,506 100 6.4 The UKRF plan assets include 39m relating to UK private equity investments 2006: 27m and 664m relating to overseas private equity investments 2006: 447m.
These are disclosed within Equities.
Amounts included in the fair value of plan assets include 6m 2006: 7m relating to shares in Barclays Group, 6m 2006: 10m relating to bonds issued by the Barclays Group, nil 2006: 1m relating to other investments in the Barclays Group, and 10m 2006: 8m relating to property occupied by Group companies.
The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on weighted average estimated returns for each asset class.
Asset class returns are estimated using current and projected economic and market factors such as inflation, credit spreads and equity risk premiums.
The actual return on plan assets was 731m 2006: 1,447m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 211 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Funding The most recent triennial funding valuation of the UK Retirement Fund was performed in September 2004 and forms the basis of the Groups commitment that the fund has sufficient assets to make payments to members in respect of their accrued benefits as and when they fall due.
This funding valuation uses a discount rate that reflects the assumed future return from the actual asset allocation at that date, and takes into account projected future salary increases when assessing liabilities arising from accrued service.
The funding valuation is updated annually on the basis of interim assumptions.
The UK Retirement Fund recorded a funding surplus of 1.2bn as at 31st December 2007 2006: 1.3bn.
The Group has agreed funding contributions which, in aggregate, are no less than those which are sufficient to meet the Groups share of the cost of benefits accruing over each year.
The Group has, in the recent past, chosen to make funding contributions in excess of this, more consistent with the IAS service cost.
Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows: m Contributions paid 2007 355 2006 351 2005 354 There is a triennial valuation currently in progress with an effective date of 30th September 2007.
To comply with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004, the Group and trustees plan to agree a scheme specific funding target, statement of funding principles, and a schedule of contributions which in 2008 will supersede those in place under the current actuarial funding valuation.
Excluding the UKRF, the Group is expected to pay contributions of approximately 2m to UK schemes and 41m to overseas schemes in 2008.
The total contribution to be paid in 2008 to the UKRF is not expected to be significantly different than in previous years.
31 Ordinary shares and share premium Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total mmmm At 1st January 2007 6,535 1,634 5,818 7,452 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 19 6 62 68 Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 10 2 40 42 a Issued under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1 1 a Issued under the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan 1 1 Transfer to retained earnings 7,223 7,223 Issue of new ordinary shares 337 84 1,357 1,441 Repurchase of shares 300 75 75 At 31st December 2007 6,601 1,651 56 1,707 At 1st January 2006 6,490 1,623 5,650 7,273 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 18 5 67 72 Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 25 6 96 102 a Issued under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1 3 3 a Issued under the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan 1 2 2 At 31st December 2006 6,535 1,634 5,818 7,452 The authorised share capital of Barclays PLC is 2,500m 2006: 2,500m, comprising 9,996 million 2006: 9,996 million ordinary shares of 25p each and 1 million 2006: 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
All issued shares are fully paid.
2007 2006 Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid m m Ordinary shares: At beginning of year 1,633 1,622 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 6 5 Issued under Incentive Share Option Plan 2 6 Issue of new ordinary shares 84 Repurchase of shares 75 At end of year 1,650 1,633 Staff shares 1 1 Total 1,651 1,634 Note a The nominal value for share options issued during 2007 and 2006 for the Executive Share Option Scheme and Woolwich ESOP was less than 500,000 in each case.
212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 31 Ordinary shares and share premium continued Issue of new ordinary shares On 14th August 2007, 336.8 million ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 84 million were issued for a cash consideration, before issue costs, of 2,425m.
The shares were issued to Temasek and China Development Bank at a market price of 7.20 per share.
The proceeds of the Temasek issuance in excess of nominal value and issue costs of 941m were credited to retained earnings.
This resulted from the operation of section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 with regard to the issue of shares by Barclays PLC in exchange for shares in Odysseus Jersey No1 Limited and the subsequent redemption of the no par value redeemable preference shares of that company for cash.
Share repurchase During the year Barclays PLC purchased in the market 300 million of its own ordinary shares of 25p each at a total cost of 1,802m in order to minimise the dilutive effect of the issuance of Barclays shares to Temasek and China Development Bank on existing shareholders.
These transactions represent 4.54% of the issued share capital at 31st December 2007.
All shares purchased during the period were open market transactions.
At the 2007 AGM on 26th April, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 980,840,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2008.
Cancellation of share premium account On 11th October 2007, the order of the High Court confirming the cancellation of 7,223m of the share premium account was registered with the Registrar of Companies.
This created 7,223m of additional distributable reserves in Barclays PLC.
The purpose of the cancellation of the share premium account was to create distributable profits in order to allow the payment of dividends following the completion of the share buy-back programme, the redemption of the preference shares which were to have been issued in connection with the proposed merger with ABN AMRO, and to provide maximum flexibility to manage the Groups capital resources.
Shares under option The Group has four schemes that give employees rights to subscribe for new shares in Barclays PLC.
A summary of the key terms of each scheme are included in Note 44.
At 31st December 2007, 74.0 million 2006: 78.9 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Sharesave Share Option Scheme Sharesave, 1.4 million 2006: 1.7 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, 0.5 million 2006: 0.7 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP and 20.5 million 2006: 77.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP, enabling certain Directors and members of staff to subscribe for ordinary shares between 2007 and 2016 at prices ranging from 176p to 562p.
Options and awards arising under the Executive Share Award Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Sharepurchase Scheme, which are described in Note 44 are not settled by the issuance of new shares but from shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Details concerning the shares held in such trusts are provided in Note 32.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 213 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 32 Reserves Other reserves Barclays PLC Group Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2007 309 617 132 230 438 390 Net gains from changes in fair value 480 182 662 Net gains losses transferred to net profit 560 198 362 Currency translation differences 29 29 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 13 13 Changes in insurance liabilities 22 22 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 68 68 Tax 1 124 102 23 Repurchase of shares 75 75 At 31st December 2007 384 617 154 26 307 874 Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2006 309 617 225 70 156 1,377 Net gains losses from changes in fair value 71 421 350 Net gains transferred to net profit 308 51 359 Currency translation differences 464 464 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 86 86 Changes in insurance liabilities 23 23 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 13 13 Tax 22 172 130 64 At 31st December 2006 309 617 132 230 438 390 The capital redemption reserve and other capital reserve represent transfers from retained earnings in accordance with relevant legislation.
These reserves are not distributable.
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, net of the effects of hedging.
Transfers from cash flow hedging reserve Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve were to: interest income: 93m loss 2006: 7m loss, interest expense: 11m gain 2006: 73m gain, net trading income: 100m loss 2006: 15m loss, and administration and general expenses: 16m loss 2006: nil.
214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 32 Reserves continued Retained earnings and treasury shares Barclays PLC Group Retained Treasury earnings shares Total m m m At 1st January 2007 12,169 212 11,957 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,417 4,417 Equity-settled share schemes 567 567 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 28 28 Net purchases of treasury shares 572 572 Transfer 524 524 Dividends paid 2,079 2,079 Repurchase of shares 1,802 1,802 Transfer from share premium account 7,223 7,223 Arising on share issue 941 941 Other 30 30 At 31st December 2007 20,970 260 20,710 At 1st January 2006 8,957 181 8,776 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,571 4,571 Equity-settled share schemes 663 663 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 96 96 Net purchases of treasury shares 425 425 Transfer 394 394 Dividends paid 1,771 1,771 Other 47 47 At 31st December 2006 12,169 212 11,957 The Treasury shares primarily relate to Barclays PLC shares held by employee benefit trusts in relation to the Executive Share Award Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Sharepurchase Scheme, to the extent that such shares have not been allocated to employees.
These schemes are described in Note 44.
The total number of Barclays shares held in Group employee benefit trusts at 31st December 2007 was 211.4 million 2006: 168 million.
Dividend rights have been waived on nil 2006: nil of these shares.
The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year-end share price of 5.04 2006: 7.30 was 1,065m 2006: 1,227m.
As at 31st December 2007, options over 16.6 million 2006: 9.6 million of the total shares held in the trusts were exercisable.
The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which a local subsidiary has to maintain a minimum level of capital.
The current 3 policy of the Group is that local capital requirements are met, as far as possible, by the retention of profit.
Certain countries operate exchange control regulations which limit the amount of dividends that can be remitted to non-resident shareholders.
It is not possible to determine the amount of profit retained and other reserves that are restricted by these regulations, but the net profit retained of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures at 31st December 2007 totalled 7,311m 2006: 5,667m.
If such overseas reserves were to be remitted, other tax liabilities, which have not been provided for in the accounts, might arise.
Retained earnings Barclays PLC Parent company Capital Retained redemption earnings reserve Total m m m At 1st January 2007 1,468 309 1,777 Profit after tax 3,289 3,289 Dividends paid 2,129 2,129 Transfer from share premium account 7,223 7,223 Arising on share issue 941 941 Repurchase of shares 1,802 75 1,727 At 31st December 2007 8,990 384 9,374 At 1st January 2006 1,318 309 1,627 Profit after tax 1,964 1,964 Dividends paid 1,814 1,814 At 31st December 2006 1,468 309 1,777 Details of principal subsidiaries held through Barclays Bank PLC are shown in Note 40.
The operation of section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 with regard to the issue of shares by Barclays PLC in exchange for shares in Odysseus Jersey No 1 Limited and the subsequent redemption of the no par value redeemable preference shares of that company for cash, has resulted in additional distributable profits of 941m.
On 11th October 2007, the order of the High Court confirming the cancellation of 7,223m of the share premium account was registered with the Registrar of Companies.
This created 7,223m additional distributable reserves in Barclays PLC.
The purpose of the cancellation of the share premium account was to create distributable profits in order to allow the payment of dividends following the completion of the share buy-back programme, the redemption of the preference shares which were to have been issued in connection with the proposed merger with ABN AMRO, and to provide maximum flexibility to manage the companys capital resources.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 215 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 33 Minority interests 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 7,591 7,004 Share of profit after tax 678 624 Dividend and other payments 480 452 Equity issued by subsidiaries 1,381 639 Available for sale reserve: net gain loss from changes in fair value 1 2 Cash flow hedges: net loss from changes in fair value 16 9 Currency translation differences 25 317 Additions 142 51 Disposals 111 34 Other 26 87 At end of year 9,185 7,591 During the year, subsidiaries issued the following Preference Shares: 1.9 million Preference Shares of nominal ZAR0.01 each Principal amount: ZAR1,652m: 118m with a variable dividend issued in 2007 55 million Preference Shares of nominal US$0.25 each Principal amount: US$1,375m: 677m with a 7.1% dividend issued on 13th September 2007 46 million Preference Shares of nominal US$0.25 each Principal amount: US$1,150m: 567m with a 7.75% dividend issued on 7th December 2007 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities and commitments The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-balance sheet risk: 2007 2006 m m Acceptances and endorsements 365 287 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 35,692 31,252 Other contingent liabilities 9,717 7,880 Contingent liabilities 45,774 39,419 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 522 414 Undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities: Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 283 360 Standby facilities, credit lines and other 191,834 204,730 Commitments 192,639 205,504 Nature of instruments In common with other banks, the Group conducts business involving acceptances, performance bonds and indemnities.
The majority of these facilities are offset by corresponding obligations of third parties.
An acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer.
The Group expects most acceptances to be presented, but reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate.
Endorsements are residual liabilities of the Group in respect of bills of exchange, which have been paid and subsequently rediscounted.
216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Guarantees and letters of credit are given as security to support the performance of a customer to third parties.
As the Group will only be required to meet these obligations in the event of the customers default, the cash requirements of these instruments are expected to be considerably below their nominal amounts.
Other contingent liabilities include transaction related customs and performance bonds and are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties which are not directly dependent on the customers creditworthiness.
Commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions.
Such commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject to notice requirements.
Documentary credits commit the Group to make payments to third parties, on production of documents, which are usually reimbursed immediately by customers.
Capital commitments At 31st December 2007 the commitments for capital expenditure under contract amounted to 6m 2006: 9m.
Assets pledged Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security deposits relating to futures and options.
The disclosure includes any asset transfers associated with liabilities under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions.
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities: 2007 2006 m m Trading portfolio assets 76,226 77,255 Loans and advances 32,846 23,715 Available for sale investments 16,378 20,495 Other 580 4 Assets pledged 126,030 121,469 Collateral held as security for assets Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or repledge the collateral held.
The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and repledged to others was as follows: 2007 2006 m m Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 343,986 279,591 Of which fair value of securities repledged transferred to others 269,157 210,182 3 35 Legal proceedings Barclays has for some time been party to proceedings, including a class action, in the United States against a number of defendants following the collapse of Enron: the class action claim is commonly known as the Newby litigation.
On 20th July 2006, Barclays received an Order from the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas Houston Division which dismissed the claims against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital Inc. in the Newby litigation.
On 4th December 2006 the Court stayed Barclays dismissal from the proceedings and allowed the plaintiffs to file a supplemental complaint.
On 19th March 2007 the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit issued its decision on an appeal by Barclays and two other financial institutions contesting a ruling by the District Court allowing the Newby litigation to proceed as a class action.
The Court of Appeals held that because no proper claim against Barclays and the other financial institutions had been alleged by the plaintiffs, the case could not proceed against them.
The plaintiffs applied to the United States Supreme Court for a review of this decision.
On 22nd January 2008, the United States Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs request for review.
Following the Supreme Courts decision, the District Court ordered a further briefing concerning the status of the plaintiffs claims.
Barclays plans to seek the dismissal of the plaintiffs claims.
Barclays considers that the Enron related claims against it are without merit and is defending them vigorously.
It is not possible to estimate Barclays possible loss in relation to these matters, nor the effect that they might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Barclays has been in negotiations with the staff of the US Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to a settlement of the Commissions investigations of transactions between Barclays and Enron.
Barclays does not expect that the amount of any settlement with the Commission would have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or operating results.
Like other UK financial services institutions, Barclays faces numerous County Court claims and complaints by customers who allege that its unauthorised overdraft charges either contravene the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 or are unenforceable penalties or both.
Pending resolution of the test case referred to below the test case, existing and new claims in the County Courts are stayed, and there is an FSA waiver of the complaints handling process and a standstill of Financial Ombudsman Service decisions.
In July 2007, and by agreement with all parties, the OFT launched the test case by commencing proceedings against seven banks and one building society including Barclays, the first stage of which seeks declarations on two issues of legal principle.
The hearing commenced on 17th January 2008.
Barclays is defending the test case vigorously.
It is not practicable to estimate Barclays possible loss in relation to these matters, nor the effect that they may have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Barclays is engaged in various other litigation proceedings both in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by and against it which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings to which Barclays is party to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group and Barclays has not disclosed the contingent liabilities associated with these claims either because they cannot reasonably be estimated or because such disclosure could be prejudicial to the conduct of the claims.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 217 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 36 Competition and regulatory matters The scale of regulatory change remains challenging, arising in part from the implementation of some key European Union EU directives.
Many changes to financial services legislation and regulation have come into force in recent years and further changes will take place in the near future.
Concurrently, there is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of the retail banking and consumer credit industries in the UK and elsewhere.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies and regulatory action are not predictable and beyond the Groups control but could have an impact on the Groups businesses and earnings.
In June 2005 an inquiry into retail banking in all of the then 25 Member States was launched by the European Commissions Directorate General for Competition.
The inquiry looked at retail banking in Europe generally.
In January 2007 the European Commission announced that the inquiry had identified barriers to competition in certain areas of retail banking, payment cards and payment systems in the EU.
The Commission indicated it will use its powers to address these barriers, and will encourage national competition authorities to enforce European and national competition laws where appropriate.
Any action taken by the Commission and national competition authorities could have an impact on the payment cards and payment systems businesses of Barclays and on its retail banking activities in the EU countries in which it operates.
In September 2005 the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT received a super-complaint from the Citizens Advice Bureau relating to payment protection insurance PPI.
As a result, the OFT commenced a market study on PPI in April 2006.
In October 2006, the OFT announced the outcome of the market study and, following a period of consultation, the OFT referred the PPI market to the UK Competition Commission for an in-depth inquiry in February 2007.
This inquiry could last for up to two years.
Also in October 2006, the UK Financial Services Authority FSA published the outcome of its broad industry thematic review of PPI sales practices in which it concluded that some firms fail to treat customers fairly.
Barclays has cooperated fully with these investigations and will continue to do so.
In April 2006, the OFT commenced a review of the undertakings given following the conclusion of the Competition Commission inquiry in 2002 into the supply of banking services to small and medium enterprises.
Based on the OFTs report, the Competition Commission issued its final decision on 21st December 2007 and decided to release the UKs four largest clearing banks including Barclays from most of the transitional undertakings given by them in 2002.
The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard credit card interchange rates.
The decision by the OFT in the MasterCard interchange case was set aside by the Competition Appeals Tribunal in June 2006.
The OFTs investigation in the Visa interchange case is at an earlier stage and a second MasterCard interchange case is ongoing.
The outcome is not known but these investigations may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and therefore on Barclays business in this sector.
In February 2007 the OFT announced that it was expanding its investigation into interchange rates to include debit cards.
In April 2007, the UK consumer interest association known as Which?
submitted a super-complaint to the OFT pursuant to the Enterprise Act 2002.
The super-complaint criticises the various ways in which credit card companies calculate interest charges on credit card accounts.
In June 2007, the OFT announced a new programme of work with the credit card industry and consumer bodies in order to make the costs of credit cards easier for consumers to understand.
This OFT decision follows the receipt by the OFT of the super-complaint from Which?
This new work will explore the issues surrounding the costs of credit for credit cards including purchases, cash advances, introductory offers and payment allocation.
The OFTs programme of work is expected to take six months.
On 11th February 2008, the OFT announced its recommendations, which include the introduction of an FSA price comparison website, improvements to customer information in summary boxes and the use of standard terminology.
In September 2006, the OFT announced that it had decided to undertake a fact find on the application of its statement on credit card fees made in April 2006 to current account unauthorised overdraft fees.
The fact find was completed in March 2007.
On 29th March 2007, the OFT announced its decision to conduct a formal investigation into the fairness of bank current account charges.
The OFT announced a market study into personal current accounts PCAs in the UK on 26th April 2007.
The market study will look at: i whether the provision of free if in credit PCAs delivers sufficiently high levels of transparency and value for customers: ii the implications for competition and consumers if there were to be a shift away from free if in credit PCAs: iii the fairness and impact on consumers generally of the incidence, level and consequences of account charges: and iv what steps could be taken to improve customers ability to secure better value for money, in particular to help customers make more informed current account choices and drive competition.
The study will focus on PCAs but will include an examination of other retail banking products, in particular savings accounts, credit cards, personal loans and mortgages in order to take into account the competitive dynamics of UK retail banking.
The OFT will publish its interim findings after the test case see below.
In July 2007, the OFT commenced a test case in the High Court by agreement with Barclays and seven other financial institutions in which the parties seek declarations on two legal issues arising from the banks terms and conditions relating to overdraft charges.
The test case does not encompass claims from local, medium or larger business customers.
The proceedings will run in parallel with the ongoing OFT dual inquiry into unauthorised overdraft charges and PCAs.
Please also refer to Note 35.
In January 2007, the FSA issued a statement of good practice relating to mortgage exit administration fees.
Barclays agreed to charge the fee applicable at the time the customer took out the mortgage, which was one of the options recommended by the FSA.
US laws and regulations require compliance with US economic sanctions, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, against designated foreign countries, nationals and others.
HM Treasury regulations similarly require compliance with sanctions adopted by the UK government.
Barclays has been conducting an internal review of its conduct with respect to US dollar payments involving countries, persons or entities subject to these sanctions and has been reporting to governmental agencies about the results of that review.
Barclays received inquiries relating to these sanctions and certain US dollar payments processed by its New York branch from the New York County District Attorneys Office and the US Department of Justice, which, along with other authorities, has been reported to be conducting investigations of sanctions compliance by non-US financial institutions.
Barclays has responded to those inquiries and is cooperating with regulators, the Department of Justice and the District Attorneys Office in connection with their investigations of Barclays conduct with respect to sanctions compliance.
Barclays has also been keeping the FSA informed of the progress of these investigations and Barclays internal review.
It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of the issues covered by Barclays review and the investigations, including the timing and potential financial effect of any resolution, which could be substantial.
Barclays does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group, but it is not possible to estimate the effect they might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 37 Leasing The Group is both lessor and lessee under finance and operating leases, providing asset financing for its customers and leasing assets for its own use.
In addition, assets leased by the Group may be sublet to other parties.
An analysis of the impact of these transactions on the Group balance sheet and income statement is as follows: a As Lessor Finance lease receivables The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a broad range of international technology, industrial equipment and commercial companies to provide customised finance programmes to assist manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers.
The Groups net investment in finance lease receivables was as follows: 2007 2006 Gross Present value of Gross Present value of investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed finance lease finance payments residual finance lease finance payments residual receivables income receivable values receivables income receivable values m m m m m m m m Not more than one year 3,657 780 2,877 213 3,650 734 2,916 166 Over one year but not more than five years 7,385 1,613 5,772 374 5,824 1,490 4,334 334 Over five years 3,476 935 2,541 14 3,790 898 2,892 15 Total 14,518 3,328 11,190 601 13,264 3,122 10,142 515 The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment amounted to 113m at 31st December 2007 2006: 99m.
Operating lease receivables The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as operating leases.
The items purchased to satisfy these leases are treated as plant and equipment in the Groups financial statements and are generally disposed of at the end of the lease term see Note 23.
The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases at 31st December 2007 were as follows: 2007 2006 Plant and Plant and equipment equipment m m 3 Not more than one year 29 18 Over one year but not more than two years 24 5 Over two years but not more than three years 22 3 Over three years but not more than four years 20 3 Over four years but not more than five years 11 3 Over five years 10 7 Total 116 39 b As Lessee Finance lease commitments The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases.
Finance lease commitments are included within other liabilities see Note 25.
Obligations under finance leases were as follows: 2007 2006 Total future Total future minimum minimum payments payments m m Not more than one year 12 6 Over one year but not more than two years 14 21 Over two years but not more than three years 13 11 Over three years but not more than four years 12 14 Over four years but not more than five years 15 9 Over five years 17 31 Net obligations under finance leases 83 92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 219 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 37 Leasing continued b As Lessee continued The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases at the balance sheet date was: 2007 2006 m m Cost 94 44 Accumulated depreciation 24 25 Net book value 70 19 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights.
There are no contingent rents payable.
The Group also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements.
Where the Group is the lessee the future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2007 2006 Property Equipment Property Equipment m m m m Not more than one year 191 6 335 9 Over one year but not more than two years 396 1 337 9 Over two years but not more than three years 357 1 311 2 Over three years but not more than four years 323 268 Over four years but not more than five years 287 223 Over five years 2,225 2,057 Total 3,779 8 3,531 20 The total of future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date is 167m 2006: 251m.
38 Acquisitions The Group made the following material acquisitions in 2007: a Indexchange Investment AG On 8th February 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Indexchange Investment AG, based in Munich offering exchange traded fund products.
b Equifirst Corporation On 30th March 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Equifirst Corporation, a sub-prime mortgage origination business.
c Walbrook Group Limited On 18th May 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Walbrook Group Limited.
The business serves high net worth private clients and corporate customers.
220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 38 Acquisitions continued Details of the net assets of material companies acquired and consideration paid were as follows: Carrying value preFair value acquisition adjustments 2007 m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 51 51 Assets designated at fair value 133 133 Goodwill 41 41 Property, plant and equipment 7 7 Other assets 19 19 Intangible assets 53 53 Deferred tax assets 10 10 Total assets 261 12 273 Liabilities Deposits from banks 162 162 Deferred tax liabilities 4 4 Other liabilities 98 38 60 Total liabilities 260 34 226 Net assets acquired 47 Goodwill 267 Total 314 The excess of proceeds over the net assets acquired has generated goodwill of 267m, based on the exchange rate at the date of acquisition and is attributable to the operational synergies and earnings potential expected to be realised over the longer term.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses generated a loss of 15m to consolidated profit before tax for the period from acquisition date to 31st December 2007.
If all of the above acquisitions had occurred on 1st January 2007 the impact on total Group income and net profit for the year would have been immaterial.
2007 m Acquisition cost 3 Cash paid 297 Deferred consideration 11 Attributable costs 6 Total consideration 314 Cash outflows in respect of acquisitions The aggregate net outflow of cash from the acquisition of the above Group entities was as follows: 2007 m Cash paid 297 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 51 Net cash outflow on acquisition 246 Cash paid in respect of acquisition of shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited 488 Cash paid in respect of acquisition of shares in Absa Bank Limited 180 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 668 39 Investment in subsidiaries The investment in Barclays Bank PLC is stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 10,186m 2006: 8,641m.
The increase of 1,545m 2006: 179m during the year represents the cost of additional shares of 111m 2006: 179m and a capital contribution of 1,434m 2006: nil.
The investment in Barclays Investments Netherlands N. V. is stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 205m 2006: nil.
The increase of 205m 2006: nil during the year represents the cost of the initial share issue.
The investment in Odysseus Jersey No.
1 Limited is stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 0.1m 2006: nil.
The increase of 0.1m 2006: nil during the year represents the cost of the initial share issue.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 221 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 40 Principal subsidiaries Percentage of equity Country of registration capital held or incorporation Company name Nature of business % Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 74.9 Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100 England Barclays Bank PLC Banking, holding company 100 England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Loans and advances including leases to customers 100 England Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited Holding company 94.1 England Barclays Global Investors Limited Investment management 94.1 England Barclays Life Assurance Company Limited Life assurance 100 England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100 England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100 England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100 England Barclays Global Investors Pensions Management Limited Investment management 94.1 England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Secured loan provider 100 England Gerrard Investment Management Limited Investment management 100 Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100 Ireland Barclays Insurance Dublin Limited Insurance provider 100 Ireland Barclays Assurance Dublin Limited Insurance provider 100 a Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients International Limited Banking 100 Japan Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100 Jersey Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited Banking, trust company 100 Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking 68.5 South Africa Absa Group Limited Banking 58.8 Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.7 Switzerland Barclays Bank Suisse S. A.
Banking and trust services 100 USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100 USA Barclays Financial Corporation Holding company for US credit card issuer 100 USA Barclays Global Investors, National Association Investment management and securities industry 94.1 Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 67.8 In accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
Investments in these subsidiaries are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be filed at Companies House.
Note a BBPLC is the beneficial owner of 38.1% of shares and Barclays Holdings Isle of Man Limited is the beneficial owner of 61.9% of shares.
222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 41 Other entities There are a number of entities that do not qualify as subsidiaries under UK Law but which are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity usually a Special Purpose Entity SPE indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when relationships with such entities gives rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when: the operating and financial polices of the entity are closely defined from the outset i. e. it operates on an autopilot basis with such policies being largely determined by the Group: the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the entity and or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity: or the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specific business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the parent of 31st December.
Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting regulations or tax laws.
In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC, entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December.
Entities may have restrictions placed on their ability to transfer funds, including payment of dividends and repayment of loans, to their parent entity.
Reasons for the restrictions include: Central bank restrictions relating to local exchange control laws.
Central bank capital adequacy requirements.
Company law restrictions relating to treatment of the entities as going concerns.
Although the Groups interest in the equity voting rights in certain entities exceeds 50%, or it may have the power to appoint a majority of their Boards of Directors, they are excluded from consolidation because the Group either does not direct the financial and operating policies of these entities, or on the grounds that another entity has a superior economic interest in them.
Consequently, these entities are not deemed to be controlled by Barclays.
The table below includes information in relation to such entities as required by the Companies Act 1985, Section 231 5.
Equity Percentage of shareRetained ordinary share holders profit for Country of registration capital held funds the year or incorporation Name %mm UK Oak Dedicated Limited 100 3 4 UK Oak Dedicated Two Limited 100 3 2 3 UK Oak Dedicated Three Limited 100 1 1 UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 Cayman Islands St James Fleet Investments Two Limited 100 2 Cayman Islands BNY BT NewCo Limited Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 223 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration a Related party transactions Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operation decisions, or one other party controls both.
The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the Groups pension schemes, as well as other persons.
Subsidiaries Transactions between Barclays PLC and subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group financial statements.
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC are fully disclosed directly in its balance sheet and income statement.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 40.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures and the Group pension funds principally the UK Retirement Fund, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other services.
Group companies, principally within Barclays Global Investors, also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes.
The Group also provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies and are not individually material.
All of these transactions are conducted on the same terms as third-party transactions.
Amounts included in the accounts, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows: For the year ended and as at 31st December 2007 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 575 1 81 Interest paid 1 58 1 60 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 1 34 26 61 Fees paid for services provided 52 78 130 Principal transactions 24 47 16 7 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 142 886 40 1,068 Derivative transactions 4 36 40 Other assets 19 18 14 51 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 11 11 Customer accounts 613312 106 Derivative transactions 1050 60 Other liabilities 4 125 129 224 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued For the year ended and as at 31st December 2006 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 45 38 2 85 Interest paid 31 57 88 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 14 7 28 49 Fees paid for services provided 115 51 1 167 Principal transactions 3 2 1 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 784 146 65 995 Derivative transactions Other assets 19 3 17 39 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 9 3 12 Customer accounts 19 18 5 34 76 Derivative transactions 2 2 Other liabilities 13 8 21 For the year ended and as at 31st December 2005 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 23 14 37 3 Interest paid 37 45 82 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 5 7 17 29 Fees paid for services provided 120 34 154 Principal transactions 33 1 34 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 632 19 651 Derivative transactions 36 36 Other assets 26 1 19 46 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 827 827 Customer accounts 13 22 501 536 Derivative transactions 1 1 Other liabilities 22 6 28 No guarantees, pledges or commitments have been given or received in respect of these transactions in 2007, 2006 or 2005.
There are no leasing transactions between related parties for 2007, 2006 or 2005.
Derivatives transacted on behalf of the Pensions Funds Unit Trusts and Investment Funds amounted to 22m 2006: 1,209m, 2005: 280m.
In 2007 Barclays paid 18m 2006: 19m of its charitable donations through the Charities Aid Foundation, a registered charitable organisation, in which a Director of the Company is a Trustee.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 225 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Key Management Personnel The Groups Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Barclays PLC directly or indirectly and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units.
In the ordinary course of business, the Bank makes loans to companies where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
These loans are made on substantially the same criteria and terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.
There were no material related party transactions with companies where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them.
Transactions during the year and the balances outstanding at 31st December 2007 were as follows: Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2007 2006 2005 m m m Loans outstanding at 1st January 7.8 7.4 7.8 Loans issued during the year 2.7 2.7 3.4 Loan repayments during the year 3.2 2.3 3.2 Loans outstanding at 31st December 7.3 7.8 8.0 Interest income earned 0.4 0.3 0.4 No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel or any connected person in 2007, 2006 or 2005.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Deposits outstanding at 1st January 15.0 4.7 2.5 Deposits received during the year 114.4 105.2 20.4 Deposits repaid during the year 115.0 94.8 18.2 Deposits outstanding at 31st December 14.4 15.1 4.7 Interest expense on deposits 0.6 0.2 0.1 Of the loans outstanding above, nil 2006: nil, 2005: 0.7m relates to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
Of the deposits outstanding above, 2.8m 2006: 0.1m, 2005: nil related to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
All loans are provided on normal commercial terms to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them, with the exception of 1,540 of loans which are provided to non-Director members of Key Management Personnel on staff preferential interest rates 5% and 665 of loans which are provided on an interest free basis.
The loans of 1,540 provided at staff preferential rates of interest reflects the amortized principal amount of a home mortgage loan that was provided by Barclays to a non-Director member of key management personnel.
The home mortgage loan was granted at a time when Barclays had in place a corporate policy of providing home mortgage loans at preferential rates of interest to all staff members.
This policy has since been discontinued by Barclays.
These home mortgage loans were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, to all staff members, who applied for such loans.
The loans of 665 provided on an interest free basis relate to the granting of loans to one non-Director member of Barclays key management to purchase commuter rail tickets.
The commuter rail ticket loans are still provided to all Barclays staff members upon request on the same terms.
226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2007 2006 2005 m m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 23.7 34.2 32.9 Pension costs 1.1 0.8 1.1 Other long-term benefits 9.2 9.3 21.5 Termination benefits 1.4 1.5 Share-based payments 31.7 27.2 25.3 Employer social security charges on emoluments 7.8 10.0 10.4 73.5 82.9 92.7 b Disclosure required by the Companies Act 1985 The following information is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: Directors remuneration 2007 2006 m m Aggregate emoluments 29.2 32.0 Gains made on the exercise of share options 0.3 5.5 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes Actual pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2007: one Director, 10,233 and 2006: one Director, 11,414 Notional pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2007: no Directors and 2006: no Directors 29.5 37.5 As at 31st December 2007, three Directors were accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2006: four Directors.
Two Directors Naguib Kheraj and Frits Seegers agreed to waive their fees as non-executive Directors of Absa Group Limited and Absa Bank Limited.
The respective fees for 2007 were ZAR 0.1m 0.01m and ZAR 0.5m 0.03m.
The fees for 2006 were ZAR 0.4m 0.03m for Naguib Kheraj and ZAR 0.1m 0.01m for Frits Seegers.
In both 2006 and 2007 the fees were paid to Barclays.
Directors and Officers shareholdings and options The beneficial ownership of the ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC involving 21 persons and Barclays 3 Bank PLC involving 22 persons at 31st December 2007 amounted to 5,774,219 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.09% of the ordinary share capital outstanding and 5,776,370 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.09% of the ordinary share capital outstanding, respectively.
Executive Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC as a group involving 10 persons held, at 31st December 2007, options to purchase 3,097,762 Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 373p to 510p under Sharesave and at 397p under the Executive Share Option Scheme and ranging from 326p to 534p under the Incentive Share Option Plan, respectively.
Contracts with Directors and their connected persons and Managers The aggregate amounts outstanding at 31st December 2007 under transactions, arrangements and agreements made by banking companies within the Group for persons who are, or were during the year, Directors of Barclays PLC and persons connected with them, as defined in the Companies Act 2006, and for Managers, within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, of Barclays Bank PLC were: Number of Number of Directors or connected Amount Managers persons m Directors Loans 2 5 2.1 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 12 18 Managers Loans 12 n a 13.2 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 11 n a c US disclosures For US disclosure purposes, the aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC who held office during the year 2007: 22 persons, 2006: 24 persons, 2005: 25 persons for the year ended 31st December 2007 amounted to 64.6m 2006: 72.1m, 2005: 75.2m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside for the year ended 31st December 2007, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 1.1m 2006: 0.8m, 2005: 0.2m.
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays Bank PLC who held office during the year 2007: 23 persons, 2006: 25 persons, 2005: 26 persons for the year ended 31st December 2007 amounted to 64.9m 2006: 72.2m, 2005: 75.4m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st December 2007, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 1.1m 2006: 0.8m, 2005: 0.2m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 227 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 43 Events after the balance sheet date On 3rd March 2008, Barclays entered into an agreement with Petropavlovsk Finance Limited Liability Society to acquire 100% of the Russian Bank, Expobank, for a consideration of approximately $745m 373m.
The transaction is expected to close in summer 2008 after receipt of appropriate regulatory approvals.
Expobank focuses principally on Western Russia, with a substantial presence in Moscow and St Petersburg.
Founded in 1994, it has grown rapidly and comprises a blend of retail and commercial banking, operating 32 branches and dealing with a range of corporate and wholesale clients.
As at 31st December 2007, Expobank had net assets of $186m 93m.
44 Share-based payments The Group operates share schemes for employees throughout the world.
The main current schemes are: Sharesave Eligible employees in the UK, Spain and Ireland may participate in the Barclays Sharesave scheme.
Under this scheme, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month Ireland: 320, Spain: 90 and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years Spain: three years, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The discount is currently 20% of the market price at the date the options are granted.
Participants in the scheme have six months from the date of vest in which the option can be exercised.
Sharepurchase Sharepurchase was introduced in January 2002.
It is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plan.
The plan is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors.
Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to 1,500 worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per tax year, which, if kept in trust for five years, can be withdrawn from the plan tax-free.
Matching shares were introduced to the scheme during 2005 where the purchase of Barclays shares by the participant are matched equally by the Company up to a value of 600 per tax year.
Any shares in the plan will earn dividends in the form of additional shares, which must normally be held by the trustee for three years before being eligible for release.
Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS For certain employees of the Group an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Barclays PLC shares under ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit, Group and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must normally be held for at least three years.
Additional bonus shares are subsequently awarded to recipients of the provisional allocation and vest upon achieving continued service for three and five years from the date of award.
ESAS awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes.
All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns and commences work with a competitor business.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Performance Share Plan PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to replace the ISOP scheme.
Performance shares are free Barclays shares for which no exercise price is payable and which qualify for dividends.
Performance share awards are communicated to participants as an initial allocation.
Barclays performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Options granted under the following schemes are over subsidiaries of Barclays PLC: Barclays Global Investors Equity Ownership Plan BGI EOP The Equity Ownership Plan extends to key employees of BGI.
The exercise price of the options is determined by the Remuneration Committee of Barclays PLC based on the fair value of BGI as determined by an independent appraiser.
The options are granted over shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Options are not exercisable until vesting, with a third of the options held generally becoming exercisable at each anniversary of grant.
The shareholder has the right to offer to sell the shares to Barclays Bank PLC 355 days following the exercise of the option.
Barclays Bank PLC may accept the offer and purchase the shares at the most recently agreed valuation but is under no obligation to do so.
Options lapse ten years after grant.
The most recently agreed valuation was 106.03 at 30th June 2007.
Absa Group Limited Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transaction On 25th June 2004, Absa shareholders approved the allocation of 73,152,300, redeemable cumulative option-holding Absa preference shares to Batho Bonke Capital Limited.
Each redeemable preference share carries the option to acquire one Absa ordinary share.
The shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares including voting rights, and receive dividends which are payable semi-annually.
Options vest after three years and lapse after five years from the date of issue.
Exercise may only occur in lots of 100 and within a price range varying from ZAR48 to ZAR69 3.40-4.89 dependent on the 30-day volume weighted trading price on the JSE Limited.
Options are redeemed by Absa on the final exercise date.
228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 44 Share-based payments continued Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust AGLSIT In terms of the rules of Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust the maximum number of shares which may be issued or transferred and or in respect of which options may be granted to the participants shall be limited to shares representing 10% of the total number of issued shares.
Options are allocated to Absa employees according to the normal Human Resources talent management process.
The options issued up to August 2005 had no performance criteria linked to them and vested in equal tranches after three, four and five years respectively.
No dividends accrue to the option holder over the period.
The options expire after a period of ten years from the issuing date.
Options issued since August 2005 have vesting performance criteria associated with them, which require headline earnings per share to exceed an agreed benchmark over a three-year period from July 2005 for the options to vest Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Trust AGLSOT The Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Trust AGLSOT enabled all Absa employees to participate in a one-off offer to purchase 200 redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares.
Absa Group Limited Executive Share Award Scheme AGLESAS For certain employees of Absa an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Absa Group Limited shares under Absa ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must be held for at least three years.
All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns.
In addition, options remain outstanding under the following closed schemes: Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP The ISOP was open by invitation to the employees and Directors of Barclays PLC.
Options were granted at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
The final number of shares over which the option may be exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria.
The number of shares under option represents the maximum possible number that may be exercised.
No awards were made under ISOP during 2006 or 2007.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS is a long-term incentive scheme and was available by invitation to certain senior executives of the Group with grants usually made annually.
Options were issued with an exercise price equivalent to the market price at the date of the grant without any discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
No further awards are made under ESOS.
Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP Options originally granted over Woolwich PLC shares at market value were exercised in 2001 or exchanged, in accordance with the proposals made under the offer to acquire the Woolwich, for options over Barclays PLC shares.
Under the rules of ESOP, the performance conditions attached to the exercise of options were disapplied on acquisition of Woolwich PLC by Barclays.
At the balance sheet date, no options remained outstanding or exercisable in respect of the following closed scheme: 3 Woolwich Save as You Earn Woolwich SAYE Under this scheme, employees entered into contracts to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five, or seven years, have the option to use these savings to acquire the shares in the Company at a discount calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The discount was 20% of the market price at the date the options were granted.
At the balance sheet date the following cash settled schemes operated within the group: Barclays Africa Share Plan The Barclays Africa Share Plan grants a number of notional shares and settles in a cash award linked to the Barclays PLC share price.
The exercise price of options is equal to the increment of the market price of Barclays shares over the original price on the date of grant.
The final number of notional shares over which the option may be exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria.
Awards vest three years from grant and expire four years from that date.
Absa Group Phantom Performance Share Plan Absa Phantom PSP The Absa Phantom PSP was implemented during 2006 to replace the Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust AGLSIT scheme.
Shares are awarded at no cost to participants and the cash paid is equal to the market value of ordinary shares of Absa Group Limited.
The performance of Absa over a threeyear period determines the final number of notional shares that any cash payment would be based on.
Awards vest after three years to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 229 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 44 Share-based payments continued The weighted average fair value per option granted during the year is as follows: 2007 2006 Sharesave 1.25 1.88 Sharepurchase 6.84 6.55 ESAS 6.96 6.73 PSP 8.03 7.53 BGI EOP 22.18 21.18 AGLSIT 3.18 2.70 AGLESAS n a 8.42 Fair values for Sharesave, PSP, BGI EOP and AGLSIT are calculated at the date of grant using either a Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation.
Sharepurchase, ESAS and AGLESAS are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.
As described above, the terms of the ESAS scheme require shares to be held for a set number of years from the date of vest.
The calculation of the vest date fair value of such awards includes a reduction for this post-vesting restriction.
This discount is determined by calculating how much a willing market participant would rationally pay to remove the restriction using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2007 are as follows: 2007 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT Weighted average share price 5.82 7.07 95.33 9.18 Weighted average exercise price 4.81 95.33 7.62 Expected volatility 25% 25% 20% 30% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2006 are as follows: 2006 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT Weighted average share price 6.20 6.74 81.12 8.92 Weighted average exercise price 5.11 81.12 6.57 Expected volatility 25% 25% 24% 29% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2005 are as follows: 2005 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT ISOP Weighted average share price 5.71 5.33 39.09 8.25 5.73 Weighted average exercise price 4.44 n a 39.09 8.41 5.66 Expected volatility 24% 20% 25% n a 34% Option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5-8 years 5 years Expected volatility and dividend yield on the date of grant have been used as inputs into the respective valuation models for Sharesave and PSP.
Expected volatility has been determined using historical volatility of its peers over the expected life of the options for BGI EOP and AGLSIT applies a five-year rolling period.
The yield on UK government bonds with a commensurate life has been used to determine the risk-free discount rate of 5% for all schemes other than AGLSIT.
Option life is estimated based upon historical data for the holding period of options between grant and exercise dates.
The risk-free rate on the AGLSIT scheme represents the yield, recorded on date of option grant, on South African government zero coupon bond of a term commensurate to the expected life of the option.
230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 44 Share-based payments continued For the purposes of determining the expected life and number of options to vest, historical exercise patterns have been used, together with an assumption that a certain percentage of options will lapse due to leavers.
The assumed dividend yield for Barclays PLC is the average annual dividend yield on the date of grant of 4%.
Dividend yield for AGLSIT of 3.5% was based on the average 12-month trailing yield over the year to grant date.
Analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below: a a, d Sharesave Sharepurchase Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
b Options award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares.
c Options award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 231 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 44 Share-based payments continued c, d AGLESAS Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2007 2006 2007 2006 Outstanding at beginning of year acquisition date 37 Granted in the year 37 Exercised released in the year Less: forfeited in the year Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 37 37 Of which exercisable: a a ISOP ESOS Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Outstanding at beginning of year 700 1,260 3.81 3.80 3 3.32 Granted in the year Exercised released in the year 160 560 3.84 3.79 1 3.32 Less: forfeited in the year 2 3.32 Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 540 700 3.81 3.81 Of which exercisable: 540 700 3.81 3.81 The table below shows the weighted average share price at the date of exercise release of shares: 2007 2006 a Sharesave 5.72 6.95 a, d Sharepurchase 6.74 6.59 a, d ESAS 6.71 6.78 b BGI EOP 97.06 81.08 c AGLSIT 9.52 8.81 a ISOP 7.31 6.75 a ESOS 7.26 6.64 a Woolwich ESOP 7.24 6.65 a Woolwich SAYE n a 6.09 The exercise price range, the weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options outstanding including those exercisable at the balance sheet date are as follows: Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
As at 31st December 2007, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions was 16m 2006: 7m.
At 31st December 2007, 7.5 million 2006: 6.9 million options were outstanding under the terms of the BGI EOP which would represent a 8.1% interest if exercised.
Employees in BGI own 5.9% of the shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited 2006: 9.4%.
If all the current options were exercised, 567.6m 2006: 400.5m would be subscribed.
Since the scheme was introduced, options over 20.9 million 2006: 19.3 million shares have been exercised, of which 5.0 million are still held by employees and represent a minority interest in the Group.
At 31st December 2007, there were 73.2 million, 13.6 million and 0.9 million options granted over Absa Group Limited shares under the Absa Group Limited Black Economic Empowerment Transaction, Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust and Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Trust respectively.
In aggregate, these options would represent a 13.1% interest in Absa Group Limited if exercised.
Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 233 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 45 Financial risks Financial risk management Barclays PLC is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
Financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups business and managing financial risks, especially credit risk, is a fundamental part of its business activity.
Barclays achieves its risk management goals by keeping risk management at the centre of the executive agenda and by building a culture where risk management is part of everyday business decision-making.
Barclays ensures that it has the capacity to manage the risk in its established businesses as well as new and growing ones, and that its business plans are consistent with risk appetite, that is, the level of risk Barclays is willing to accept in fulfilling its business objectives.
Barclays risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits, and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date data.
Risk management policies, models and systems are regularly reviewed to reflect changes to markets, products and best market practice.
Individual responsibility and accountability, instilled through training, are designed to deliver a disciplined, conservative and constructive culture of risk management and control.
Risk responsibilities The Board approves risk appetite and the Board Risk Committee monitors the Groups risk profile against this appetite: The Group Risk Director, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control: Business Heads are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses: Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification and management of their business risk profiles for implementing appropriate controls.
These risk management teams also assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses: Within Group risk, Risk-Type Heads and their teams are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight: and Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
Oversight of risk management is exercised by the Risk Oversight Committee which is chaired by the Group Risk Director under authority delegated by the Group Finance Director.
The Risk Oversight Committee oversees management of the Groups risk profile, exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Group risk appetite.
The Group Executive Committee monitors and manages risk-adjusted performance of businesses and receives a regularly quarterly risk update including a copy of the Group Risk Profile Report.
The Board Risk Committee BRC reviews the Group risk profile, approves the Group Control Framework and approves minimum control requirements for principal risks.
The Board Audit Committee BAC considers the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework and receives quarterly reports on control issues of significance and half-yearly reports on impairment allowances and regulatory reports.
Both BRC and BAC also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of both Committees are reported to the full Board.
The Board approves the overall Group risk appetite.
The Risk Oversight Committee is chaired by the Group Risk Director and oversees the management of the Groups risk profile and all of its significant risks.
Oversight is exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Groups risk appetite.
It has delegated and apportioned responsibility for credit risk management to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committees.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed in Notes 46 to 48.
46 Market risk Market risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
Most market risk arises from trading activities.
Barclays is also exposed to interest rate and potential foreign exchange risks arising from financial assets and liabilities not held for trading.
Market risk management and control responsibilities The Board approves the overall market risk appetite.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the market risk control framework and, under delegated authority from the Group Risk Director, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
The head of each business, assisted by the business risk management team, is accountable for identifying, measuring and managing all market risks associated with the business activities.
Oversight and support is provided by the Market Risk Director, assisted by the central market risk team.
Market risk measurement The measurement techniques used to measure and control market risk include: Daily Value at Risk: Stress Tests: and Annual Earnings at Risk.
Daily Value at Risk DVaR DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence level of 98%.
Daily losses exceeding the DVaR figure are likely to occur, on average, twice in every 100 business days.
In Barclays Capital, DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool.
DVaR is calculated using the historical simulation method with a historical sample of two years.
234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 46 Market risk continued DVaR Back-testing The DVaR model is regularly assessed.
The main approach employed is the technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days when trading losses exceed the corresponding DVaR estimate.
On the basis of DVaR estimated to a 98% confidence level, on average there would be five days each year when trading losses would be expected to exceed DVaR and would therefore be reflected as back-testing exceptions.
For Barclays Capitals trading book, there were seven instances of a daily trading loss exceeding the corresponding 98% back-testing DVaR.
These back-testing exceptions in 2007 reflected the increased volatility across a number of markets in which Barclays Capital operates.
There were no instances of back-testing exceptions on a similar basis in 2006.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest income NII over the next 12 months.
It is calculated as the difference between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest estimated income following a 50 basis points increase or decrease in interest rates.
AEaR is used primarily to measure interest rate risk arising on non-trading assets and liabilities.
Traded market risk Traded market risk management Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, client and market activities are managed together.
In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for implementing the market risk control framework.
Day to day responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital, supported by the Market Risk Management team that operates independently of the trading areas.
Daily market risk reports are produced for the main Barclays Capital business areas covering the different risk categories including: interest rate, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed trading market risk presentation is produced fortnightly and discussed at Barclays Capitals Traded Products Risk Review meeting.
This meeting is attended by the senior managers from Barclays Capital and the central market risk team.
Analysis of trading market risk exposures The table below shows the DVaR statistics for Barclays Capitals trading and non-trading activities.
DVaR is the main measure for internal risk management within Barclays Capital.
Barclays Capital's market risk exposure, as measured by average total Daily Value at Risk DVaR, increased by 13% to 42.0m 2006: 37.1m.
Interest rate and credit spread risks were broadly unchanged while commodity DVaR and equity DVaR increased by 8.9m and 3.4m respectively.
The growth in both these risks is consistent with Barclays Capitals business plan.
Diversification across risk types remained significant, reflecting the broad product mix.
Total DVaR as at 31st December 2007 was 53.9m 31st December 2006 41.9m.
This growth reflected the increased market volatility in the second half of the year.
Barclays Capital DVaR: Summary table for 2007 and 2006 12 months to 31st December 2007 Average High Low 3 m m m Interest rate risk 20.0 33.3 12.6 Credit spread risk 24.9 43.3 14.6 Commodities risk 20.2 27.2 14.8 Equities risk 11.2 17.6 7.3 Foreign exchange risk 4.9 9.6 2.9 a Diversification effect 39.2 n a n a Total DVaR 42.0 59.3 33.1 12 months to 31st December 2006 Average High Low m m m Interest rate risk 20.1 28.8 12.3 Credit spread risk 24.3 33.1 17.9 Commodities risk 11.3 21.6 5.7 Equities risk 7.8 11.6 5.8 Foreign exchange risk 4.0 7.7 1.8 a Diversification effect 30.4 n a n a Total DVaR 37.1 43.2 31.3 Note a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently, a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 235 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 46 Market risk continued Non-trading interest rate risk Asset and liability market risk Interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-trading banking products and services, as well as foreign currency translational exposures within the Groups balance sheet.
The Groups approach is to transfer risk from the businesses either into local treasuries or to Group Treasury using an internal transfer price or interest rate swap.
The methodology used to transfer this risk depends on whether the product contains yield curve risk, basis risk or customer optionality.
Limits exist to ensure there is no material risk retained within any business or product area.
Sensitivity analysis Set out below are the impacts on net interest income and equity of a reasonably possible change in market rates of interest, based on the AEaR model described above.
a Impact on net interest income The sensitivity of the income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the net interest income for one year, based on the nontrading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st December 2007, including the effect of hedging instruments.
The effect on net interest income, and therefore profit before tax, of a 50 basis points change would be as follows: 50 basis 50 basis 50 basis 50 basis points points points points 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m GBP 19 19 11 11 USD 1 1 4 4 EUR 11 11 9 9 ZAR 9 9 12 12 Others 2 2 1 1 Total 18 18 11 11 As percentage of net interest income 0.19% 0.19% 0.12% 0.12% Note: This table excludes exposures held or issued by Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed using DVaR.
b Impact on equity Interest rate changes affect equity in the following three ways: Higher or lower profit after tax resulting from higher or lower net interest income Higher or lower available for sale reserves reflecting higher or lower fair values of available for sale financial instruments Higher or lower values of derivatives held in the cash flow hedging reserves The sensitivities of equity shown below are based on scenarios constructed from actual exposures and consider the impact on the cash flow hedging reserve and the available for sale reserve only.
They are calculated by revaluing fixed rate available-for-sale financial assets, including the effect of any associated hedges, and derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, for the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates.
They are based on the assumption that there are parallel shifts in the yield curve.
The effects of taxation have been estimated using the Groups effective tax rate of 28% 2006: 27%.
50 basis 50 basis 50 basis 50 basis points points points points 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m Net interest income 18 18 11 11 Taxation effects on the above 5 5 3 3 Effect on profit for the year 13 13 8 8 As percentage of net profit after tax 0.26% 0.26% 0.15% 0.15% Effect on profit for year per above 13 13 8 8 Available for sale reserve 150 150 185 185 Cashflow hedging reserve 225 225 304 304 Taxation effects on the above 105 105 132 132 Effect on equity 257 257 349 349 As a percentage of equity 0.79% 0.79% 1.28% 1.28% 236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 46 Market risk continued Concentrations of interest rate risk The table below summarises the repricing profiles of the Groups financial instruments and other assets and liabilities at their carrying value on 31st December 2007.
Items are allocated to time periods by reference to the earlier of the next contractual interest rate repricing date and the maturity date.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 237 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 46 Market risk continued As at 31st December 2006 Over Over Over three six Over three Over Not months months one year years five years more but not but not but not but not but not Trading than more more more more more Over portfolio Nonthree than six than one than three than five than ten ten and interest months months year years years years years derivatives bearing Total m m m m m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 7,012 333 7,345 Items in course of collection from other banks 654 1,754 2,408 Trading portfolio assets 177,867 177,867 Financial assets designated at fair value: Held on own account 17,831 834 387 1,121 2,544 1,131 6,231 1,720 31,799 Derivative financial instruments 138,353 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 25,012 483 233 211 69 36 1 4,881 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 195,500 15,048 14,225 24,850 9,485 6,399 7,699 9,094 282,300 Available for sale financial instruments 25,899 2,427 7,780 3,737 3,234 6,701 1,091 834 51,703 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 157,592 4,721 8,338 3,431 8 174,090 Total financial assets 429,500 23,513 30,963 29,919 18,763 14,267 15,022 316,220 18,624 896,791 Other assets 99,99699,996 Total assets 429,500 23,513 30,963 29,919 18,763 14,267 15,022 316,220 118,620 996,787 Liabilities Deposits from other banks 72,353 1,377 763 351 7 199 4,512 79,562 Items in course of collection due to other banks 20 2,201 2,221 Customer accounts 207,023 3,965 3,963 2,371 506 43 216 38,667 256,754 Trading portfolio liabilities 71,874 71,874 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: Held on own account 20,186 5,635 3,800 1,538 1,607 1,843 774 18,604 53,987 Derivative financial instruments 140,697 140,697 Debt securities in issue 92,649 5,624 2,430 4,020 1,630 3,249 1,535 111,137 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 122,612 6,132 2,348 1,662 2,818 1,384 136,956 Subordinated liabilities 3,192 377 21 1,074 783 3,475 4,842 22 13,786 Total financial liabilities 518,035 23,110 13,325 11,016 4,526 8,617 10,384 212,571 65,390 866,974 Other liabilities 102,423 102,423 Total liabilities 518,035 23,110 13,325 11,016 4,526 8,617 10,384 212,571 167,813 969,397 Interest rate repricing gap 88,535 403 17,638 18,903 14,237 5,650 4,638 Cumulative gap 88,535 88,132 70,494 51,591 37,354 31,704 27,066 Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts, and the related liabilities, have been omitted from the above analysis as the Group is not exposed to the interest rate risk inherent in these assets or liabilities.
238 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 46 Market risk continued Effective interest rates Weighted average effective interest rates were as follows: 2007 2006 % % As at 31st December Assets Cash and balances at central banks 4.2 4.1 Loans and advances to banks 4.5 4.1 Loans and advances to customers 7.1 6.5 Available for sale financial instruments 5.0 4.6 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 4.2 4.2 Liabilities Deposits from other banks 4.2 4.3 Customer accounts 3.8 3.4 Debt securities in issue 5.3 5.0 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 3.9 4.2 Subordinated liabilities 5.9 5.9 Foreign exchange risk The group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.
a Transactional foreign currency exposure Transactional foreign exchange exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting entity.
The Groups risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio managed by Barclays Capital which is monitored through DVaR.
There were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures outside the trading portfolio at either 31st December 2007 or 2006.
Due to the low level of non-trading exposures no reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates would have a material effect on either the Groups profit or movements in equity for the year ended 31st December 2007 or 2006. b Translational foreign exchange exposure The Group operates in a number of economic environments resulting in structural foreign exchange exposures on net investments in branches, subsidiaries or associated undertakings, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than Sterling.
3 Exchange differences are created by the translation of these net assets measured in their functional currencies to Sterling, the Groups presentational currency.
These exchange differences are recorded in the consolidated translation reserve and reflected in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Additionally the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign exchange movements in reserves, goodwill, minority interests and other nonSterling debt capital as well as non sterling risk weighted assets.
The Groups policy is to economically hedge foreign currency net investments, where practical, after taking consideration of available markets to conduct hedging, the size of the investment and the cost of hedging: unless doing so would result in capital ratios which are overly sensitive to foreign exchange movements.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 239 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 46 Market risk continued The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its foreign currency net investments.
There was no ineffectiveness arising from these hedges in the year ended 31st December 2007.
The carrying value of the Groups foreign currency net investments and the foreign currency borrowings and derivatives used to hedge them as at 31st December 2007 were as follows: Structural Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural net the net the net pre economic Economic currency At 31st December 2007  hedges hedges exposures Functional currency of the operation involved m m m m m m United States Dollar 3,273 1,000 2,273 3,575 1,302 Euro 3,690 1,506 2,184 2,387 203 Rand 3,205 2,599 606 165 441 Japanese Yen 2,986 180 2,773 33 33 Swiss Franc 2,140 2,131 9 9 Other 1,847 53 465 1,329 1,329 Total 17,141 2,739 7,968 6,434 6,127 307 Structural Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural net the net the net pre economic Economic currency At 31st December 2006  hedges hedges exposures Functional currency of the operation involved m m m m m m United States Dollar 4,462 2,141 2,321 2,361 40 Euro 3,409 1,185 2,224 2,180 44 Rand 2,849 2,665 184 165 19 Japanese Yen 2,754 202 2,527 25 25 Swiss Franc 2,071 158 1,900 13 13 Other 2,069 205 410 1,454 742 712 Total 17,614 3,891 7,502 6,221 5,448 773 The economic hedges represent the US Dollar and Euro Preference Shares and Reserve Capital Instruments in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS, and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
The impact of a change in the exchange rate between Sterling and any of the major currencies would be: A higher or lower profit after tax, arising from changes in the exchange rates used to translate items in the consolidated income statement A higher or lower currency translation reserve within equity, representing the retranslation of non Sterling subsidiaries, branches and associated undertakings net of the revaluation of the hedges of net investments.
A higher or lower value of available for sale investments denominated in foreign currencies, impacting the available for sale reserve.
The impact of foreign exchange rate changes on derivatives and borrowings designated as IFRS net investment hedges would be fully offset by the impact on the hedged net investments, resulting in no impact on the Group profit or equity.
240 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
Credit risk arises mainly from commercial and consumer loans and advances, credit cards, and loan commitments arising from such lending activities, but can also arise from credit enhancement provided, such as financial guarantees, letters of credit, endorsements and acceptances.
Barclays is also exposed to other credit risks arising from investments in debt securities and other exposures arising from its trading activities trading exposures including, nonequity trading portfolio assets, derivatives as well as settlement balances with market counterparties and reverse repo loans.
Losses arising from exposures held for trading derivatives, debt securities are accounted for as trading losses, rather than impairment charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit deterioration.
Credit risk management and control responsibilities The granting of credit is one of the Group's major sources of income and is therefore one of its most significant risks, and the Group dedicates considerable resources to controlling it effectively.
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and also to the Group Risk Director.
The Credit Risk function provides Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
The teams within this function manage the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and run the Credit Committee, which approves major credit decisions.
Each business segment has an embedded credit risk management team.
These teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses.
Examples include ensuring that: Maximum exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any individual customer or counterparty: Country risk policy specifies risk appetite by country and avoids excessive concentration of credit risk by country: and Policies are in place to monitor exposures to individual industrial sectors.
The principal committees that review credit risk management, formulate overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are the Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee, the Retail Credit Risk Management Committee, the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
All these Committees receive regular and comprehensive reports on risk issues.
The Retail Credit Risk Management Committee RCRMC oversees exposures, which comprise unsecured personal lending including small businesses, mortgages and credit cards.
The RCRMC monitors the risk profile and performance of the retail portfolios by receipt of key risk measures and indicators at an individual portfolio level, ensuring mitigating actions taken to address performance are appropriate and timely.
Metrics reviewed will consider portfolio composition and both an overall stock and new flow level.
The Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee WCRMC oversees wholesale exposures, comprising lending to businesses, banks and other financial institutions.
The WCRMC monitors exposure by country, industry sector, individual large exposures and exposures to sub-investment grade countries.
3 The monthly Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees exercise oversight through review and challenge of the size and constitution of the portfolios when viewed against Group risk appetite for wholesale and retail credit risks.
They are chaired by the Group Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Directors.
Corporate and commercial lending Corporate accounts which are deemed to contain heightened levels of risk are recorded on graded problem loan lists known as early-warning or watch lists.
These are updated monthly and circulated to the relevant risk control points.
Once listing has taken place, exposures are closely monitored and, where appropriate, reduced.
These lists are graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to the lending, and its probability of default.
Businesses with exposure to corporate customers all work to three categories of increasing concern.
By the time an account becomes impaired it will normally have passed through all three categories, which reflect the need for ever-increasing caution and control.
Where an obligors financial health gives grounds for concern, it is immediately placed into the appropriate category.
All obligors, regardless of financial health, are subject to a full review of all facilities on, at least, an annual basis.
More frequent interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Retail lending Within the retail portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous assets, statistical techniques more readily allow the risk of impairment to be monitored on a portfolio basis.
This applies to UK Retail Banking, Barclays Wealth, International Retail and Commercial Banking and Barclaycard.
Within Local Business, accounts that are deemed to have a heightened level of risk, or that exhibit some unsatisfactory features which could affect viability in the short or medium term, are transferred to a separate Caution refer stream where a cautious approach is appropriate.
Accounts on the Caution refer stream are reviewed on at least a quarterly basis at which time consideration will be given to continuing with the agreed strategy, returning the customer to a lower risk refer stream, or instigating recovery or exit action if the strategy has failed.
Debt securities Managing credit risk associated with debt securities differs in important respects from the process for loans originated by the Group.
Firstly, market prices are generally available for listed bonds and securities and these prices are a good indicator of the credit standing of the issuer.
Secondly, most listed and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies which is another strong indicator of overall credit quality.
Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will have regard to its own internal ratings for the securities.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 241 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued Settlement risk The Group is exposed to settlement risk in its dealings with market counterparties predominantly other financial institutions.
These risks arise, for example, in foreign exchange transactions when Barclays pays away its side of the transaction to another bank or other counterparty before receiving payment from the other side.
The risk is that the counterparty may not meet its obligation.
It also arises on derivative contracts where the carrying value of the financial asset is related to the credit condition of the counterparty.
Settlement risk also arises through the operation of a number of systems through which Barclays makes and receives payments on behalf of its customers.
While these exposures are of short duration, they can be large.
In recent years, settlement risk has been reduced by several industry initiatives that have enabled simultaneous and final settlement of transactions to be made such as  through Continuous Linked Settlement and  in central bank money.
Barclays has worked with its peers in the development of these arrangements.
Increasingly the majority of high value transactions are settled by such mechanisms.
Where these mechanisms are not available, the risk is further reduced by dealing predominantly with highly-rated counterparties, holding collateral and limiting the size of the exposures according to the rating of the counterparty, with smaller exposures to those of higher risk.
Country risk Credit risk is manifested as country risk where difficulties may arise in the country in which the exposure is domiciled, thus impeding or reducing the value of the asset, or where the counterparty is the country itself.
Barclays manages country risk by setting a country risk appetite, which is known as the Country Guideline and agreed at the Group Credit Committee.
All cross-border or domestic foreign currency transactions are aggregated to give the current utilisation, in terms of country loss given default CLGD, against country appetite.
The level of CLGD incurred by a counterparty transaction will largely depend on three main factors: the country severity, the product severity and counterparty grade.
The calculation and loss given default is described under Credit Risk measurement below.
CLGD is incurred in the country of direct risk, defined as where the majority of operating assets are held.
This may differ from the country of incorporation.
However, where transactions are secured with collateral, the country risk can be transferred from the country of the borrower to the country of the collateral provider.
This is only permitted where the collateral definitely covers the borrowing and is not expected to decrease over time.
Credit risk measurement Barclays uses statistical modelling techniques throughout its business in its credit rating systems.
These systems assist the Bank in frontline credit decisions on new commitments and in managing the portfolio of existing exposures.
They enable a coherent approach to risk measurement across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
The key building blocks in the measurement system are the probability of customer default PD, exposure in the event of default EAD, and severity of loss-given-default LGD.
Using these, Barclays builds the analyses that lead to its decision support systems in the Risk Appetite context described previously.
Where financial models are used to monitor credit risk, they are based upon customers personal and financial performance information over recent periods as a predictor for future performance.
The models are reviewed regularly to monitor their robustness relative to actual performance and amended as necessary to optimise their effectiveness.
For corporate and wholesale customers, Barclays also assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
There are two different categories of default rating used.
The first reflects the statistical probability of a customer in a rating class defaulting within the next 12-month period, and is referred to as a point in time rating PIT.
The second also reflects the statistical probability of a customer in a rating class defaulting, but the period of assessment is 12 months of average credit conditions for the customer type.
This type of rating therefore provides a measure of risk that is independent of the current credit conditions for a particular customer type, is much more stable over time than a PIT rating and is referred to as a through the cycle TTC rating.
Country risk grades are assigned to all countries where the Group has, or is likely to have, exposure and are reviewed every quarter to ensure they remain appropriate.
Country grades, which are derived from long-term sovereign foreign currency ratings, range from 1 lowest probability of default to 21 highest probability of default.
A ceiling is applied where a country is graded 12 or lower so that the counterparty cannot be graded higher than the country, unless some form of protection is available in the event of a cross-border event, such as a significant portion of a counterpartys assets or income being held or generated in a convertible currency.
As noted above, for listed debt securities, the Group has regard to both external credit ratings and internal default grades where such ratings are not available or current.
Multiple rating methodologies may be used to inform the rating decision on individual large credits, such as internal and external models, rating agency grades and, for wholesale assets, market information such as credit spreads.
For smaller credits, a single source may suffice, such as the result from a rating model.
For debt securities and counterparties where third party ratings are used to inform credit decisions, the Group mainly uses those provided by Standards and Poors or Moodys.
Barclays wholesale credit rating contains 21 grades, representing the Groups best estimate of credit risk for a counterparty based on current economic conditions.
Retail customers are not assigned internal risk ratings in this way for account management purposes, although a mapping of the PIT probability of default to one of eight Barclays Retail Grades BRG is used for some internal reporting purposes.
The tables below detail how external rating grades, Default Grades and Barclays Retail Grades relate to the categories of credit quality selected for the financial statements.
Where applicable, the internal measure of probability of default has been presented for indicative purposes.
242 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued Listed and unlisted debt securities and market counterparties where external ratings are available External ratings Financial statements description AAA, AA, AA, AA-, A, A, A-, BBB, BBB, BBBStrong BB, BB, BB-, B, B Satisfactory B-, CCC, CCC and lower Weak Substandard Wholesale lending Default Grade Financial statements description Probability of default 1-3 Strong 0.0-0.05% 4-5 0.05-0.15% 6-8 0.15-0.30% 9-11 0.30-0.60% 12-14 Satisfactory 0.60-2.15% 15-19 2.15-11.35% 20-21 Weak Substandard 11.35% Retail lending Barclays Retail Grade Financial statements description Probability of default 1 Strong 0.0-0.15% 2 0.15-0.30% 3 0.30-0.60% 4-5 Satisfactory 0.60-2.50% 5-7 2.50-10.00% 8 Weak Substandard 10.00% Financial statement descriptions can be summarised as follows: Strong there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.
If it is a debt security, then it will be investment grade.
3 Satisfactory whilst there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been conservatively classified as satisfactory, regardless of the fact that the output of internal grading models may have indicated a higher classification.
At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more carefully monitored, for example corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of some deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value ratio, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Weak Sub-standard there is concern over the obligors ability to make payments when due.
However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency.
There may also be doubts over the value of collateral or security provided.
However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
Credit risk mitigation, collateral, security, and other credit enhancements The Group uses a wide variety of techniques to reduce credit risk on its lending.
The most important of these is performing an assessment of the ability of a borrower to service the proposed level of borrowing.
Barclays policy is to establish that loans are within the customers capacity to repay, rather than to rely excessively on security.
As a result no security is required for a wide range of lending products.
Credit risk mitigation Barclays actively manages its credit exposures.
When weaknesses in exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups of exposures the Group takes action to mitigate the risks.
Such actions may, for example, include: reducing the amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, clients or counterparties if appropriate : using credit derivatives securitising the assets: and, on occasion, selling them.
Barclays maintains the diversification of its portfolio to avoid unwanted credit risk concentrations.
Maximum exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any individual counterparty.
These permit higher exposures to higher-rated borrowers than to lower-rated borrowers.
They also distinguish between types of counterparty, for example, between sovereign governments, banks and corporations.
Excesses are considered individually at the time of credit sanctioning, are reviewed regularly, and are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Similarly, country risk policy specifies risk appetite by country and avoids excessive concentrations of credits in individual countries, whilst other policies limit lending to certain industries.
A further protection against undesirable concentration of risk is the mandate and scale framework.
Mandate and scale limits, which can also be set at Group level to reflect overall risk appetite, can relate either to the stock of current exposures in the relevant portfolio or to the flow of new exposures into that portfolio.
Typical limits include the proportion of lending with maturity in excess of seven years and the proportion of new mortgage business that is buy-to-let.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 243 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued Businesses may put in place other forms of credit risk mitigation, such as credit derivatives or other forms of credit protection in accordance with their procedures or policies.
Hedges and mitigants are monitored and risk appetite reviewed to ensure that credit risk is kept to acceptable levels.
Collateral and security Collateral and security can be an important mitigant of credit risk.
The Group routinely obtains collateral and security, such as in the case of a residential or commercial mortgage, a reverse repurchase agreement, or a commercial loan with a floating charge over book debts and inventories.
The Group ensures that any collateral held is sufficiently liquid, legally effective, enforceable and regularly reassessed.
Before attaching value to collateral, businesses holding specific, agreed classes of collateral must ensure that they are holding a correctly perfected charge.
The principal collateral and security types are as follows: Personal lending mortgages over residential properties: Commercial and industrial sector charges over business assets such as premises, stock and debtors, and third party credit protection i. e. guarantees : Commercial real estate sector charges over the properties being financed: and, Over-The-Counter OTC trading exposures cash: direct debt obligation government G14 bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals and letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A A3 or better.
Valuation of the collateral and security taken is within agreed parameters.
Before reliance is placed on third party protection in the form of bank, government or corporate guarantees or credit derivative protection from financial intermediary counterparties, a credit assessment is undertaken.
Eligibility parameters for guarantees and credit derivative are similar to those applied to collateral held against OTC traded exposures.
Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a haircut which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
The Group also uses various forms of specialised legal agreements to reduce risk, including entering into master netting agreement with counterparties, which the Group uses to restrict its exposure to credit losses.
Group policy requires all netting arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting OTC activity.
It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or other pre-determined events occur.
In the normal course of events, where the master agreement is ISDA, the collateral document will be the ISDA Credit Support Annex CSA.
The collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty, and to place further collateral when requested or in the event of insolvency, administration or similar processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Security structures and legal covenants are subject to regular review, at least annually, to ensure that they remain fit for purpose and remain consistent with accepted local market practice.
Any properties repossessed are made available for sale in an orderly and timely fashion, with any proceeds realised being used to reduce or repay the outstanding loan.
For business customers, in some circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full of the outstanding loan, they are offered to any other, lower ranked, secured lenders.
Any additional funds are returned to the customer.
Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed properties for its business use.
Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount.
For financial guarantees granted, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount that Barclays would have to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the full amount of the committed facilities.
The following table presents the maximum exposure at 31 December 2007 and 2006 to credit risk of balance sheet and off balance sheet financial instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements and after allowance for impairment and netting where appropriate.
244 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued This analysis and all subsequent analyses of credit risk include financial assets subject to credit risk only.
They exclude other financial assets, mainly equity securities held in trading portfolio or available for sale as well as non-financial assets.
The nominal value of off-balance sheet credit related instruments are also shown, where appropriate.
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been included as the Group is not exposed to credit risk on these assets.
Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and result in no direct loss to the Group.
2007 2006 m m On balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 7,345 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,836 2,408 Trading portfolio: Treasury and other eligible bills 2,094 2,960 Debt securities 152,778 140,576 Traded loans 1,780 1,843 Total trading portfolio 156,652 145,379 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 23,491 13,196 Debt securities 24,217 12,100 Other financial assets 3,545 2,792 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 51,253 28,088 Derivative financial instruments 248,088 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 40,120 30,926 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 111,955 94,511 Credit card receivables 14,289 13,399 Other personal lending 24,968 20,511 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 183,109 143,836 Finance lease receivables 11,077 10,043 3 Total loans and advances to customers 345,398 282,300 Available for sale financial investments: Treasury and other eligible bills 2,723 2,420 Debt securities 38,673 47,912 Total available for sale financial investments 41,396 50,332 Reverse repurchase agreements 183,075 174,090 Other assets 3,966 4,097 Total on balance sheet 1,077,585 863,318 Off balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 365 287 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 35,692 31,252 Commitments 192,639 205,504 Total off balance sheet 228,696 237,043 Total maximum exposure at 31st December 1,306,281 1,100,361 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 245 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued Whilst the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of the assets, or, in the case of off-balance sheet items the amount guaranteed, committed, accepted or endorsed, in most cases the likely exposure is far less due to collateral, credit enhancements and other actions taken to mitigate the Groups exposure, described below for each class of financial instrument: Asset Nature of collateral obtained or other credit risk mitigation Cash with central banks, items Due to the nature of the counterparties, collateral is generally not sought on these balances which are in the course of collection, and considered to be low risk.
loans and advances to banks Trading portfolio The credit risk of these assets is reflected in their fair values.
No collateral or enhancements are obtained directly from the issuer or counterparty but may be implicit in the terms of the instrument.
Financial assets designated at fair value The credit risk of these assets is reflected in their fair values.
Debt securities may be collateralised, according to held on own account their terms.
Loans and advances included in this category may be collateralised.
Derivatives Credit risk is also minimised where possible through netting agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset.
Collateral will also be sought, depending on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans These are secured by a fixed charge over the property.
In addition, portfolios may be securitised.
Credit card receivables This lending is generally unsecured.
Other personal lending In general this is unsecured.
For certain personal lending, a charge over the borrowers property or other assets may be sought.
Wholesale and corporate loans Various forms of collateral may be sought for these loans, often in the form of a fixed charge over the and advances borrowers property and a floating charge over the current assets of a corporate borrower.
Loan covenants may be put in place to safeguard the banks financial position.
If the exposure is sufficiently large, either individually or at the portfolio level, credit protection in the form of guarantees, credit derivatives or insurance may be taken out.
Finance lease receivables The net investment in the lease is secured through retention of legal title to the leased assets.
Available for sale assets No collateral or enhancements are obtained although collateral may be inherent in the structure of the asset.
Reverse repurchase agreements and These loans are fully collateralised with the securities legally transferred to the Group.
The level of collateral cash collateral on securities borrowed is monitored daily and further collateral calls made when required.
Off balance sheet The Group applies the same risk management policies for off balance sheet risks as it does for its on balance sheet risks.
Collateral may be sought, depending on the strength of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
Acceptances and endorsements Amounts paid are normally repaid by the customer on presentation.
Guarantees and letters of credit The Group is only required to meet its obligations should the customer default, in which case the Group will pledged as security generally have recourse to the customer.
Commitments These are commitments to future lending and are subject to the Groups normal lending policies including taking collateral depending on the customers circumstances.
Financial assets that would be past due or impaired had their terms not been renegotiated Financial assets are generally renegotiated either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue delinquent and will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the asset.
In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which is treated as a new loan.
Credit risk concentrations A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The analyses of credit risk concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged, otherwise, the product type in accordance with the manner in which the Group manages credit risk.
246 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued Analyses of the Groups credit exposure are set out below: Credit risk concentrations by geographical sector 2007 Other Rest of United European United the Kingdom Union States Africa World Total m m m m m m On balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 1,458 2,170 206 1,406 561 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,638 75 110 13 1,836 Trading portfolio 28,959 41,675 53,208 877 31,933 156,652 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 15,713 5,907 20,396 958 8,279 51,253 Derivative financial instruments 60,534 75,017 82,975 2,229 27,333 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 5,515 11,102 13,443 2,581 7,479 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 187,824 56,189 39,944 38,653 22,788 345,398 Available for sale financial investments 5,934 18,354 7,818 2,944 6,346 41,396 Reverse repurchase agreements 42,160 51,734 67,018 2,156 20,007 183,075 Other assets 1,813 617 424 698 414 3,966 Total on balance sheet 351,548 262,840 285,432 52,612 125,153 1,077,585 Off balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 227 5 5 34 94 365 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 7,377 1,468 23,696 1,286 1,865 35,692 Commitments 90,964 23,946 48,657 20,471 8,601 192,639 Total off balance sheet 98,568 25,419 72,358 21,791 10,560 228,696 Total 450,116 288,259 357,790 74,403 135,713 1,306,281 Credit risk concentrations by geographical sector 2006 Other Rest of United European United the 3 Kingdom Union States Africa World Total m m m m m m On balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 4,367 2,275 109 515 79 7,345 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,296 21 82 9 2,408 Trading portfolio assets 27,900 30,508 55,674 762 30,535 145,379 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 9,969 4,559 10,951 244 2,365 28,088 Derivative financial instruments 44,022 41,424 35,485 1,639 15,783 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 6,227 8,511 9,056 2,219 4,913 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 168,043 43,121 25,577 31,274 14,285 282,300 Available for sale financial investments 9,262 22,288 9,132 2,287 7,363 50,332 Reverse repurchase agreements 33,544 41,725 73,415 1,147 24,259 174,090 Other assets 1,288 1,433 237 982 157 4,097 Total on balance sheet 306,918 195,865 219,636 41,151 99,748 863,318 Off balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 220 6 47 14 287 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 5,210 3,489 19,682 1,196 1,675 31,252 Commitments 88,731 27,355 56,546 20,880 11,992 205,504 Total off balance sheet 94,161 30,850 76,228 22,123 13,681 237,043 Total 401,079 226,715 295,864 63,274 113,429 1,100,361 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 247 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued Credit risk concentrations by industrial sector 2007 Transport, Postal and Agriculture, communiManufaccation and turing and ConGovernment Business Wholesale struction Energy Residential Other Finance and Central Financial and other and retail and and mortgage personal lease Banks Services services trade Property water loans lending receivables Total m m m m m m m m m m On balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 8 1,828 1,836 Trading portfolio assets 58,608 83,790 4,434 3,928 924 4,072 895 1 156,652 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 10,914 23,742 570 699 11,325 396 3,509 98 51,253 Derivative financial instruments 2,886 227,609 2,771 5,567 1, 106 8,031 87 31 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 7,88132,239 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 2,036 70,699 41,678 37,722 22,288 8,623 111,955 39,320 11,077 345,398 Available for sale financial investments 8,880 29,693 2,142 249 167 246 19 41,396 Reverse repurchase agreements 1,713 179,459 416 735 752 183,075 Other assets 270 1,506 542 307 168 5 112 1,056 3,966 Total on balance sheet 98,997 650,565 52,553 49,207 36,730 21,373 116,558 40,525 11,077 1,077,585 Off balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 125 111 91 21 4 13 365 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 51 17,021 12,847 1,867 538 2,687 1 680 35,692 Commitments 4,511 30,492 26,370 32,388 11, 282 9,961 10,969 66,666 192,639 Total off balance sheet 4,562 47,638 39,328 34,346 11,841 12,652 10,970 67,359 228,696 Total 103,559 698,203 91,881 83,553 48,571 34,025 127,528 107,884 11,077 1,306,281 248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued Credit risk concentrations by industrial sector 2006 Transport, Postal and Agriculture, communiManufaccation and turing and ConGovernment Business Wholesale struction Energy Residential Other Finance and Central Financial and other and retail and and mortgage personal lease Banks Services services trade Property water loans lending receivables Total m m m m m m m m m m On balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 7,345 7,345 Items in the course of collection from other banks 5 2,403 2,408 Trading portfolio assets 56,222 78,322 2,793 3,333 792 3,043 871 3 145,379 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 6,412 12,101 269 325 6,797 162 2,022 28,088 Derivative financial instruments 1,701 119,812 2,496 5,945 642 7,681 53 23 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 2,221 28,705 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 2,426 45,033 34,543 34,755 20,542 6,810 94,511 33,538 10,142 282,300 Available for sale financial investments 10,055 39,105 733 9 141 257 31 1 50,332 Reverse repurchase agreements 1,205 171,146 107 435 918 20 259 174,090 Other assets 43 2,637 469 78 97 5 768 4,097 Total on balance sheet 87,635 499,264 41,410 44,880 29,929 17,978 97,488 34,592 10,142 863,318 3 Off balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 11 99 38 114 21 1 1 2 287 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 12 20,999 4,313 1,915 907 2,900 9 197 31,252 Commitments 4,914 49,917 23,807 29,164 15,263 12,401 19,375 50,663 205,504 Total off balance sheet 4,937 71,015 28,158 31,193 16,191 15,302 19,385 50,862 237,043 Total 92,572 570,279 69,568 76,073 46,120 33,280 116,873 85,454 10,142 1,100,361 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 249 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued Financial assets subject to credit risk For the purposes of the Groups disclosures regarding credit quality, its financial assets have been analysed as follows: As at 31st December 2007 Neither past Past due due nor but not Total individually individually Individually Impairment carrying impaired impaired impaired Total allowance value m m m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 5,801 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,836 1,836 1,836 Trading portfolio 156,652 156,652 156,652 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 50,896 357 51,253 51,253 Derivatives 248,088 248,088 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 37,601 2,522 40,123 3 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 324,318 16,005 8,844 349,167 3,769 345,398 Available for sale financial investments 41,304 92 41,396 41,396 Reverse repurchase agreements 183,075 183,075 183,075 Other assets 3,966 3,966 3,966 Total 1,053,537 18,976 8,844 1,081,357 3,772 1,077,585 As at 31st December 2006 Neither past Past due due nor but not Total individually individually Individually Impairment carrying impaired impaired impaired Total allowance value m m m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 7,345 7,345 7,345 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,408 2,408 2,408 Trading portfolio 145,379 145,379 145,379 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 28,088 28,088 28,088 Derivatives 138,353 138,353 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 29,355 1,575 30,930 4 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 270,321 10,989 4,321 285,631 3,331 282,300 Available for sale financial investments 50,156 176 50,332 50,332 Reverse repurchase agreements 174,090 174,090 174,090 Other assets 4,097 4,097 4,097 Total 849,592 12,740 4,321 866,653 3,335 863,318 Financial assets designated at fair value, derivatives, and trading portfolios are not subject to impairment allowances as credit losses are fully reflected in their fair values.
The impairment allowance above includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective impairment.
Assets subject to a collective impairment allowance are included in financial assets neither past due nor individually impaired or financial assets past due but not individually impaired, as appropriate.
250 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued a Credit quality of financial assets neither past due nor individually impaired The credit quality of financial assets subject to credit risk, that were neither past due nor impaired, based on the credit ratings on page 243, was as follows: 2007 Weak subStrong Satisfactory standard Total m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,713 123 1,836 Trading portfolio: Treasury bills and other eligible bills 1,984 110 2,094 Debt securities 143,161 8,958 659 152,778 Traded loans 223 1,228 329 1,780 Total trading portfolio 145,368 10,296 988 156,652 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 13,844 6,186 3,104 23,134 Debt securities 10,010 14,207 24,217 Other financial assets 3,541 4 3,545 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 27,395 20,397 3,104 50,896 Derivative financial instruments 243,491 3,630 967 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 35,635 1,955 11 37,601 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 62,748 41,144 1,761 105,653 Credit card receivables 12,582 5 12,587 Other personal lending 2,882 19,915 889 23,686 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 114,695 54,380 2,427 171,502 Finance lease receivables 4,586 6,036 268 10,890 Total loans and advances to customers 184,911 134,057 5,350 324,318 Available for sale financial investments: Debt securities 36,623 1,528 430 38,581 3 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,130 593 2,723 Total available for sale financial investments 38,753 2,121 430 41,304 Reverse repurchase agreements 180,637 2,391 47 183,075 Other assets 2,410 1,452 104 3,966 Total financial assets neither past due nor individually impaired 866,114 176,422 11,001 1,053,537 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 251 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued a Credit quality of financial assets neither past due nor individually impaired continued 2006 Weak subStrong Satisfactory standard Total m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 7,345 7,345 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,814 594 2,408 Trading portfolio: Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,947 13 2,960 Debt securities 133,230 5,907 1,439 140,576 Traded loans 405 1,425 13 1,843 Total trading portfolio 136,582 7,345 1,452 145,379 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 10,586 2,228 382 13,196 Debt securities 5,307 6,793 12,100 Other financial assets 2,637 155 2,792 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 18,530 9,176 382 28,088 Derivative financial instruments 133,980 4,194 179 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 29,008 336 11 29,355 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 53,760 34,019 1,316 89,095 Credit card receivables 11,858 49 11,907 Other personal lending 2,832 16,652 110 19,594 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 92,912 44,583 2,295 139,790 Finance lease receivables 4,481 5,349 105 9,935 Total loans and advances to customers 153,985 112,461 3,875 270,321 Available for sale financial investments: Debt securities 47,687 49 47,736 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,313 107 2,420 Total available for sale financial investments 50,000 156 50,156 Reverse repurchase agreements 171,725 856 1,509 174,090 Other assets 2,548 1,546 3 4,097 Total financial assets neither past due nor individually impaired 705,517 136,664 7,411 849,592 252 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued b Financial assets that are past due but not individually impaired An age analysis of financial assets that are past due but not individually impaired is set out below.
For the purposes of this analysis an asset is considered past due and included below when any payment due under the strict contractual terms is received late or missed.
The amount included is the entire financial asset, not just the payment, of principal or interest or both, overdue.
The Group expends considerable effort in monitoring overdue assets.
Assets may be overdue for a number of reasons, including late processing of payments or documentation, for example, over weekends and holiday periods.
Where assets are considered to be uncollectable they are subject to individual impairment.
Trading portfolio and derivative assets are measured on a fair value basis such that their carrying amount reflects expected defaults.
Amounts that are past due as a result of counterparty credit issues are not significant.
2007 Past Past Past Past due due due Past due up to 1 1-2 2-3 due 6 months month months months 3-6 months and over Total m m m m m m Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 261 4 1 24 67 357 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 261 4 1 24 67 357 Loans and advances to banks 2,031 305 186 2,522 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 3,609 1,349 456 215 184 5,813 Credit card receivables 558 155 107 205 1 1,026 Other personal lending 271 199 193 152 205 1,020 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 6,970 622 267 62 66 7,987 Finance lease receivables 75 28 18 38 159 Total loans and advances to customers 11,483 2,353 1,041 672 456 16,005 Available for sale financial investments: Debt securities 92 92 Total available for sale financial investments 92 92 Total financial assets past due but not individually impaired 13,867 2,662 1,228 696 523 18,976 3 2006 Past Past Past Past due due due Past due up to 1 1-2 2-3 due 6 months month months months 3-6 months and over Total m m m m m m Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account Loans and advances to banks 1,004 234 337 1,575 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 3,394 1,124 280 208 150 5,156 Credit card receivables 622 202 144 304 1,272 Other personal lending 276 118 119 253 1 767 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 3,322 130 180 20 53 3,705 Finance lease receivables 35 10 22 22 89 Total loans and advances to customers 7,649 1,584 745 807 204 10,989 Available for sale financial investments: Debt securities 131 22 23 176 Total available for sale financial investments 131 22 23 176 Total financial assets past due but not individually impaired 8,784 1,840 1,082 830 204 12,740 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 253 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 47 Credit risk continued c Impaired financial assets Financial assets individually assessed as impaired An analysis of financial assets individually assessed as impaired is as follows: 2007 2006 Original Revised Original Revised carrying Impairment carrying carrying Impairment carrying amount allowance amount amount allowance amount m m m m m m Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 621 88 533 384 75 309 Credit card receivables 1,517 725 792 1,250 839 411 Other personal lending 1,635 1,030 605 1,289 954 335 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 4,930 944 3,986 1,280 589 691 Finance lease receivables 141 102 39 118 79 39 Total loans and advances to customers individually impaired 8,844 2,889 5,955 4,321 2,536 1,785 Collective impairment allowance 883 799 Total impairment allowance 3,772 3,335 In addition to the above, there are impaired available for sale debt securities with a carrying value at 31st December 2007 of 432m, after a write-down of 13m.
In 2006, all impaired available for sale debt securities had been disposed of prior to 31st December.
The movements on the impairment allowance during the year were as follows: 2007 Amounts At Acquisitions Unwind Exchange Amounts charged to Balance beginning and of and other written income at 31st of year disposals discount adjustments off Recoveries statement December m m m m m m m m Loans and advances to banks 4 1 13 13 3 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 124 2 5 5 6 132 Credit card receivables 1,030 75 60 4 819 103 658 841 Other personal lending 1,139 53 10 668 54 891 1,373 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 939 1 37 440 46 727 1,310 Finance lease receivables 99 1 30 6 37 113 Total loans and advances to customers 3,331 73 113 53 1,962 214 2,319 3,769 Total impairment allowance 3,335 73 113 53 1,963 227 2,306 3,772 2006 Amounts At Acquisitions Unwind Exchange Amounts charged to Balance beginning and of and other written income at 31st of year disposals discount adjustments off Recoveries statement December m m m m m m m m Loans and advances to banks 4 33 33 4 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 139 8 8 51 14 38 124 Credit card receivables 978 66 21 887 101 925 1,030 Other personal lending 975 22 42 557 63 722 1,139 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 1,253 12 2 69 626 41 354 939 Finance lease receivables 101 11 13 53 7 68 99 Total loans and advances to customers 3,446 23 98 153 2,174 226 2,107 3,331 Total impairment allowance 3,450 23 98 153 2,174 259 2,074 3,335 254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 47 Credit risk continued Collateral and other credit enhancements held Financial assets that are past due or individually assessed as impaired may be partially or fully collateralised or subject to other forms of credit enhancement.
Assets in these categories subject to collateralisation are mainly corporate and residential mortgage loans.
For corporate loans, security may be in the form of floating charges where the value of the collateral varies with the level of assets such as inventory and receivables held by the customer.
For these and other reasons collateral given is only accurately valued on origination of the loan or in the course of enforcement actions and as a result it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the collateral held.
A description and the estimated fair value of collateral held in respect of residential mortgage loans that are past due or individually assessed as impaired was as follows: 2007 2006 Fair Fair value value m m Nature of assets Residential Property 6,488 6,183 Total 6,488 6,183 Collateral included in the above table reflects the Groups interest in the property in the event of default.
That held in the form of charges against residential property in the UK is restricted to the outstanding loan balance.
In other territories, where the Group is not obliged to return any sale proceeds to the mortgagee, the full estimated fair value has been included.
Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained The carrying value of assets held by the Group as at 31st December 2007 as a result of the enforcement of collateral was as follows: 2007 2006 Carrying Carrying Amount Amount m m Nature of assets Residential Property 34 12 Commercial and industrial property 1 2 Other credit enhancements Total 35 14 3 The Group does not use assets obtained in its operations.
Assets obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner for the maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower and the borrowers other creditors in accordance with the relevant insolvency regulations.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 255 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 48 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management and measurement This is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdrawn, with consequent failure to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
The risk that it will be unable to meet its obligations is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution specific and market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and acquisition activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
Intraday liquidity The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is recognised by the Group as a mission critical process: any failure to meet specific intraday commitments would have significant consequences.
The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing and settlement systems.
Major currency payment flows and payment system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments.
Day to day funding Day to day funding is managed by short-term mismatch limits for the next day, week and month which control cash flows to ensure that requirements can be met.
These requirements include replenishment of funds as they mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Group maintains an active presence in global money markets and monitors and manages the wholesale money market capacity for the Groups name to enable that to happen.
In addition to cash flow management, Barclays Treasury also monitors unmatched medium-term assets and the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Liquid Assets The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable assets including UK, US and Euro-area government bonds that can be sold or funded on a secured basis as protection against any unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
The Group accesses secured funding markets in these assets on a regular basis to ensure market access.
The Group does not rely on committed funding lines for protection against unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
Diversification of liquidity sources Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
In addition, to avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation and relationship with those clients, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
Structural liquidity An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
The Group policy is to fund the balance sheet of the retail and commercial bank on a global basis with customer deposits without recourse to the wholesale markets.
This provides protection from the liquidity risk of wholesale market funding.
The exception to this policy is ABSA, which has a large portion of wholesale funding due to the structural nature of the South African financial sector.
Stress tests Stress testing is undertaken to assess and plan for the impact of various scenarios which may put the Groups liquidity at risk.
Treasury develops and monitors a range of stress tests on the Groups projected cash flows.
These stress scenarios include Barclays-specific scenarios such an unexpected rating downgrade and operational problems, and external scenarios such as Emerging Market crises, payment system disruption and macroeconomic shocks.
The output informs both the liquidity mismatch limits and the Groups contingency funding plan.
This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the Banks credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is regularly estimated.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may affect the price at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity is not considered significant in overall Group terms.
256 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 48 Liquidity risk continued Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities.
Derivatives other than those designated in a hedging relationship and trading portfolio assets and liabilities which are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value.
Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity.
Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have been included in Other assets and Other liabilities as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them: any request for funds from creditors would be met by simultaneously liquidating or transferring the related investment.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities i. e nominal values, whereas the Group manages the inherent liquidity risk based on discounted expected cash inflows.
Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Over one year but On Within less than Over demand one year five years five years Total At 31st December 2007 m m m m m Deposits from other banks 16,288 72,533 2,099 275 91,195 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,781 11 1,792 Customer accounts 174,269 112,875 3,739 10,280 301,163 Trading portfolio liabilities 65,402 65,402 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 655 34,008 25,870 31,868 92,401 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 247,378 247,378 designated for risk management 226 479 186 891 Debt securities in issue 698 91,201 22,926 15,020 129,845 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 169,725 146 23 169,894 Subordinated liabilities 463 4,964 17,875 23,302 Other financial liabilities 2,968 1,456 4,424 Total financial liabilities 506,471 484,010 61,679 75,527 1,127,687 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 183,784 3,111 4,513 963 192,371 Other commitments 453 200 145 12 810 Total off balance sheet items 184,237 3,311 4,658 975 193,181 Total financial liabilities and off balance sheet items 690,708 487,321 66,337 76,502 1,320,868 Over one year 3 but not On Within more than Over demand one year five years five years Total At 31st December 2006 m m m m m Deposits from other banks 19,163 58,101 2,317 590 80,171 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 2,154 68 2,222 Customer accounts 153,642 99,165 3,593 2,836 259,236 Trading portfolio liabilities 71,874 71,874 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 6 27,539 13,861 19,827 61,233 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 139,746 139,746 designated for risk management 378 584 199 1,161 Debt securities in issue 17 89,222 13,932 15,668 118,839 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 137,040 366 137,406 Subordinated liabilities 837 7,487 9,411 17,735 Other financial liabilities 3,138 1,072 4,210 Total financial liabilities 386,602 415,488 43,212 48,531 893,833 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 192,293 10,939 1,255 624 205,111 Other commitments 313 370 38 56 777 Total off balance sheet items 192,606 11,309 1,293 680 205,888 Total financial liabilities and off balance sheet items 579,208 426,797 44,505 49,211 1,099,721 Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them.
Any request for funds from investors would be met simultaneously from the linked assets.
The balances in the above table will not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.
The principal due under perpetual subordinated liability instruments has been included in the over five years category.
Further interest payments have not been included on this amount, which according to their strict contractual terms, could carry on indefinitely.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 259 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 49 Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, in an arms-length transaction between knowledgeable willing parties.
The following table summarises the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet, and their fair values: 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Notes m m m m Financial assets: Cash and balances at central banks a 5,801 5,801 7,345 7,345 Items in the course of collection from other banks a 1,836 1,836 2,408 2,408 Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills b 2,094 2,094 2,960 2,960 Debt securities b 152,778 152,778 140,576 140,576 Equity securities b 36,307 36,307 31,548 31,548 Traded Loans b 1,780 1,780 1,843 1,843 Commodities b 732 732 940 940 Financial assets designated at fair value: held in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts b 90,851 90,851 82,798 82,798 held under own account: Equity securities b 5,376 5,376 3,711 3,711 Loans and advances b 23,491 23,491 13,196 13,196 Debt securities b 24,217 24,217 12,100 12,100 Other financial assets designated at fair value b 3,545 3,545 2,793 2,793 Derivative financial instruments b 248,088 248,088 138,353 138,353 Loans and advances to banks c 40,120 40,106 30,926 30,895 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans c 111,955 111,951 94,511 94,511 Credit card receivables c 14,289 14,289 13,399 13,399 Other personal lending c 24,968 24,968 20,511 20,488 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances c 183,109 181,589 143,835 143,621 Finance lease receivables c 11,077 11,066 10,044 10,042 Available for sale financial instruments Treasury and other eligible bills b 2,723 2,723 2,420 2,420 Debt securities b 38,673 38,673 47,912 47,912 Equity securities b 1,676 1,676 1,371 1,371 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed c 183,075 183,075 174,090 174,090 Financial liabilities: Deposits from banks d 90,546 90,508 79,562 79,436 Items in the course of collection due to other banks a 1,792 1,792 2,221 2,221 Customer accounts: Current and demand accounts d 80,006 80,006 77,216 77,216 Savings accounts d 74,599 74,599 65,784 65,792 Other time deposits d 140,382 141,917 113,754 113,653 Trading portfolio liabilities: Treasury and other eligible bills b 486 486 608 608 Debt securities b 50,506 50,506 58,142 58,142 Equity securities b 13,702 13,702 12,697 12,697 Commodities b 708 708 427 427 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: Liabilities to customers under investment contracts b 92,639 92,639 84,637 84,637 Held on own account b 74,489 74,489 53,987 53,987 Derivative financial instruments b 248,288 248,288 140,697 140,697 Debt securities in issue e 120,228 120,176 111,137 111,131 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent d 169,429 169,429 136,956 136,956 Subordinated liabilities f 18,150 17,410 13,786 13,976 260 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 49 Fair value of financial instruments continued Notes a Fair value approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these financial assets and liabilities.
b Financial instruments at fair value including those held for trading, designated at fair value, derivatives and available for sale are either priced with reference to a quoted market price for that instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the fair value is calculated using a valuation model, the methodology is to calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value.
The expected cash flows for each contract are determined either directly by reference to actual cash flows implicit in observable market prices or through modelling cash flows using appropriate financial-markets pricing models.
Wherever possible these models use as their basis observable market prices and rates including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
The process of calculating fair value on illiquid instruments or from a valuation model may require estimation of certain pricing parameters, assumptions or model characteristics.
These estimates are calibrated against industry standards, economic models and observed transaction prices.
Changes to assumptions or estimated levels can potentially impact the fair value of an instrument as reported.
The effect of changing these assumptions, for those financial instruments for which the fair values were measured using valuation techniques that are determined in full or in part on assumptions that are not supported by observable market prices, to a range of reasonably possible alternative assumptions, would be to increase the fair value by up to 1.5bn 2006: 0.1bn or to decrease the fair value by up to 1.2bn 2006: 0.1bn.
These variations in the assumptions have been estimated on a product by product basis and form part of the Banks internal control processes over the determination of fair value.
The valuation model used for a particular instrument, the quality and liquidity of market data used for pricing, other fair value adjustments not specifically captured by the model, market data and assumptions or estimates in these are all subject to internal review and approval procedures and consistent application between accounting periods.
The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price the fair value at initial recognition and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less amounts subsequently recognised, was as follows: 2007 2006 At 31st December m m At 1st January 534 260 New transactions 134 359 Amounts recognised in profit or loss during the year 514 85 At 31st December 154 534 The net asset fair value position of the related financial instruments increased by 2,842m for the year ended 31st December 2007 31st December 2006: 2,814m.
In many cases these changes in fair values were offset by changes in fair values of other financial instruments, which were priced in active markets or valued by using a valuation technique which is supported by observable market prices or rates, or by transactions which have 3 been realised.
c The fair value for loans and advances, and other lending including reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed is calculated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates where practicable or, where the counterparty is a bank, rates currently offered by other financial institutions for placings with similar characteristics.
In many cases the fair value approximates carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently.
d The fair value of customer accounts other deposits and other borrowings including repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent is estimated using market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of these instruments approximate to carrying amount in most cases because, in general, they are short term in nature and reprice frequently.
e Fair values of short-term debt securities in issue are approximately equal to their carrying amount.
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where these are unavailable, are estimated using other valuation techniques.
f The calculated fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital were based upon quoted market rates for the issue concerned or equivalent issues with similar terms and conditions.
The Group considers that, given the lack of an established market, the diversity of fee structures and the difficulty of separating the value of the instruments from the value of the overall transaction, it is not meaningful to provide an estimate of the fair value of financial commitments and contingent liabilities.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 261 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 50 Capital Management Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering both regulatory and economic capital.
The capital management strategy is to continue to maximise shareholder value through optimising both the level and mix of capital resources.
Decisions on the allocation of capital resources are conducted as part of the strategic planning review.
The Groups capital management objectives are to: Support the Groups AA credit rating.
Maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups risk appetite and economic capital requirements.
Maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the FSAs minimum regulatory capital requirements and the US Federal Reserve Banks requirements that a financial holding company be well capitalised.
Ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements.
External Regulatory Capital Requirements The Group is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Financial Services Authority FSA, following guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the Basel Committee and implemented in the UK via European Union Directives.
Minimum requirements under FSAs Basel rules are expressed as a ratio of capital resources to risk weighted assets Risk Asset Ratio.
Risk weighted assets are a function of risk weights applied to the Groups assets using calculations developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
Under Basel II, effective from 1st January 2008, the Group has been granted approval by the FSA to adopt the advanced approaches to credit and operational risk management.
Pillar 1 risk weighted assets will be generated using the Groups risk models.
Pillar 1 minimum capital requirements under Basel II are Pillar 1 risk weighted assets multiplied by 8%, the internationally agreed minimum ratio.
Under Pillar 2 of Basel II, the Group is subject to an overall regulatory capital requirement based on individual capital guidance ICG received from the FSA.
The ICG imposes additional capital requirements in excess of Pillar 1 minimum capital requirements.
Barclays received its ICG from the FSA in December 2007.
Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Japanese FSA and the Monetary Authority of Singapore : Africa, where the Groups operations are headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa The South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board FSB and the United States of America the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual countries meet their minimum capital requirements.
Local management manages compliance with subsidiary entity minimum regulatory capital requirements with reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees and to Treasury Committee, as required.
Regulatory Capital Ratios The table below provides details under Basel I of the Groups capital ratios and risk weighted assets at 31st December 2007 and 2006.
2007 2006 % % Capital Ratios Tier 1 ratio 7.8 7.7 Risk asset ratio 12.1 11.7 m m Total risk weighted assets 353,476 297,833 The table below provides details of the regulatory capital resources managed by the Group.
2007 2006 m m Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 27,408 23,005 Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 17,123 14,036 Total deductions 1,889 2,330 Total net capital resources 42,642 34,711 Insurance businesses Insurance businesses are subject to separate regulation regarding Capital management and have constraints on the transfer of capital.
Capital resource requirements are assessed at company level in accordance with local laws and regulations.
However, the requirement is that each life fund should be able to meet its own liabilities.
In the event that this should not be the case, shareholders equity would be required to meet its liabilities to the extent that they could not otherwise be met.
The capital resource requirement of the insurance businesses at 31st December 2007 was 216m 31st December 2006: 225m.
262 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 51 Segmental reporting Business segments The Group reports the results of its operations through seven business segments: UK Banking, Barclaycard, International Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Capital, Barclays Global Investors, Barclays Wealth, and Head Office and other operations.
UK Banking provides banking solutions to Barclays UK retail and commercial banking customers.
Barclaycard provides credit card services across Europe and the United States.
International Retail and Commercial Banking provides banking services to personal and corporate customers in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Barclays Capital conducts the Groups investment banking business providing corporate, institutional and government clients with financing and risk management products.
Barclays Global Investors provides investment management products and services to international institutional clients.
Barclays Wealth provides banking and asset management services to affluent and high net worth clients.
Head Office functions and other operations comprise all the Groups central function costs and other central items including businesses in transition.
During 2007 Barclays realigned a number of reportable business segments to better reflect the type of client served, the nature of the products offered and the associated risks and rewards.
The changes have no impact on the Group Income Statement or Balance Sheet, and are summarised as follows: UK Retail Banking.
The unsecured lending business, previously managed and reported within Barclaycard and the Barclays Financial Planning business, previously managed and reported within Barclays Wealth are now managed and reported within UK Retail Banking.
The changes combine these products with related products already offered by UK Retail Banking.
In the UK certain UK Premier customers are now managed and reported within Barclays Wealth.
The unsecured lending portfolio, previously managed and reported within Barclaycard, is now managed and reported within UK Retail Banking.
International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa.
A number of high net worth customers are now managed and reported within Barclays Wealth in order to better match client profiles to wealth services.
In the UK and Western Europe certain Premier and high net worth customers are now managed and reported within Barclays Wealth having been previously reported within UK Retail Banking and International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa.
The Barclays Financial Planning business previously managed and reported within Barclays Wealth, is now managed and reported within UK Retail Banking.
Finally with effect from 1st January 2007 Barclays Wealth closed life assurance activities continues to be managed within Barclays Wealth and for reporting purposes has been combined rather than being reported separately.
The structure and reporting remains unchanged for Barclays Commercial Bank, International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa, Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Investors.
All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms length basis.
Internal charges and transfer pricing adjustments are reflected in the performance of each business.
Head office functions and other operations contains a centralised treasury function, which deals with the Groups funding requirements.
The funding requirements of each business segment reflects funding at market rates and not internally generated transfer prices and is therefore not separately disclosed within inter-segment net income.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 263 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2007 51 Segmental reporting continued International Head office Retail and Barclays functions UK Commercial Barclays Global Barclays and other Banking Barclaycard Banking Capital Investors Wealth operations Total As at 31st December 2007 m m m m m m m m Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 6,913 2,340 3,510 6,934 1,915 1,343 45 23,000 Inter-segment income 62 146 13 185 11 56 237 Total income net of insurance claims 6,851 2,486 3,523 7,119 1,926 1,287 192 23,000 Impairment charge and other credit provisions 849 838 252 846 7 3 2,795 Segment expenses external 2,521 909 3,494 3,989 1,180 829 277 13,199 Inter-segment expenses 849 192 1,138 16 12 144 43 Total expenses 3,370 1,101 2,356 3,973 1,192 973 234 13,199 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 7 7 7 35 42 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 14 13 1 28 Business segment performance before tax 2,653 540 935 2,335 734 307 428 7,076 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 107 57 242 181 22 18 26 653 Impairment loss intangible assets 13 1 14 a Capital expenditure 393 105 456 407 687 196 55 2,299 Investments in associates and joint ventures 6 19 108 171 85 377 Total assets 161,777 22,164 89,457 839,662 89,224 18,024 7,053 1,227,361 Total liabilities 166,988 1,559 48,809 811,516 87,101 43,988 34,924 1,194,885 International Head office Retail and Barclays functions UK Commercial Barclays Global Barclays and other Banking Barclaycard Banking Capital Investors Wealth operations Total As at 31st December 2006 m m m m m m m m Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 6,804 2,355 3,220 6,206 1,670 1,198 142 21,595 Inter-segment income 63 159 29 61 5 38 143 Total income net of insurance claims 6,741 2,514 3,249 6,267 1,665 1,160 1 21,595 Impairment charge and other credit provisions 887 1,067 167 42 2 11 2,154 Segment expenses external 2,626 712 2,177 3,988 940 772 1,459 12,674 Inter-segment expenses 763 269 15 21 11 141 1,190 Total expenses 3,389 981 2,162 4,009 951 913 269 12,674 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 5 8 49 46 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 76 247 323 Business segment performance before tax 2,546 458 1,216 2,216 714 245 259 7,136 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 96 45 180 132 13 10 115 591 Impairment loss intangible assets 7 7 a Capital expenditure 232 84 206 246 406 45 152 1,371 Investments in associates and joint ventures 12 89 56 71 228 Total assets 147,576 20,082 68,588 657,922 80,515 15,022 7,082 996,787 Total liabilities 156,906 1,812 37,031 632,208 79,366 37,652 24,422 969,397 Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
264 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements 51 Segmental reporting continued International Head office Retail and Barclays functions UK Commercial Barclays Global Barclays and other Banking Barclaycard Banking Capital Investors Wealth operations Total As at 31st December 2005 m m m m m m m m Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 6,240 2,138 1,904 4,388 1,318 1,051 294 17,333 Inter-segment income 4 161 12 117 17 269 Total income net of insurance claims 6,236 2,299 1,916 4,505 1,318 1,034 25 17,333 Impairment charge and other credit provisions 671 753 33 111 2 1 1,571 Segment expenses external 2,663 736 1,338 2,952 769 765 1,304 10,527 Inter-segment expenses 663 172 2 11 10 103 957 Total expenses 3,326 908 1,336 2,963 779 868 347 10,527 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 3 1 46 1 45 Business segment performance before tax 2,236 639 593 1,431 540 164 323 5,280 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 54 40 111 99 10 8 119 441 Impairment loss intangible assets 6 3 9 a Capital expenditure 78 153 2,580 294 155 14 192 3,466 Investments in associates and joint ventures 31 80 415 20 546 Total assets 137,981 18,236 63,383 601,193 80,900 13,401 9,263 924,357 Total liabilities 140,658 1,561 34,458 576,350 80,115 34,802 31,983 899,927 Geographic segments Other 3 United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2007 m m m m m m Total income net of insurance claims 13,127 3,374 2,209 3,188 1,102 23,000 Total assets by location of asset 429,443 285,719 301,973 56,117 154,109 1,227,361 a Capital expenditure by location of asset 894 303 789 225 88 2,299 Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2006 m m m m m m Total income net of insurance claims 12,154 2,882 2,840 2,791 928 21,595 Total assets by location of asset 406,328 203,929 229,779 44,696 112,055 996,787 a Capital expenditure by location of asset 569 62 565 136 39 1,371 Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2005 m m m m m m Total income net of insurance claims 10,697 1,995 2,421 1,445 775 17,333 Total assets by location of asset 348,703 196,965 230,200 48,803 99,686 924,357 a Capital expenditure by location of asset 449 119 276 2,586 36 3,466 Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 265 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income a 25,308 21,805 17,232 Interest expense a 15,707 12,662 9,157 Net interest income 9,601 9,143 8,075 Fee and commission income b 8,682 8,005 6,430 Fee and commission expense b 970 828 725 Net fee and commission income 7,712 7,177 5,705 Net trading income c 3,759 3,632 2,321 Net investment income c 1,216 962 858 Principal transactions 4,975 4,594 3,179 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,011 1,060 872 Other income d 224 257 178 Total income 23,523 22,231 18,009 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 492 575 645 Total income net of insurance claims 23,031 21,656 17,364 Impairment charges 7 2,795 2,154 1,571 Net income 20,236 19,502 15,793 Staff costs 8 8,405 8,169 6,318 Administration and general expenses 9 4,141 3,914 3,768 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 467 455 362 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 186 136 79 Operating expenses 13,199 12,674 10,527 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 42 46 45 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 28 323 Profit before tax 7,107 7,197 5,311 Tax 10 1,981 1,941 1,439 Profit after tax 5,126 5,256 3,872 Profit attributable to minority interests 377 342 177 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,749 4,914 3,695 5,126 5,256 3,872 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 182 to 265, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 270 to 278.
266 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2007 2006 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 6,795 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,836 2,408 Trading portfolio assets e 193,726 177,884 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 56,629 31,799 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 90,851 82,798 Derivative financial instruments 14 248,088 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 15 40,120 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 15 345,398 282,300 Available for sale financial investments f 43,256 51,952 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 183,075 174,090 Other assets g 5,153 5,850 Current tax assets 19 518 557 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 377 228 Goodwill 21 7,014 6,092 Intangible assets 22 1,282 1,215 Property, plant and equipment 23 2,996 2,492 Deferred tax assets 19 1,463 764 Total assets 1,227,583 996,503 Liabilities Deposits from banks 90,546 79,562 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,792 2,221 Customer accounts 295,849 256,754 Trading portfolio liabilities e 65,402 71,874 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 74,489 53,987 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 92,639 84,637 Derivative financial instruments 14 248,288 140,697 Debt securities in issue 120,228 111,137 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 169,429 136,956 3 Other liabilities h 10,514 10,337 Current tax liabilities 19 1,311 1,020 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 3,903 3,878 Subordinated liabilities 27 18,150 13,786 Deferred tax liabilities 19 855 282 Provisions 28 830 462 Retirement benefit liabilities 30 1,537 1,807 Total liabilities 1,195,762 969,397 Shareholders equity Called up share capital i 2,382 2,363 Share premium account i 10,751 9,452 Other reserves j 170 484 Other shareholders equity k 2,687 2,534 Retained earnings j 14,222 11,556 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 29,872 25,421 Minority interests l 1,949 1,685 Total shareholders equity 31,821 27,106 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 1,227,583 996,503 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 182 to 265, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 270 to 278.
These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 7th March 2008.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 267 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Available for sale reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 389 107 217 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 13 86 Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal 563 327 120 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 68 14 260 Cash flow hedging reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 106 437 50 Net losses gains transferred to net profit 253 50 69 Currency translation differences 54 781 300 Tax 54 253 50 Other 22 25 102 Amounts included directly in equity 396 1,110 52 Profit after tax 5,126 5,256 3,872 Total recognised income and expense for the year 5,522 4,146 3,924 Attributable to: Equity holders 5,135 4,132 3,659 Minority interests 387 14 265 5,522 4,146 3,924 268 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 7,107 7,197 5,311 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 2,795 2,154 1,571 Depreciation and amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 669 612 450 Other provisions, including pensions 753 558 654 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 42 46 45 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 862 778 530 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 26 263 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 2 60 Other non-cash movements 1,471 1,661 1,505 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 77,987 27,385 63,177 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 91,451 46,944 67,012 Net increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 2,144 1,196 841 Net increase in trading portfolio assets 18,245 18,333 42,585 Net decrease increase in trading liabilities 6,472 310 9,888 Net increase decrease in financial investments 4,379 1,538 27,129 Net increase decrease in other assets 1,296 1,527 411 Net decrease in other liabilities 1,056 1,580 2,852 Tax paid 1,583 2,141 1,082 Net cash from operating activities 10,198 10,057 3,679 Purchase of available for sale investments 26,947 47,109 53,626 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 38,423 46,069 51,114 Purchase of intangible assets 263 212 91 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,241 654 588 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 617 786 98 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 270 248 2,115 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 383 15 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 668 432 160 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 57 44 49 3 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 220 162 176 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 145 739 40 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 17 23 Net cash used in investing activities 10,016 1,177 5,432 Dividends paid 3,418 2,373 2,325 Proceeds from borrowings and issuance of debt securities 4,625 2,493 1,179 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 683 366 464 Issue of shares and other equity instruments 1,355 585 2,383 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 1,434 Net issues of shares to minority interests 199 226 20 Net cash from financing activities 3,512 565 793 Exchange loss gain on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 654 552 237 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 2,676 9,997 1,197 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 30,402 20,405 21,602 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33,078 30,402 20,405 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash in hand 5,801 6,795 3,506 Loans and advances to banks 40,120 30,926 31,105 Less: amounts with original maturity greater than three months 19,376 15,892 17,987 20,744 15,034 13,118 Available for sale financial investments 43,256 51,952 53,703 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 41,872 50,933 53,487 1,384 1,019 216 Trading portfolio assets 193,726 177,884 155,730 Less: non-cash and amounts with maturity greater than three months 188,591 170,346 152,190 5,135 7,538 3,540 Other 14 16 25 33,078 30,402 20,405 In 2005, the opening cash and cash equivalents balance was adjusted to reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 269 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts a Net interest income 2007 2006 2005 m m m Cash and balances with central banks 145 91 9 Available for sale investments 2,580 2,811 2,272 Loans and advances to banks 1,416 903 690 Loans and advances to customers 19,559 16,290 12,944 Other 1,608 1,710 1,317 Interest income 25,308 21,805 17,232 Deposits from banks 2,720 2,819 2,056 Customer accounts 4,110 3,076 2,715 Debt securities in issue 6,651 5,282 3,268 Subordinated liabilities 878 777 605 Other 1,348 708 513 Interest expense 15,707 12,662 9,157 Net interest income 9,601 9,143 8,075 Interest income includes 113m 2006: 98m, 2005: 76m accrued on impaired loans.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14. b Net fee and commission income 2007 2006 2005 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 109 70 64 Investment management fees 1,787 1,535 1,250 Securities lending 241 185 151 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 6,367 6,031 4,805 Foreign exchange commissions 178 184 160 Fee and commission income 8,682 8,005 6,430 Brokerage fees paid 970 828 725 Fee and commission expense 970 828 725 Net fee and commission income 7,712 7,177 5,705 270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements c Principal transactions 2007 2006 2005 m m m Rates related business 4,162 2,866 1,732 Credit related business 403 766 589 Net trading income 3,759 3,632 2,321 Gain from disposal of available for sale assets investment securities 560 307 120 Dividend income on equity investments 26 15 22 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 293 447 389 Other investment income 337 193 327 Net investment income 1,216 962 858 Principal transactions 4,975 4,594 3,179 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to market value, together with the interest income and expense from these instruments and the related funding cost.
d Other income 2007 2006 2005 m m m Increase in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,592 7,417 9,234 Increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,592 7,417 9,234 Property rentals 53 55 54 3 Other income 171 202 124 Other income 224 257 178 Included in other income are sub-lease receipts of 18m 2006: 18m, 2005: 18m.
Included in other income in 2007 is a loss on the part disposal of Monument credit card portfolio and gains on reinsurance transactions in 2007 and 2006. e Trading portfolio assets 2007 2006 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 2,094 2,960 Debt securities 152,778 140,576 Equity securities 36,342 31,565 Traded loans 1,780 1,843 Commodities 732 940 Trading portfolio assets 193,726 177,884 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 271 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts f Available for sale financial investments 2007 2006 m m Debt securities 38,673 47,912 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,723 2,420 Equity securities 1,860 1,620 Available for sale financial investments 43,256 51,952 2007 2006 Movement in available for sale financial investments m m At beginning of year 51,952 53,703 Exchange and other adjustments 1,499 3,999 Acquisitions and transfers 26,950 47,109 Disposals sale and redemption 37,498 44,959 Gains from changes in fair value recognised in equity 391 182 Impairment 13 86 Amortisation of discounts premium 25 2 At end of year 43,256 51,952 g Other assets 2007 2006 m m Sundry debtors 4,045 4,298 Prepayments 551 658 Accrued income 400 722 Reinsurance assets 157 172 Other assets 5,153 5,850 Included in the above Group balances are 4,541m 2006: 5,065m expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 612m 2006: 785m expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
h Other liabilities 2007 2006 m m Accruals and deferred income 6,075 6,127 Sundry creditors 4,356 4,118 Obligations under finance leases 83 92 Other liabilities 10,514 10,337 Included in the above are balances of 9,058m 2006: 9,265m expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,456m 2006: 1,072m expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income included 102m 2006: 107m in relation to deferred income from investment contracts and 677m 2006: 822m in relation to deferred income from insurance contracts for the Group.
272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements i Called up share capital Ordinary Shares The authorised ordinary share capital of the Bank, as at 31st December 2007, was 3,000 million 2006: 3,000 million ordinary shares of 1 each.
During the year, the Bank issued 7 million ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 7m, for cash consideration of 111m.
Preference Shares The authorised preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2007, was 1,000 Preference Shares 2006: 1,000 of 1: 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2006: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2006: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of US$100 each 2006: 400,000 : 150 million Preference Shares of US$0.25 each 2006: 80 million.
The issued preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2007, comprised 1,000 2006: 1,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 1 each: 240,000 2006: 240,000 Euro Preference Shares of 100 each: 75,000 2006: 75,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 100 each: 100,000 2006: 100,000 US Dollar Preference Shares of US$100 each: 131 million 2006: 30 million US Dollar Preference Shares of US$0.25 each.
2007 2006 m m Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 2,329 2,318 Issued for cash 7 11 At end of year 2,336 2,329 Called up preference share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 34 30 Issued for cash 12 4 At end of year 46 34 Called up share capital 2,382 2,363 Share premium 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 9,452 8,882 Ordinary shares issued for cash 104 168 Preference shares issued for cash 1,195 402 At end of year 10,751 9,452 3 Sterling 1 Preference Shares 1,000 Sterling cumulative callable preference shares of 1 each the 1 Preference Shares were issued on 31st December 2004 at nil premium.
The 1 Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive sterling cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semiannually at a rate reset semi-annually equal to the sterling interbank offered rate for six-month sterling deposits.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be obliged to pay such dividends if 1 it has profits available for the purpose of distribution under the Companies Act 1985 as at each dividend payment date and 2 it is solvent on the relevant dividend payment date, provided that a capital regulations condition is satisfied on such dividend payment date.
The dividends shall not be due and payable on the relevant dividend payment date except to the extent that Barclays Bank PLC could make such payment and still be solvent immediately thereafter.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be considered solvent on any date if 1 it is able to pay its debts to senior creditors as they fall due and 2 its auditors have reported within the previous six months that its assets exceed its liabilities.
If Barclays Bank PLC shall not pay, or shall pay only in part, a dividend for a period of seven days or more after the due date for payment, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares may institute proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC.
No remedy against Barclays Bank PLC shall be available to the holder of any 1 Preference Shares for the recovery of amounts owing in respect of 1 Preference Shares other than the institution of proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC and or proving in such winding-up.
On a winding-up or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase by Barclays Bank PLC of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, permitted by the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC and under applicable law, the assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders shall be applied in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking junior to the 1 Preference Shares on such a return of capital and pari passu on such a return of capital with the holders of any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue other than any class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking in priority to the 1 Preference Shares on a winding-up or other such return of capital, in payment to the holders of the 1 Preference Shares of a sum equal to the aggregate of: 1 an amount equal to the dividends accrued thereon for the then current dividend period and any accumulated arrears thereof to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital: and 2 an amount equal to 1 per 1 Preference Share.
After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of Barclays Bank PLC and will not be entitled to any further participation in such return of capital.
The 1 Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, subject to the Companies Act and its Articles.
Holders of the 1 Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 273 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts i Called up share capital continued Euro Preference Shares 100,000 Euro 4.875% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.875% Preference Shares were issued on 8th December 2004 for a consideration of 993.6m 688.4m, of which the nominal value was 10m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.875% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.875% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2014, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.05% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.875% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2014, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
140,000 Euro 4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.75% Preference Shares were issued on 15th March 2005 for a consideration of 1,383.3m 966.7m, of which the nominal value was 14m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th March 2020, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 0.71% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th March 2020, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
Sterling Preference Shares 75,000 Sterling 6.0% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 6.0% Preference Shares were issued on 22nd June 2005 for a consideration of 732.6m, of which the nominal value was 7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.0% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 6.0% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2017, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.42% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month Sterling deposits.
The 6.0% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2017, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
US Dollar Preference Shares 100,000 US Dollar 6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$100 each the 6.278% Preference Shares, represented by 100,000 American Depositary Shares, Series 1, were issued on 8th June 2005 for a consideration of US$995.4m 548.1m, of which the nominal value was US$10m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.278% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.278% per annum on the amount of US$10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2034, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.55% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month US Dollar deposits.
The 6.278% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2034, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
30 million US Dollar 6.625% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 6.625% Preference Shares, represented by 30 million American Depositary Shares, Series 2, were issued on 25th and 28th April 2006 for a consideration of US$727m 406m, of which the nominal value was US$7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.625% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 6.625% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 6.625% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th September 2011, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
55 million US Dollar 7.1% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 7.1% Preference Shares, represented by 55 million American Depositary Shares, Series 3, were issued on 13th September 2007 for a consideration of US$1,335m 657m, of which the nominal value was US$13.75m and the balance was share premium.
The 7.1% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.1% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 7.1% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2012, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
46 million US Dollar 7.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 7.75% Preference Shares, represented by 46 million American Depositary Shares, Series 4, were issued on 7th December 2007 for a consideration of US$1,116m 550m, of which the nominal value was US$11.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 7.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.75% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 7.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2013, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
274 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements i Called up share capital continued No redemption or purchase of any 4.875% Preference Shares, the 4.75% Preference Shares, the 6.0% Preference Shares, the 6.278% Preference Shares, the 6.625% Preference Shares, the 7.1% Preference Shares and the 7.75% Preference Shares together the Preference Shares may be made by Barclays Bank PLC without the prior notification to the UK FSA and any such redemption will be subject to the Companies Act and the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC.
On a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase of shares of Barclays Bank PLC, or a reduction of share capital, a holder of Preference Shares will rank in the application of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders 1 junior to the holder of any shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking in priority to the Preference Shares, 2 equally in all respects with holders of other preference shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking pari passu with the Preference Shares and 3 in priority to the holders of ordinary shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
The holders of the 400m 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes and the US$1,000m 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes of Barclays Bank PLC together, the TONs and the holders of the US$1,250m 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$750m 7.375% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 850m 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,350m 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments and the US$1,250m 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments of Barclays Bank PLC together, the RCIs would, for the purposes only of calculating the amounts payable in respect of such securities on a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC, subject to limited exceptions and to the extent that the TONs and the RCIs are then in issue, rank pari passu with the holders of the most senior class or classes of preference shares then in issue in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC.
Accordingly, the holders of the preference shares would rank equally with the holders of such TONs and RCIs on such a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC unless one or more classes of shares of Barclays Bank PLC ranking in priority to the preference shares are in issue at the time of such winding-up, in which event the holders of such TONs and RCIs would rank equally with the holders of such shares and in priority to the holders of the preference shares.
Subject to such ranking, in such event, holders of the preference shares will be entitled to receive out of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available for distributions to shareholders, liquidating distributions in the amount of 10,000 per 4.875% Preference Share, 10,000 per 4.75% Preference Share, 10,000 per 6.0% Preference Share, US$10,000 per 6.278% Preference Share, US$25 per 6.625% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.1% Preference Share and US$25 per 7.75% Preference Share, plus, in each case, an amount equal to the accrued dividend for the then current dividend period to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital.
If a dividend is not paid in full on any preference shares on any dividend payment date, then a dividend restriction shall apply.
Holders of the preference shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays Bank PLC is not permitted to create a class of shares ranking as regards participation in the profits or assets of Barclays Bank PLC in priority to the preference shares, 3 save with the sanction of a special resolution of a separate general meeting of the holders of the preference shares requiring a majority of not less than three-fourths of the holders of the preference shares voting at the separate general meeting, or with the consent in writing of the holders of threefourths of the preference shares.
Except as described above, the holders of the preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 275 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts j Reserves Other reserves Available Cash flow for sale hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1st January 2007 184 230 438 484 Net gains from changes in fair value 385 182 567 Net gains losses transferred to net profit 560 198 362 Currency translation differences 29 29 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 13 13 Changes in insurance liabilities 22 22 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 68 68 Tax 1 124 102 23 At 31st December 2007 111 26 307 170 Retained earnings Retained earnings m At 1st January 2007 11,556 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,749 Equity-settled share schemes 567 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 28 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 524 Dividends paid 3,287 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 345 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 1,434 Other movements 44 At 31st December 2007 14,222 At 1st January 2006 8,462 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,914 Equity-settled share schemes 663 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 96 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 394 Dividends paid 1,964 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 329 Other movements 108 At 31st December 2006 11,556 Transfers from the cashflow hedging reserve to the income statement were: interest income 93m loss 2006: 7m loss, interest expense 11m gain 2006: 73m gain, net trading income 100m loss 2006: 15m loss and administration and general expenses of 16m loss 2006: nil.
k Other shareholders equity 2007 2006 m m At 1st January 2,534 2,490 Appropriations 8 44 Other movements 145 At 31st December 2,687 2,534 Included in other shareholders equity are: Issuances of reserve capital instruments which bear a fixed rate of interest ranging between 7.375%-8.55% until 2010 or 2011.
After these dates, in the event that the reserve capital instruments are not redeemed, they will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London or European interbank rates.
These instruments are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June or December 2010 or 2011.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the reserve capital instruments for any period of time.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
Issuance of capital notes which bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
These notes are repayable in each case, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its capital notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC.
276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial statements l Minority interests 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 1,685 1,578 Share of profit after tax 377 342 Dividend and other payments 131 127 Equity issued by subsidiaries 137 233 Available for sale reserve: net gain loss from changes in fair value 1 2 Cash flow hedges: net loss from changes in fair value 16 9 Currency translation differences 16 316 Additions 27 20 Disposals 111 34 Other 36 At end of year 1,949 1,685 m Dividends 2007 2006 m m On ordinary shares Final dividend 791 730 Interim dividends 2,496 1,234 Dividends 3,287 1,964 These dividends are paid to enable Barclays PLC to fund its dividends to its shareholders and in 2007, to fund the repurchase by Barclays PLC of ordinary share capital.
Dividends paid on preference shares amounted to 193m 2006: 174m.
Dividends paid on other equity instruments as detailed in Note k amounted to 152m 2006: 151m.
n Financial risks The only significant financial instruments that are held by Barclays Bank PLC and not Barclays PLC are investments in Barclays PLC ordinary shares, dealt 3 with as trading portfolio equity assets and available for sale financial investments as appropriate.
There consequently are no significant differences in exposures to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and the fair value of financial instruments between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and no differences in the manner in which these financial risks are managed.
Therefore the disclosures regarding financial risks appearing in Notes 45 to 48 are in all material respects the same for Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC.
o Capital The Barclays Bank PLC Groups policies and objectives for managing capital are the same as those for the Barclays PLC Group, disclosed in Note 50.
The table below provides details under Basel I of the Barclays Bank PLC Group capital ratios and risk weighted assets at 31st December 2007 and 2006.
2007 2006 % % Capital Ratios Tier 1 ratio 7.5 7.5 Risk asset ratio 11.8 11.5 2007 2006 m m Total risk weighted assets 353,471 297,833 The table below provides details of the regulatory capital resources of Barclays Bank PLC Group.
2007 2006 m m Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 26,534 22,455 Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 17,123 14,036 Total deductions 1,889 2,330 Total net capital resources 41,768 34,161 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 277 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts p Segmental analysis Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2007 m m m m m m Total income 13,310 3,600 2,209 3,302 1,102 23,523 Insurance claims and benefits 152 226 114 492 Total income net of insurance claims 13,158 3,374 2,209 3,188 1,102 23,031 Percentage of total income net of insurance claims % 57% 15% 9% 14% 5% 100% Total assets by location of asset 429,665 285,719 301,973 56,117 154,109 1,227,583 Percentage of total assets % 35% 23% 25% 4% 13% 100% a Capital expenditure by location of asset 894 303 789 225 88 2,299 Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2006 m m m m m m Total income 12,503 3,063 2,840 2,897 928 22,231 Insurance claims and benefits 288 181 106 575 Total income net of insurance claims 12,215 2,882 2,840 2,791 928 21,656 Percentage of total income net of insurance claims % 57% 13% 13% 13% 4% 100% Total assets by location of asset 406,044 203,929 229,779 44,696 112,055 996,503 Percentage of total assets % 41% 20% 23% 5% 11% 100% a Capital expenditure by location of asset 569 62 565 136 39 1,371 Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
