Glossary Admitted carrier Deferred acquisition costs DAC An insurance company authorised to do business in the US.
An Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance policies agreement is entered into which stipulates the terms and conditions e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs which are under which a business must conduct within a state in the US.
capitalised and amortised over the term of the contracts.
Aggregates aggregations Earnings per share EPS Basic Diluted Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from Ratio, in pence, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted Aggregate excess of loss earnings per share the number of shares and profit or loss for the The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for an year is adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified share options granted to employees.
Excess per risk reinsurance A. M. Best A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information agency limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of loss whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing in excess of a specified retention with respect of each risk involved in the financial strength of insurance-related organisations, following a each loss.
rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating performance and business prole.
Beazley Expense ratio Group plc obtained an A rating, while Beazley Insurance Company, Ratio, in percent, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance Inc. received a rating of A. contracts and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
Binding authority Facultative reinsurance A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a coverholder A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately negotiated under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
insurance for the account of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms and conditions.
Gross premiums written Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied Capacity on the premium, including any brokerage and commission deducted This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a by intermediaries.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the marketplace in general.
Hard market An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, with restrictive Catastrophe reinsurance terms and conditions offered by insurers.
A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to specified limits, indemnifies the reinsured company for the amount of loss in excess Horizontal limits of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
resulting from a catastrophic event or series of events.
Incurred but not reported IBNR Claims These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
event although no claims have been reported so far.
Claims ratio International accounting standards IAS International financial Ratio, in percent, of net insurance claims to net earned premiums.
reporting standards IFRS Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of achieving Combined ratio internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the Ratio, in percent, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as International acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to net Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Until existing standards are earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the renamed, they continue to be referred to as International Accounting claims ratio.
Coverholder managing general agent International accounting standards board IASB A rm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a An international panel of accounting experts responsible for developing managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to enter into IAS IFRS.
contracts of insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
com About us Based in London since 1986 and oated on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Beazley BEZ.
L is the parent company of a global insurance and reinsurance business operating through Lead underwriter Retention limits The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures by the Lloyds syndicates 2623 and 623 in the UK and Beazley Insurance of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
Company, Inc. a US-admitted carrier in all 50 states.
Beazley than one syndicate and who generally has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising under such a contract.
Retrocessional reinsurance is a market leader in many of its chosen lines of business, which The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
Line include professional indemnity, marine, reinsurance, commercial The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is accepted by Return on equity ROE an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
Ratio, in percent, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after property and personal lines.
tax by the average total equity.
Lloyds Lloyds is the worlds leading specialist insurance market and expects Risk to have the capacity to write 16.1bn of business in 2007.
It occupies This term may variously refer to: sixth place in terms of global reinsurance premium income, and is the a The possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: second largest surplus lines insurer in the US.
In 2007, 66 syndicates b The subject-matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or are underwriting insurance at Lloyds, covering all classes of business c An insured peril.
from more than 200 countries and territories worldwide.
Short tail Managed syndicate A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of The combination of syndicates 2623 and 623 through which the the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Property insurance is group underwrites insurance business.
an example of short tail business.
About Specialty lines We underwrite primary and About Reinsurance Our reinsurance clients renew excess business from North America, Europe and with us year after year because we are specialists at Managing agent Soft market around the world.
We operate in a at organisational handling challenging exposures.
Our underwriters are A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the underwriting of An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms and structure where underwriters take ownership and empowered decision makers who employ the most a syndicate.
conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
They are encouraged to up-to-date software and analytical tools to assist risk focus their efforts on understanding the needs and assessment.
We are leaders in our eld, and put time Managing general agent MGA Stamp capacity aspirations of their clients.
We hire the very best and resources into thinking ahead and developing An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf of an insurer.
The volume of business measured in gross written premiums net people who are active risk-takers.
They understand compelling products that deliver tangible benets.
The of acquisition costs underwritten by the group through its managed Medium tail syndicates at Lloyds of London.
the big picture as well as the detail, so they can make reinsurance division also benets from being part of A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after major decisions for clients without referral.
the larger Beazley Group which provides the strength the period of insurance has expired.
Surplus lines insurer and security our clients can rely on.
About Property With an underwriting presence in An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
London, the US and Singapore: our clients range from About Marine Marine insurance is a challenging Net assets per share Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of Ratio, in pence, calculated by dividing the net assets total equity by the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
We build business often involving high-risk ventures in volatile the number of shares issued.
long-term and mutually rewarding relationships with industries.
Were open-minded and will therefore Total shareholder return TSR our clients.
We shape ourselves around clients and consider a wide range of marine risks.
In 2006 global Net premiums written The increase in the share price plus the value of any dividends paid what they need from an insurance policy.
The service trade rose to US$11.76 trillion and is growing.
Our Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less outward and proposed during the year.
is totally integrated on every level from imaginative enthusiastic team has a wealth of experience and reinsurance premiums written.
and entrepreneurial underwriters, to specialist claims has established many rewarding relationships with all Treaty reinsurance and policy wordings teams, supported by a rock sorts of enterprises, from global corporations to family Provision for outstanding claims A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer and solid, in-house technical team.
Our underwriters are rms, because we know the risks their businesses Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the balance to accept all risks of certain size within a dened class.
empowered to make rapid decisions and give straight are exposed to inside out.
Whether it is trading sheet date but have either not yet been reported or not yet been answers, so they get the policy they need.
And when goods internationally or being involved in the actual fully settled.
Unearned premiums reserve The portion of premium income in the business year that is attributable it comes to making a claim?
We want to pay it transportation of those goods, we deliver the products Rate to periods after the balance sheet date is accounted for as unearned not argue about it.
they need to meet the risks they face every minute of The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured or limit premiums in the underwriting provisions.
We help insure 10% of the worlds oceanof indemnity.
going tonnage and cover 35% of the top 200 oil and gas companies.
Reinsurance to close RITC A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the Further information about us is available at responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of www.
com account and any year of account closed into that year plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of account into an open year of account in return for a premium.
Contents 1 Financial highlights 22 Financial review 40 Statement of corporate 61 Balance sheet 2 Key performance indicators i Group performance governance 62 Statement of changes 3 Our strategy ii Balance sheet management 44 Directors remuneration in equity 4 Beazley timeline iii Capital position report 63 Cash ow statement 6 Chairmans statement 31 Investor relations 55 Directors report 64 Notes to the financial 8 Business review 32 Risk management 58 Statement of directors statements 12 Performance by division 36 Corporate and social responsibilities 104 Glossary i Specialty lines responsibility 59 Audit opinion ii Property 38 Board of directors 60 Consolidated income iii Reinsurance statement iv Marine Designed and produced by Loewy Group 44 0 20 7798 2000 Beazley Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Beazley Group plc Beazley Group plc Plantation Place South 60 Great Tower Street London EC3R 5AD Phone 44 0 20 7667 0623 Annual Fax 44 0 20 7674 7100 www.
com report and Company number: 4082477 accounts 2007
