BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 51 Directors Responsibility Statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction Other disclosures with the report of the independent auditors, is made with a view Pages 28 to 30 inclusive contain the Directors Report and pages 40 to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities to 45 inclusive contain the Remuneration Report, both of which have of the Directors and the auditors in relation to the Annual Report been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance and the Financial Statements contained within.
upon applicable English Company Law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports shall be subject to the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
and ensuring it gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the results for The statement from the Chairman and the Chief Executive on pages the year in accordance with applicable UK law, United Kingdom 6 to 7 and 8 to 9 respectively and the Business Review on pages 11 to Accounting Standards and those International Financial Reporting 24, which form part of the Directors Report, contain certain forwardStandards IFRS adopted by the EU.
The Directors have responsibility looking statements with respect to the financial condition, and results for ensuring that the Group keeps proper accounting records of, operations and businesses of the Group.
These statements and which enable them to ensure the Financial Statements comply forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for taking depend on circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
Forward-looking statements and The Directors remain satisfied that the Group has adequate resources forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information to continue in business and, accordingly, that the Financial Statements known to them at the date of this report.
The Directors do not make should be drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, appropriate any undertaking to update or revise any forward looking statements, accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
and prudent judgements and estimates have been used in the Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
preparation of these Financial Statements and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for The Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007 are included which the Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed in the Annual Report 2007, which is published in hard copy form and with the auditors.
The Directors, having prepared the Financial made available on the Groups website.
The Directors are responsible Statements, have requested the auditors to take whatever steps for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the Groups and to undertake whatever inspections they consider appropriate website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation for the purpose of giving their report.
and dissemination of Financial Statements.
It should be noted that information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries, Disclosure of information to auditors some of which have different legal requirements relating to the Each Director has responsibility for ensuring that, as far as he is preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements.
The work aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these are unaware, and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any have taken to make himself aware of any relevant audit information changes that have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were that is, relevant to the preparation of the auditors reports and to initially presented on the website.
establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance By Order of the Board with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
James Brace Company Secretary 24 September 2007 BlueBay Asset Management plc 52 Annual Report 2007
