Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 40 40 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing In preparing each of the Group and Company Under applicable law and regulations, the the Annual Report and the Group and financial statements, the Directors are Directors are also responsible for preparing a Company financial statements in accordance required to: Directors Report, Directors Remuneration with applicable law and regulations.
select suitable accounting policies and then Report and Corporate Governance Statement apply them consistently: that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to make judgments and estimates that are prepare Group and Company financial reasonable and prudent: The Directors are responsible for the statements for each financial year.
Under that state whether they have been prepared maintenance and integrity of the corporate law they are required to prepare the Group in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by and financial information included on the financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the EU: and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK as adopted by the EU, and applicable law and prepare the financial statements on governing the preparation and dissemination have elected to prepare the Company the going concern basis, unless it is of financial statements may differ from financial statements on the same basis.
inappropriate to presume that the Group legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the Company will continue in business.
The Group and Company financial statements Steven Crawshaw are required by law and IFRS, as adopted by The Directors are responsible for keeping Group Chief Executive the EU, to present fairly the financial position proper accounting records that disclose with 12 February 2008 of the Group and the Company and the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial performance for that period: The Companies position of the Company and enable them to Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial ensure that its financial statements comply statements that references in the relevant with the Companies Act 1985.
They have part of that Act to financial statements giving general responsibility for taking such steps as a true and fair view are references to their are reasonably open to them to safeguard the achieving a fair presentation.
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
B19557 R&A 2007 BACK 25 2 08 16:22 Page 41 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 41 The accounts 42 Independent Auditors report 43 Consolidated income statement 44 Balance sheets 45 Statements of recognised income and expense 46 Cash flow statements 47 Notes to the financial statements Page Note Page Note 47 1.
Loans and advances to banks 71 29.
Loans and advances to customers 72 30.
Reconciliation of changes in equity 55 11.
Events after the Balance Sheet date 62 16.
