The accounts B19557 R&A 2007 BACK 26 2 08 10:34 Page 91 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 91 Shareholder Information Financial calendar 2008 our www.
Those To cast your AGM vote online log on to 13 Feb Results for 2007 announced shareholders in the BBNA who do not currently www.
com voting uk and 22 Apr Annual General Meeting receive these documents can make request to complete the following steps: 29 Jul Interim results for 2008 announced do so at anytime by calling the Registrar on Choose the Bradford & Bingley meeting 0870 703 0003.
The Summary Financial You will need to enter your SRN and Ordinary dividend Statement is available in large print, Braille and the unique PIN number printed on your 19 Mar Ex-dividend date audio tape format.
To request a copy call the voting form 25 Mar Record date Shareholder Helpline on 0844 472 6003.
Enter your choices on screen.
11 Apr DRIP election date 02 May Payment of final dividend for 2007 ShareGift Scheme To register your e-mail address so that future 20 Aug Ex-dividend date Many investors find themselves owning shareholder information can be made available 22 Aug Record date parcels of shares in quantities so small that it to you electronically log on to www.
co. uk 12 Sep DRIP election date would cost more to sell them than they are and complete the following steps: 03 Oct Payment of interim dividend for 2008 worth.
They may therefore be too small to do Click on Shareholder e-Services anything with, but may still bring a tax liability Enter the required information and click on Interest payments on any dividends paid and unwanted annual submit.
You will need your SRN located on 13% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds reports and other documents.
your voting form or most recent tax voucher 7 Apr Payment of interest Click on submit again and register online.
7 Oct Payment of interest Bradford & Bingley plc supports ShareGift, which is administered by The Orr Mackintosh Electronic proxy appointment through CREST 11.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds Foundation registered charity number In addition to providing electronic voting and 20 Jan Payment of interest 1052668.
Any shares that you donate to proxy appointment via our Registrars website, 20 Jul Payment of interest ShareGift will be transferred into the name the Company is supporting the CREST electronic of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, who will proxy appointment service.
Please see the Internet aggregate them, sell them when possible notes on the proxy voting form for details of Information about the Group can be found on and donate the proceeds to a growing list how to use this service.
Since ShareGift was started in 1996 millions of pounds have been given Advisers Share price to hundreds of charities.
Auditor You are able to keep track of the share price KPMG Audit Plc through the financial press, or by visiting our If you would like to participate in the ShareGift 1 The Embankment Group website at www.
co. uk or by calling scheme, or receive more information about the Neville Street the Shareholder Helpline on 0844 472 6003. scheme, they can be contacted by visiting their Leeds website at www.
co. uk, or by calling LS1 4DW Share dealing service 020 7930 3737, or by writing to ShareGift, 17 To buy or sell Bradford & Bingley shares call Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
This service is provided by Goldman Sachs International our Registrar, Computershare and is available Dividend Payment Methods Peterborough Court to all our shareholders.
Please have your You can choose one of the following methods: 133 Fleet Street Securityholder Reference Number SRN ready elect to use your whole cash dividend to London when making your call.
You will find this on buy additional Bradford & Bingley shares EC4A 2BB your voting form or your dividend documents.
under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan: or have cash dividends paid direct to a bank Registrar An internet share dealing service has also or building society account: or Computershare Investor Services PLC been established with our Registrar.
Log on have cash dividends paid in the form P O Box 1913 to www.
com dealing uk and of a cheque The Pavilions have your SRN ready.
A bank debit card will be Bridgwater Road required if you wish to purchase shares.
The Company now offers a Dividend Bristol Reinvestment Plan that allows you to use your BS99 2PR For shareholders in the Bradford & Bingley whole cash dividend to buy additional shares in Nominee Account BBNA a postal share a cost-effective way.
Computershare Investor Solicitor dealing service is also available.
Please Services PLC run the scheme and you can find Herbert Smith contact the Registrar for details.
further information and also join the Plan on the Exchange House website www.
com investors uk Primrose Street Useful contacts London For information about the Annual General You can elect to receive your dividends directly EC2A 2HS Meeting AGM, shareholdings, dividends into a bank or building society account.
You and changes to personal details please will receive one consolidated tax voucher each Stockbrokers contact the Registrar: Computershare Investor year.
This will contain the taxation details of all Citigroup Global Markets Limited Services PLC, PO Box 1913, dividends paid in that particular tax year.
If you Canada Square The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 2PR wish to have them credited to a bank or building Canary Wharf Telephone: 0844 472 6003. society account, you will receive a form with the London dividend payment enabling you to do this.
E14 5LB Institutional investors may wish to contact Investor Relations by calling 01274 806341.
Otherwise, dividends will be paid to you by UBS cheque to the address held by the Registrar.
1 Finsbury Avenue The Summary Financial Statement is posted to London shareholders who have not requested a full Electronic communications EC2M 2PP version of the Annual Report & Accounts and The Company has set up a facility for to those members of the BBNA who have shareholders to take advantage of electronic requested to receive it, together with the AGM communications.
You can vote online and documents and a voting form.
A full version of receive notification of shareholder the Annual Report & Accounts is available on documents electronically.
