CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Basis of preparation of the financial statements share of the results of jointly controlled entities joint ventures and These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in associates using the equity method of accounting.
accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
For The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the BT there are no differences between IFRSs as adopted for use in year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the EU and full IFRS as published by the IASB.
The financial the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, statements have been prepared under the historical cost adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, convention, modied for the revaluation of certain financial assets associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used and liabilities at fair value.
in line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, Where there are significant differences to US GAAP, these have balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially The policies set out below have been consistently applied to all recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of years presented with the exception of those relating to financial the groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes the instruments under IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and groups share of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and the value of individual assets.
The income statement reects the Measurement, which have been applied with effect from 1 April groups share of the results of operations after tax of the associate 2005. or joint venture.
Certain comparative balance sheet amounts for the 2006 The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are financial year have been reclassied to conform with the detailed on page 105. presentation adopted in the 2007 financial year.
These include iii Revenue 305 million which has been reclassied from prepayments to non current assets at 31 March 2006 in respect of costs relating to the Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or initial set up, transition or transformation phase of long term receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of network IT services contracts.
In addition 267 million has been discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services reclassied from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets and the sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that at 31 March 2006 in respect of IT software application assets and the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the 993 million has been reclassied between intercompany interest group and the amount of revenue and the associated costs can be received and decrease in trade and other receivables within the measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a cash ow statement.
transaction it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Revenue arising from separable installation and connection requires the use of accounting estimates.
It also requires services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is the groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree recognised evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, the groups network.
are disclosed below in Critical accounting estimates and key Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for judgements.
access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising identies trading results before significant one-off or unusual items from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other termed specic items, a non GAAP measure.
This is consistent telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit with the way that financial performance is measured by across the groups network.
management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is trading results of the group.
The directors believe that the recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to an are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
understanding of the groups financial performance as specic items are significant one-off or unusual in nature and have little Revenue from long term contractual arrangements is recognised predictive value.
Furthermore, the group consider a columnar based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of presentation to be appropriate as it improves the clarity of the completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to presentation and is consistent with the way that financial the nature of the contract.
For long term services contracts revenue performance is measured and reported to the directors.
Specic is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the contract.
items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, other companies.
Items which have been considered significant revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output one-off or unusual in nature include disposals of businesses and or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts including contracts investments, business restructuring, asset impairment charges and to design and build software solutions, revenue is recognised by property rationalisation programmes.
The directors intend to follow reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the such a presentation on a consistent basis in the future.
Specic proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 4. costs or other measures of completion such as contract milestone Accounting policies in respect of the parent company British customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, Telecommunications plc, are set out on pages 89 to 92.
These are revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
in accordance with UK GAAP.
Costs related to delivering services under long term contractual arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs ii Basis of consolidation incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements the contract are deferred and recorded within non current assets.
of British Telecommunications plc the company and entities These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a controlled by the company its subsidiaries and incorporate its straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 29 appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic a net investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange differences contracts relate to future activity, will generate future economic are initially recognised in equity.
benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable of foreign undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is liabilities denominated in foreign currency, the cumulative recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and translation difference associated with the undertaking in the can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full disposal.
contract life loss is immediately recognised.
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more vi Business combinations separate elements that have value to a customer on a standalone The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition of subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
On basis, revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated transition to IFRSs, the group elected not to apply IFRS 3 between the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before 1 April 2004. and the appropriate revenue recognition criteria applied to each Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries which occurred element as described above.
between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004 is therefore included in the balance sheet at original cost, less accumulated amortisation to iv Leases the date of transition and any provisions for impairment.
Goodwill The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary which occurred prior to 1 lease, is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires January 1998 was written off directly to retained earnings.
an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to the dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the identiable net assets acquired.
The excess of the cost of the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups share of finance leases.
the identiable net assets acquired, the difference is recognised Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the directly in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease gain or loss on disposal includes the carrying amount of goodwill payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations relating to the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill previously written off to relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of retained earnings is not recycled to the income statement on future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently disposal of the related subsidiary.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess vii Intangible assets of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an economic life.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern statement immediately.
cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
v Foreign currencies Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets economic environment in which the entity operates the functional including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Telecommunication licences transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication settlement of such transactions and from the translation of activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at at cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use period end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement to the end of the licence period.
in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Where monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation and are designated as hedges of 30 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Accounting policies Brands, customer lists and customer relationships The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are Land and buildings recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are Freehold buildings 40 years used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be lease or 40 years, generated by the acquired businesses.
whichever is the shorter Network infrastructure and equipment Computer software Transmission equipment: Computer software comprises computer software purchased from Duct 40 years third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Cable 3 to 25 years Computer software purchased from third parties is initially recorded Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years at cost.
Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years Payphones, other network equipment 2 to 20 years Subscriber acquisition costs Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they Other meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the customer life or Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years contractual period.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of Estimated useful economic lives the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are categories of intangible assets are as follows: recognised prospectively.
Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years x Asset impairment non-financial assets Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and Computer software 2 to 5 years equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the viii Research and development carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to period in which it is incurred.
the higher of the net present value of expected future cash ows Development expenditure, including the cost of internally value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair developed software, is recognised in the income statement in the value less cost to sell.
period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic Goodwill and intangible xed assets with indefinite useful lives benets will ow to the group from the asset being developed, the are tested for impairment at least annually.
cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated developed is ready for use.
recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses Research and development costs include direct labour, are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata contractors charges, materials and directly attributable overheads.
basis against intangible and other assets.
Where an impairment loss is recognised against an asset it may ix Property, plant and equipment be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment loss was recognised, except in respect of impairment of impairment.
goodwill which may not be reversed in any circumstances.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of xi Inventory disposal is recorded in the income statement.
Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or rental and consumable items.
Cost Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for are direct labour, contractors charges, materials, payments on obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
account, and directly attributable overheads.
xii Termination benets Depreciation Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the subject to depreciation.
xiii Post retirement benets The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is administered by an independent trustee for the majority of its employees.
Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 31 The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to plans is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially their service to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its enacted by the balance sheet date.
present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on The discount rate used is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The net reverse in the foreseeable future.
obligation recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited The income statement charge is allocated between an operating directly in equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
charge and a net finance charge.
The operating charge reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the working lives of xvi Advertising and marketing the employees.
The net finance charge reects the unwinding of The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset by the activities are expensed within other operating costs as incurred.
expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
xvii Dividends Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they which they occur and are presented in the statement of recognised are declared and approved by the company in general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried out by an independent actuary as determined by the trustees at xviii Provisions intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on the advice constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely of the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these trustee than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
discounted to present value where the effect is material.
The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes and the income statement is charged with the contributions xix Financial instruments from 1 April 2005 payable.
The following are the key accounting policies used from 1 April 2005 onwards to reect the adoption of IAS 32, Financial xiv Share based payments Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial The ultimate parent, BT Group plc, has a number of employee share Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
schemes and share option and award plans under which it makes equity settled share based payments to certain employees of the Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and financial group.
The fair value of options and awards granted is recognised liabilities as an employee expense after taking into account the groups best Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the estimate of the number of awards expected to vest allowing for group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the non market and service conditions.
Fair value is measured at the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no date of grant and is spread over the vesting period of the award.
longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership The fair value of options and awards granted is measured using or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when either the Binomial or Monte Carlo model, whichever is most the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial appropriate to the award.
Any proceeds received are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
assets, the group recognises the financial assets on the settlement The group has applied IFRS 2, Share based payment date, which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the retrospectively to all options and awards granted after 7 November group.
2002 and not fully vested at 1 January 2005.
Financial assets xv Taxation Financial assets at fair value through income statement Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the for the purpose of selling in the short term held for trading or if tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted so designated by management.
Financial assets held in this by the balance sheet date.
category are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect value, with changes in value recognised in the income statement in of temporary differences between the carrying amount of the the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any Loans and receivables remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with xed of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the other than: foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary those that the group intends to sell immediately or in the short difference can be utilised.
term, which are classied as held for trading: 32 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Accounting policies those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, classied as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income which are classied as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus If there is objective evidence of an impairment loss on an transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a derivative recognised in the income statement, in the line which most asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount Available-for-sale financial assets and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
either specically designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are Financial liabilities carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for Trade and other payables changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially and impairment losses which are recognised in the income recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced statement are recognised in equity until the financial asset is amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using one derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously effective interest method.
recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or Loans and other borrowings transaction.
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other Trade and other receivables borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful or borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost Provisions are made specically where there is objective using the effective interest method and if included in a fair value evidence of a dispute or an inability to pay.
An additional provision hedge relationship are revalued to reect the fair value movements is made based on an analysis of balances by age, previous losses on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
experienced and general economic conditions.
The resultant amortisation of fair value movements are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current Financial guarantees balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy of three months or less.
relating to provisions and the amount initially determined less, For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts Derivative financial instruments are included within loans and other borrowings in current liabilities The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments Impairment of financial assets for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is and initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future the income statement in net finance income.
However, where cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
related objectively to an event after the impairment was recognised Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or and is reversed to the extent the carrying value of the asset does current liabilities where they are not designated in a hedging not exceed its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
relationship or have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and 12 months and are designated in a hedge relationship, they are amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the classied within either non current assets or non current liabilities.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the and host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 33 value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the income revokes designation of the hedge relationship.
The cumulative gain statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature or loss is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit of the item or transaction.
on disposal when the net investment in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge the cumulative gain or loss Hedge accounting adjustment associated with the hedged risk is amortised to the Cash ow hedge income statement using the effective interest method over the When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the remaining term of the hedged item.
variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the xx Financial instruments to 31 March 2005 derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The accounting policies adopted in respect of financial instruments For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the in periods up to, and including 31 March 2005, are set out below.
associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and Financial assets were held at the lower of cost and net realisable recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same value in accordance with UK GAAP.
Debt instruments are stated at period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the the amount of net proceeds adjusted to amortise any discount over income statement.
For highly probable transactions, when the transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or Criteria to qualify for hedge accounting non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is The group considers its derivative financial instruments to be removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying hedges when certain criteria are met.
For foreign currency derivatives, the instrument must be related to actual foreign amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results currency assets or liabilities or a probable commitment whose in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then characteristics have been identied.
It must involve the same the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also equity are reclassied into the income statement in the same period reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed groups operations.
For interest rate derivatives, the instrument affects the income statement.
must be related to assets or liabilities or a probable commitment, Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised such as a future bond issue, and must also change the interest rate asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income or the nature of the interest rate by converting a xed rate to a statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on variable rate or vice versa.
highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments Interest differentials, under interest rate swap agreements used to Fair value hedge vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of borrowings are xed, are recognised by adjustment of net finance the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or income.
unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the The forward exchange contracts used to change the currency derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in mix of net debt are revalued to balance sheet rates with net the same line in the income statement, together with any changes unrealised gains and losses being included in current and nonin fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to current derivative financial instruments.
The difference between the hedged risk.
spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of net finance income over the term of the contract.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation The forward exchange contracts hedging transaction exposures Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency are revalued at the prevailing forward rate on the balance sheet date with net unrealised gains and losses being shown as current instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the and non current derivative financial instruments.
extent the hedges are deemed effective.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised Critical accounting estimates and key judgements in net finance income.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also Discontinuance of hedge accounting requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
asset or liability remains or highly probable transaction is still The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are expected to occur.
Under a cash ow hedge the cumulative gain or described below.
loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged Interconnect income and payments to other telecommunications transaction is no longer expected to take place or the underlying operators hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative In certain instances BT relies on other operators to measure the unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used immediately in the income statement.
Under a hedge of a net in these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from investment the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity when the or payments we need to make to these other operators.
The prices hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the at which these services are charged are often regulated and are hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group 34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Accounting policies subject to retrospective adjustment and estimates are used in estimates for all these factors in determining the pension costs and assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement regarding future Providing for doubtful debts expectations.
BT provide services to around 18 million individuals and businesses, mainly on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will Deferred tax not be paid through the default of a small number of our Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in customers.
Estimates, based on our historical experience are used in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets These estimates include such factors as the current state of the should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and economy and particular industry issues.
level of future taxable income.
Goodwill Income tax The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws require the use of estimates, including managements expectations and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the of future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we each cash generating unit.
recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve Useful lives for property, plant and equipment complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long-lived with cables final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different and switching equipment operating for over ten years and from the estimates reected in the financial statements.
underground ducts being used for decades.
The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each Determination of fair values type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light financial instruments and certain elements of loans and borrowings, of technological change, network investment plans including the are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair groups 21CN transformation programme, prospective economic value reected in the income statement.
Fair values are estimated utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes by reference in part to published price quotations and in part by to service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2006 in using valuation techniques.
aggregate had no significant impact on the results for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2007 Property arrangements During the year the following standards which are relevant to the As part of the property rationalisation programme we have groups operations became effective and were adopted: identied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to sub-let this space, it is recognised that this may not s Amendment to IAS 21, Net Investment in a Foreign be possible immediately in the current economic environment.
Operation Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant possession and any s Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee shortfall arising from the sub lease rental income being lower than Contracts the lease costs being borne by BT.
Any such cost or shortfall has s Amendment to IAS 39, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of been recognised as a provision.
Forecast Intragroup Transactions s Amendment to IAS 39, The Fair Value Option Long term customer contracts s IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a Long term customer contracts can extend over a number of lease financial years.
During the contractual period, revenue, costs and s IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment each contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is The adoption of these standards has not had a significant impact on recognised immediately.
The group performs ongoing profitability the groups financial statements in the year.
reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include transaction Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to volumes, or other inputs, for which we get paid, future staff and published standards not yet effective third party costs and anticipated cost productivity, savings and Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing efficiencies.
standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007 or later Pension obligations periods, but which the group has not early adopted.
The new BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, to standards which are relevant to the groups operations are as pay pension benets to approximately 350,000 people over more follows: than 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective from 1 April of the members, the salary progression of our current employees, 2007 and amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time Statements Capital Disclosures effective from 1 April 2007 before they are used to fund the pension payments and the rate at IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures of qualitative and quantitative which the future pension payments are discounted.
We use information about exposure to risks arising from financial Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 35 instruments including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
Management is currently assessing the disclosure impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 on the groups financial statements.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 April 2009 IFRS 8 requires the identication of operating segments based on internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker and extends the scope and disclosure requirements of IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
The group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 8 on its segmental analysis disclosure.
Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective from 1 April 2009 The amendment to IAS 23 eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as incurred.
As a result, the group will be required to capitalise such borrowing costs as part of the cost of that asset.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the amendment on the results and net assets of the group.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective from 1 April 2007 IFRIC 8 claries that transactions within the scope of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment include those in which the entity cannot specically identify some or all of the goods and services received.
The group has assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective from 1 April 2007 IFRIC 9 claries that an entity should assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative when the entity first becomes a party to the contract.
Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the contract terms, in which case it is required.
IFRIC 10, Financial Reporting and Impairment effective from 1 April 2007 IFRIC 10 states that impairment losses recognised in interim financial statements should not be reversed in subsequent interim or full year financial statements.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective from 1 April 2007 IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share based arrangements involving group entities should be accounted for as cash settled or equity settled.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective from 1 April 2008 IFRIC 12 addresses the accounting by operators of public-private service concession arrangements.
36 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Accounting policies GROUP INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 March 2007 Before specic Specic a items items Total For the year ended 31 March 2007 Notes m m m Revenue 1 20,223 20,223 Other operating income 2 236 3 233 Operating costs 3 17,739 169 17,908 Operating profit 1 2,720 172 2,548 Finance expense 5 2,618 2,618 Finance income 5 3,365 139 3,504 Net finance income 747 139 886 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 14 15 15 profit on disposal of associate 22 22 profit before taxation 3,482 11 3,471 Taxation 6 907 979 72 profit for the year 2,575 968 3,543 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 2,573 968 3,541 Minority interests 21 2 2 Before specic Specic a items items Total For the year ended 31 March 2006 Notes m m m Revenue 1 19,514 19,514 Other operating income 2 227 227 Operating costs 3 17,100 138 17,238 Operating profit 1 2,641 138 2,503 Finance expense 5 2,746 2,746 Finance income 5 3,261 3,261 Net finance income 515 515 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 14 16 16 profit on disposal of joint venture 1 1 profit before taxation 3,172 137 3,035 Taxation 6 833 41 792 profit for the year 2,339 96 2,243 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 2,338 96 2,242 Minority interests 21 1 1 Before specic Specic a items items Total For the year ended 31 March 2005 Notes m m m Revenue 1 18,429 18,429 Other operating income 2 193 358 551 Operating costs 3 15,921 59 15,980 Operating profit 1 2,701 299 3,000 Finance expense 5 2,777 2,777 Finance income 5 3,145 3,145 Net finance income 368 368 Share of post tax loss of associates and joint ventures 14 25 39 profit before taxation 3,055 274 3,329 Taxation 6 833 16 817 profit for the year 2,222 290 2,512 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 2,223 290 2,513 Minority interests 21 1 1 a For a definition of specific items, see accounting policies.
An analysis of specific items is provided in note 4.
Dividends paid in the year were 2,330 million 2006: 2,553 million, 2005: 1,028 million, as shown in note 7.
Group income statement British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 37 GROUP STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE For the year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 2005 Notes m m m profit for the year 3,543 2,243 2,512 Actuarial gains relating to retirement benefit obligations 28 1,409 2,122 294 Exchange differences: on translation of foreign operations 158 40 19 fair value loss on net investment hedges 20 reclassied and reported in net profit 9 Fair value movements on available-for-sale assets: fair value gains 932 reclassied and reported in net profit 1 35 Fair value movements on cash ow hedges: fair value losses gains 201 4 reclassied and reported in net profit 364 204 Tax impact of above items 6 486 593 79 Net gains recognised directly in equity 936 1,337 234 Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,479 3,580 2,746 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 4,479 3,579 2,747 Minority interests 1 1 4,479 3,580 2,746 The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39, with effect from 1 April 2005.
The adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 resulted in a decrease in equity at 1 April 2005 of 204 million, net of deferred tax, of which nil was attributable to minority interests.
A reconciliation of the changes in other reserves and retained earnings is given in note 24.
38 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Group statement of recognised income and expense GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT For the year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 2005 Notes m m m Cash ow from operating activities profit before taxation 3,471 3,035 3,329 Depreciation and amortisation 2,920 2,884 2,844 profit loss on sale of associates and non current asset investments 19 1 358 Net finance income 886 515 368 Other non cash charges 50 87 2 Share of profits losses of associates and joint ventures 15 16 39 Increase in inventories 6 13 12 Decrease in trade and other receivables 487 1,354 206 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 165 174 68 Decrease increase in provisions and other liabilities 217 189 151 Cash generated from operations 5,620 7,180 5,901 Income taxes paid 411 390 332 Income tax repayment for prior years 376 Net cash inow from operating activities 5,585 6,790 5,569 Cash ow from investing activities Interest received 498 185 374 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 6 12 Proceeds on disposal of group undertakings 27 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 89 66 111 Proceeds on disposal of associates and joint ventures 27 35 Proceeds on disposal of non current financial assets 4 1 539 Proceeds on disposal of current financial assets 3,687 5,964 3,752 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 284 165 426 Purchases of property, plant and equipment and computer software 3,298 2,940 3,056 Investment in associates and joint ventures 7 2 27 Purchases of non current financial assets 7 2 2 Purchases of current financial assets 3,426 2,743 3,044 Net cash outow inow from investing activities 2,684 365 1,742 Cash ows from nancing activities Equity dividends paid 2,330 2,553 1,028 Dividends paid to minority interests 3 Interest paid 797 1,086 1,260 Repayments of borrowings 809 4,148 1,023 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 276 284 275 New bank loans raised 11 1,022 5 Intragroup funding 279 Net proceeds on issue of commercial paper 309 464 Repurchase of ordinary shares by subsidiary 2 Net cash used in nancing activities 3,618 6,585 3,581 Effect of exchange rate changes in cash and cash equivalents 37 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 754 570 246 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 1,761 1,191 945 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 8 1,007 1,761 1,191 Group cash ow statement British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 39 GROUP BALANCE SHEET As at 31 March 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Non current assets Intangible assets 11 2,584 1,908 Property, plant and equipment 12 14,997 15,222 Derivative financial instruments 17 25 19 Investments 13 246 397 Associates and joint ventures 14 67 48 Trade and other receivables 15 523 305 Deferred tax assets 20 117 764 18,559 18,663 Current assets Inventories 133 124 Trade and other receivables 15 22,815 22,708 Current tax receivable 504 Derivative financial instruments 17 27 69 Investments 13 3 364 Cash and cash equivalents 8 1,058 1,942 24,540 25,207 Current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 16 2,493 1,940 Derivative financial instruments 17 318 332 Trade and other payables 18 6,976 7,229 Current tax liabilities 582 606 Provisions 19 100 70 10,469 10,177 Total assets less current liabilities 32,630 33,693 Non current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 16 6,387 7,995 Derivative financial instruments 17 992 820 Other payables 18 590 485 Deferred tax liabilities 20 1,683 1,505 Retirement benefit obligations 28 389 2,547 Provisions 19 225 261 10,266 13,613 Equity Ordinary shares 23 2,172 2,172 Share premium 23 8,000 8,000 Other reserves 24 758 805 Retained earnings 24 11,400 9,051 Total parent shareholders equity 22,330 20,028 Minority interests 21 34 52 Total equity 22 22,364 20,080 32,630 33,693 The consolidated financial statements on pages 29 to 86 and 105 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2007 and were signed on its behalf by Hanif Lalani Director 40 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Group balance sheet NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 March 2007 1.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format business segments The group provides communication services which include networked IT services, local and international telecommunications services and broadband and internet products and services.
The group is organised into four primary business segments: BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
Each of these four lines of businesses have differing risks, rewards and customer proles and hence are the groups primary reporting segments.
The revenue of each business segment is derived as follows: BT Global Services mainly generates its revenue from the provision of networked IT services, outsourcing and system integration work and traditional xed line services to multi-site organisations which include the public sector and major corporates and from the xed network operations of the groups worldwide subsidiaries.
BT Retail derives its revenue from the supply of exchange lines and from the calls made over these lines, the leasing of private circuits and other private services.
It also generates revenue from broadband, mobility, data, internet and multimedia services and from providing managed and packaged communications solutions to consumers and small and medium sized business customers in the UK.
BT Wholesale derives its revenue from providing network services and solutions to communication companies, including xed and mobile network operators and other service providers, and from carrying transit trafc between telecommunications operators.
Openreach derives its revenue from providing equivalent access to the local access network in the UK.
Its primary products are Local Loop Unbundling LLU, Wholesale Line Rental WLR, Wholesale Extension Services WES and Backhaul Extension Service BES.
These equivalent products are sold to BT lines of business and other communication providers at the same arms length prices, with the BT lines of business being treated no differently than any other customer with regard to terms and conditions or access to systems and data.
There is extensive trading between BTs lines of business and the line of business profitability is dependent on the transfer price levels.
For regulated products and services those transfer prices are market based whilst for other products and services the transfer prices are agreed between the relevant lines of business on an arms length basis.
These intra-group trading arrangements are subject to periodic review.
Impact of Openreach on segmental disclosure Prior to the 2007 financial year, the group was organised into three primary segments: BT Global Services, BT Retail and BT Wholesale.
On 22 September 2005, BT entered into the Undertakings with Ofcom as a result of which BT was required to establish a new line of business and primary segment called Openreach.
Openreach was launched operationally on 21 January 2006 and is separately reported within BTs results for the first time in the 2007 financial year.
In accordance with the timetable set out in the Undertakings, the group was required to facilitate the reporting of Openreach as a separate line of business by the end of July 2006.
This was achieved and discrete financial information has been presented to senior management on the new business structure with respect to periods from 1 April 2006 onwards.
Both IFRSs and US GAAP require segmental information to be presented on a consistent basis for all years reported.
In the event of a restructuring of business segments, comparative information is therefore required to be restated, unless this is impracticable.
The results for the 2006 financial year have been restated to reect the separate reporting of Openreach as a new business segment.
These restatements also reect the impact of the new internal trading arrangements which have been implemented due to the creation of Openreach.
The results for the 2005 financial year, however, have not been restated as it is impracticable to do so.
Some of the products and services that Openreach now sell were previously provided by BT Wholesale, but in a different form.
As a result of the Undertakings, new equivalent products which did not previously exist had to be created for both internal and external customers.
The changes required to capture the separate reporting of these new products and services were introduced during the 2006 financial year and therefore actual data was available to support the estimates and assumptions required to restate the results for that year.
The equivalent products and services did not exist in the 2005 financial year, and therefore the level of estimation and extrapolation required to restate the results for that year would have been too significant to provide sufciently objective and reliable information.
Furthermore, the fundamental level of reorganisation and restructuring which occurred, combined with the fact that the products previously sold by BT Wholesale no longer exist, mean it is also impracticable to report the results for the current financial year on the old business segment structure.
In order to assist the readers understanding of the year on year performance, additional disclosures have been presented showing the previously reported segmental data for the 2006 and 2005 financial years on the old business segment basis, prior to the creation of Openreach.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 41 1.
Segmental analysis continued Segmental results for the years ended 31 March 2007 and 2006 new segment structure BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2007 m m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 7,467 7,997 4,057 685 17 20,223 Internal revenue 1,639 417 3,527 4,492 10,075 Total revenue 9,106 8,414 7,584 5177 17 10,075 20,223 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2006 restated m m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 7,168 8,102 3,908 318 18 19,514 Internal revenue 1,604 405 3,435 4,824 10,268 Total revenue 8,772 8,507 7,343 5,142 18 10,268 19,514 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2007 m m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 293 674 724 1,177 148 2,720 Specic items 172 172 Segment result 293 674 724 1,177 320 2,548 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 15 profit on disposal of joint venture 22 Net finance income 886 profit before taxation 3,471 Taxation 72 profit for the year 3,543 Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 434 95 735 981 195 2,440 a Intangible assets 261 71 282 127 66 807 695 166 1,017 1,108 261 3,247 Depreciation 494 128 1,102 663 149 2,536 Amortisation 181 43 96 44 20 384 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2006 restated m m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 288 569 759 1,183 158 2,641 Specic items 138 138 Segment result 288 569 759 1,183 296 2,503 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 16 profit on disposal of joint venture 1 Net finance income 515 profit before taxation 3,035 Taxation 792 profit for the year 2,243 Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 466 98 778 965 243 2,550 a Intangible assets 236 55 197 73 31 592 702 153 975 1,038 274 3,142 Depreciation 555 120 1,008 770 181 2,634 Amortisation 83 27 94 30 16 250 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
42 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Segmental analysis continued BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total As at 31 March 2007 m m m m m m Assets Segment assets 6,714 1,831 5,054 8,707 18,784 41,090 Associates and joint ventures 67 67 Unallocated assets 1,942 1,942 Consolidated total assets 6,714 1,831 5,054 8,707 20,793 43,099 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,128 2,351 1,426 598 288 7,791 Unallocated liabilities 12,944 12,944 Consolidated total liabilities 3,128 2,351 1,426 598 13,232 20,735 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total As at 31 March 2006 restated m m m m m m Assets Segment assets 6,253 2,517 4,959 8,200 19,096 41,025 Associates and joint ventures 48 48 Unallocated assets 2,797 2,797 Consolidated total assets 6,253 2,517 4,959 8,200 21,941 43,870 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,795 2,400 911 489 380 7,975 Unallocated liabilities 15,815 15,815 Consolidated total liabilities 3,795 2,400 911 489 16,195 23,790 Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade receivables.
Unallocated assets include deferred and current taxation, investments, derivatives and associates and joint ventures.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and provisions.
Unallocated liabilities include current and deferred taxation, retirement benefit obligations, finance lease liabilities, corporate borrowings and related derivatives.
Segmental results for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 as previously reported excluding Openreach BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 7,151 8,119 4,226 18 19,514 Internal revenue 1,481 333 5,006 6,820 Total revenue 8,632 8,452 9,232 18 6,820 19,514 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2005 m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 6,154 8,430 3,820 25 18,429 Internal revenue 1,334 268 5,275 6,877 Total revenue 7,488 8,698 9,095 25 6,877 18,429 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 43 1.
Segmental analysis continued BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 363 644 1,992 358 2,641 Specic items 138 138 Segment result 363 644 1,992 496 2,503 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 16 profit on disposal of joint venture 1 Net finance income 515 profit before taxation 3,035 Taxation 792 profit for the year 2,243 Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 466 98 1,743 243 2,550 a Intangible assets 236 55 270 31 592 702 153 2,013 274 3,142 Depreciation 555 120 1,778 181 2,634 Amortisation 83 27 124 16 250 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Total Year ended 31 March 2005 m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 411 607 1,950 267 2,701 Specic items 299 299 Segment result 411 607 1,950 32 3,000 Share of post tax loss of associates and joint ventures 39 Net finance income 368 profit before taxation 3,329 Taxation 817 profit for the year 2,512 Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 450 119 1,783 219 2,571 a Intangible assets 155 51 198 36 440 605 170 1,981 255 3,011 Depreciation 513 133 1,831 217 2,694 Amortisation 37 14 83 16 150 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Total As at 31 March 2006 m m m m m Assets Segment assets 6,253 2,517 13,159 19,096 41,025 Associates and joint ventures 48 48 Unallocated assets 2,797 2,797 Consolidated total assets 6,253 2,517 13,159 21,941 43,870 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,776 2,419 1,400 380 7,975 Unallocated liabilities 15,815 15,815 Consolidated total liabilities 3,776 2,419 1,400 16,195 23,790 Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade receivables.
44 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Segmental analysis continued Secondary reporting format geographical segments 2007 2006 2005 m m m Revenue by geographic area UK 17,241 16,901 16,863 Europe, excluding the UK 2,174 1,900 1,306 Americas 711 627 190 Asia Pacic 97 86 70 Total 20,223 19,514 18,429 The creation of Openreach has not impacted the presentation of the geographical segments of the group.
The analysis of revenue by geographical area is on the basis of the country of origin of the customer invoice.
In an analysis of revenue by destination, incoming and transit international calls would be treated differently, but would not lead to a materially different geographical analysis.
Total assets Capital additions 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Total assets and capital additions by geographic area UK 35,958 35,429 2,951 2,872 Europe, excluding the UK 4,078 3,777 203 191 Americas 993 1,704 73 66 Asia Pacic 128 163 20 13 Unallocated assets 1,942 2,797 Total assets 43,099 43,870 3,247 3,142 Total assets and capital additions are allocated to geographical areas based on the location of the asset.
Other operating income 2007 2006 2005 m m m profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 222 Income from repayment works 68 74 64 Other operating income 155 151 107 Other operating income before specic items 236 227 193 Specic items note 4 3 358 Other operating income 233 227 551 3.
Operating costs 2007 2006 2005 m m m Costs by nature Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4,091 3,904 3,639 Social security costs 388 377 319 Pension costs 643 603 540 Share-based payments 93 76 50 Total staff costs 5,215 4,960 4,548 Own work capitalised 718 674 620 Net staff costs 4,497 4,286 3,928 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 2,420 2,500 2,536 Under finance leases 116 134 158 Amortisation of intangible assets 384 250 150 Payments to telecommunications operators 4,162 4,045 3,725 Other operating costs 6,160 5,885 5,424 Total operating costs before specic items 17,739 17,100 15,921 Specic items note 4 169 138 59 Total operating costs 17,908 17,238 15,980 Operating costs include the following: Early leaver costs 147 133 166 a Research and development 692 487 352 Rental costs relating to operating leases 389 413 419 Foreign currency losses 5 12 3 a Research and development expenditure includes amortisation of 314 million 2006: 161 million, 2005: 95 million in respect of internally developed computer software.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 45 4.
Specic items The group separately identies and discloses significant one-off or unusual items termed specic items.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and we believe assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
A denition of specic items is provided in the accounting policies section on page 29.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Other operating income a Net loss on sale of group undertakings 5 b profit on sale of non current asset investments 2 358 3 358 Operating costs c Property rationalisation costs 64 68 59 d Creation of Openreach 30 70 e Write-off of circuit inventory and other working capital balances 65 f Costs associated with settlement of open tax years 10 169 138 59 Finance income f Interest on settlement of open tax years 139 Share of results of associates and joint ventures g Impairment of assets in joint ventures 25 h profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures 22 1 Net specic items charge credit before tax 11 137 274 f Tax credit in respect of settlement of open tax years 938 Tax credit on specic items 41 41 16 Net specic items charge credit after tax 968 96 290 a In the current year the group disposed of some non-core businesses.
The loss on disposal relates primarily to the disposal of the groups satellite broadcast services assets 7 million.
b In the current year, the group disposed of some non-core investments, resulting in a profit of 2 million.
In the 2005 financial year, the group recognised a profit on disposal of 358 million comprising 236 million from the sale of the groups 15.8% interest in Eutelsat SA, 46 million from sale of the 4% interest in Intelsat, 38 million from the sale of the 11.9% interest in Starhub Pte Ltd and other gains of 38 million.
c In the current year 64 million 2006: 68 million, 2005: 59 million of property rationalisation charges wre recognised in relation to the groups provincial office portfolio.
d In the current year a provision of 30 million 2006: 70 million, 2005: nil was recognised for the estimated incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to set up Openreach and meet the requirements of the Undertakings.
e In the current year the group recorded a charge of 65 million as a result of a review of circuit inventory and other working capital balances arising before 31 March 2006. f In the current year, the group agreed settlement of substantially all open UK tax matters relating to the ten tax years up to and including 2004 05 with HM Revenue and Customs.
Specific items therefore include a net credit of 1,067 million, which represents those elements of the tax charges previously recognised that were in excess of the final agreed liability of 938 million: interest income of 139 million on the repayment: and operating costs of 10 million, representing the costs assocated with reaching the agreement.
g In the 2005 financial year the group incurred an impairment charge of 25 million representing its share of a write down of Albacoms assets prior to Albacom becoming a subsidiary.
h In the current year the group disposed of 6% of its equity interest in Tech Mahindra Limited, an associated undertaking.
The resulting profit on disposal was 22 million.
The groups shareholding at 31 March 2007 was 35%.
46 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.
Finance income and finance expense a 2007 2006 2005 m m m Finance expense b Interest on listed bonds, debentures and notes 623 831 963 Interest on finance leases 44 62 68 Interest on ultimate parent company borrowings 14 64 Interest on other borrowings 58 20 19 Unwinding of discount on provisions 3 33 c Net charge on financial instruments in a fair value hedge d Net foreign exchange on items in hedging relationships Fair value movements on derivatives not in a designated hedge relationship 4 8 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,872 1,816 1,720 Total finance expense 2,618 2,746 2,777 a The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 April 2005.
The comparative period has therefore applied the groups previous accounting policies in calculating the recognition and measurement basis for finance expense see accounting policies.
b Includes a net charge of 67 million 2006: 41 million relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
c Includes a net credit of 70 million 2006: net charge of 71 million relating to fair value movements arising on hedged items and a net charge of 70 million 2006: net credit of 71 million relating to fair value movements arising on derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
d Includes a net credit of 420 million 2006: net charge of 330 million relating to foreign exchange movements on hedged loans and borrowings and a net charge of 420 million 2006: net credit of 330 million relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
a 2007 2006 2005 m m m Finance income b Income from listed investments 7 44 47 Interest income on loan to parent company 994 993 971 b, c, d Other interest and similar income 211 154 209 e Net foreign exchange on items in hedging relationships Expected return on pension scheme assets 2,292 2,070 1,918 Total finance income 3,504 3,261 3,145 Net finance income 886 515 368 a The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 April 2005.
The comparative period has therefore applied the groups previous accounting policies in calculating the recognition and measurement basis for finance income see accounting policies.
b Income from listed investments and other interest and similar income includes 45 million 2006: 37 million relating to gains on held for trading investments.
c On 11 August 2005, the group exercised its option to require early redemption of its US dollar convertible 2008 bond.
Bondholders had the option to take redemption proceeds in the form of cash or shares in the groups interest in LG Telecom.
The majority of bondholders exercised their option to take the redemption proceeds in the form of LG Telecom shares.
Other interest includes a net bond redemption gain of 27 million.
This reflects the write off of LG Telecom shares of 121 million and the associated release from the available-for-sale reserve of 35 million: the write off of the bond and transaction costs of 87 million and the associated option liability of 17 million: and the release from the translation reserve of 9 million credit relating to foreign exchange movements on the investment in LG Telecom to the date of disposal.
d The 2007 financial year includes 139 million relating to interest on settlement of open tax matters disclosed as a specific item see note 4. e Includes a net charge of 123 million 2006: net credit of 85 million relating to foreign exchange movements on hedged investments and a net credit of 123 million 2006: net charge of 85 million relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
Taxation 2007 2006 2005 m m m Analysis of taxation credit expense for the year United Kingdom: Corporation tax at 30% 2006 and 2005: 30% 552 702 834 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1,096 67 4 Non-UK taxation: Current 25 12 4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 38 1 3 Total current tax credit expense 481 648 831 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 367 155 15 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 42 11 1 Total deferred tax expense credit 409 144 14 Total taxation credit expense in the income statement 72 792 817 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 47 6.
Taxation continued Factors affecting taxation credit expense The taxation credit expense on the profit for the year differs from the amount computed by applying the corporation tax rate to the profit before taxation as a result of the following factors: 2007 2006 2005 m % m % m % profit before taxation 3,471 3,035 3,329 Notional taxation expense at UK rate of 30% 2006 and 2005: 30% 1,041 30 911 30.0 999 30.0 Effects of: Non deductible depreciation and amortisation 4 0.1 8 0.2 6 0.2 Non deductible non UK losses 9 0.3 29 1.0 38 1.1 Higher lower taxes on non UK profits 11 0.3 1 14 0.4 Lower taxes on gain on disposal of non-current investments and group undertakings 2 0.1 107 3.2 Other deferred tax assets not recognised 25 0.8 Associates and joint ventures 5 0.1 5 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 78 2.3 77 2.6 2 0.1 Tax credit in respect of settlement of open tax years 938 27.0 Other 114 3.3 48 1.5 107 3.2 Total taxation credit expense and effective tax rate 72 2.1 792 26.1 817 24.6 Specic items 979 28.2 41 0.2 16 2.7 Total taxation expense before specic items effective tax rate 907 26.1 833 26.3 833 27.3 2007 2006 2005 m m m Tax on items taken directly to equity Current tax charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 7 Deferred tax charge credit relating to losses on cash ow hedges 62 45 Deferred tax charge relating to ineffective hedges 9 Deferred tax charge on actuarial gain relating to retirement benefit obligations 424 629 72 Total taxation on items taken to statement of recognised income and expense 486 593 79 Deferred tax credit relating to share based payments 70 5 Current tax credit relating to share based payments 12 Total taxation on items taken directly to equity 404 588 79 7.
Dividends 2007 2006 2005 m m m Final paid in respect of the prior year 454 a Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 2,330 2,553 574 2,330 2,553 1,028 a Interim dividends were paid to the parent company BT Group Investments Limited in the 2007 financial year as follows: first interim dividend of 375 million 15 June 2006 : second interim dividend of 1,233 million 4 September 2006 and third interim dividend of 722 million 1 February 2007.
Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank and in hand 551 488 Cash equivalents Listed cash equivalents Euro treasury bills 10 8 Unlisted cash equivalents US corporate debt securities 422 UK deposits 417 914 European deposits 57 70 US deposits 23 40 Total cash equivalents 507 1,454 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,058 1,942 Bank overdrafts 51 181 Cash and cash equivalents per the cash ow statement 1,007 1,761 The group has cross undertaking guarantee facilities across certain bank accounts which allow a legally enforceable right of set off of the relevant cash and overdraft balances on bank accounts included within each scheme.
Included within bank overdrafts as at 31 March 2007 were balances of 49 million 2006: 171 million which had a legally enforceable right of set off against cash balances of 100 million 2006: 186 million.
These balances have not been netted above as settlement is not intended to take place simultaneously or on a net basis.
48 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9.
Net debt Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured at the net proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
For the purpose of this analysis current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Currency denominated balances within net debt are translated to sterling at swapped rates where hedged.
This denition of net debt measures balances at the expected value of future cash ows due to arise on maturity of financial instruments and removes the balance sheet adjustments made from the re-measurement of hedged risks under fair value hedges and the use of the amortised cost method as required by IAS 39.
In addition the gross balances are adjusted to take account of netting arrangements amounting to 49 million 2006: 171 million.
Net debt is a non GAAP measure since it is not dened in IFRSs but it is a key indicator used by management in order to assess operational performance and balance sheet strength.
2007 2006 m m Analysis of net debt Loans and other borrowings current and non current 8,880 9,935 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 1,058 1,942 Current asset investments 3 364 7,819 7,629 Adjustments: To retranslate currency denominated balances at swapped rates where hedged 577 121 To recognise borrowings and investments at net proceeds and unamortised discount 186 192 Net debt 8,210 7,558 After allocating the element of the adjustments which impacts loans and other borrowings as dened above, gross debt at 31 March 2007 was 9,222 million 31 March 2006: 9,685 million.
2007 2006 m m Reconciliation of movement in net debt Net debt at 1 April 7,558 8,014 Increase decrease in net debt resulting from cash ows 492 296 Net debt assumed or issued on acquisitions 11 Currency movements 124 75 Other non cash movements 25 85 Net debt at 31 March 8,210 7,558 Non-cash transactions Other non cash movements in 2006 includes 87 million relating to the early redemption of the groups US dollar convertible bond for shares in LG Telecom.
Free cash ow The components of free cash ow, which is a non GAAP measure, are presented in the table below and reconciled to net cash inow from operating activities, the most directly comparable IFRS measure.
Free cash ow is not dened in IFRSs but is a key indicator used by management to measure operational performance.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Cash generated from operations before taxation 5,620 7,180 5,901 Income taxes paid, net of repayments 35 390 332 Net cash inow from operating activities 5,585 6,790 5,569 Included in cash ows from investing activities Net purchase of property, plant and equipment and computer software 3,209 2,874 2,945 Net purchase sale of non current financial assets 3 1 537 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 6 12 Interest received 498 185 374 Included in cash ows from nancing activities Interest paid 797 1,086 1,260 Free cash ow 2,080 3,015 2,277 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 49 11.
Intangible assets Brands, customer a Telecommunication lists, and Computer Goodwill licences and other relationships software Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2005 404 197 84 1,160 1,845 Additions 592 592 Disposals and adjustments 8 8 Exchange differences 18 8 8 34 Acquisitions through business combinations 121 1 22 16 160 At 1 April 2006 543 206 106 1,784 2,639 Additions 807 807 Disposals and adjustments 15 104 119 Exchange differences 20 10 12 42 Acquisitions through business combinations 296 4 12 12 324 At 31 March 2007 819 185 118 2,487 3,609 Amortisation At 1 April 2005 51 415 466 Charge for the year 9 11 230 250 Acquisitions 15 15 Disposals and adjustments 8 8 Exchange differences 2 6 8 At 1 April 2006 62 11 658 731 Charge for the year 11 13 360 384 Acquisitions 1 7 8 Disposals and adjustments 8 73 81 Exchange differences 7 10 17 At 31 March 2007 59 24 942 1,025 Carrying amount At 31 March 2007 819 126 94 1,545 2,584 At 31 March 2006 543 144 95 1,126 1,908 a Includes additions in 2007 of 741 million 2006: 544 million in respect of internally developed computer software.
During the 2007 financial year, the group has made a number of acquisitions.
INS, Counterpane and I3IT have been fully integrated into BT Global Services, which is considered to be the relevant cash generating unit CGU.
The group also acquired dabs.
com and PlusNet for which the relevant CGUs are considered to be the Enterprises and Consumer divisions of BT Retail, respectively.
In addition, the group reorganised its structure with effect from 1 April 2006 such that the groups Irish operations were transferred from BT Global Services to BT Retail and BT Ireland now also represents a separate CGU.
For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the group therefore had four relevant CGUs at 31 March 2007.
These are the smallest identiable groups of assets that generate cash inows that have goodwill and are largely independent of the cash inows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is allocated to the groups CGUs as follows: BT Retail BT Global Services Consumer Enterprises BT Ireland Total m m m m m At 1 April 2005 360 37 7 404 Acquisition through business combination 111 1 9 121 Exchange differences 17 1 18 At 1 April 2006 488 39 16 543 Acquisition through business combination 223 57 16 296 Exchange differences 20 20 At 31 March 2007 691 57 55 16 819 50 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Intangible assets continued The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value in use calculations.
These are determined using cash ow projections derived from financial budgets approved by the board covering a four year period.
They reect managements expectation of revenue growth, operating costs and margin for each CGU based on past experience.
Cash ows beyond the four year period have been extrapolated using estimated terminal growth rates ranging from 0% to 2%.
These rates have been determined with regard to projected growth rates for the specic markets in which the CGU participates and are not considered to exceed the long term average growth rates for those markets.
Discount rates applied to the cash ow forecasts are derived from the groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital for regulated and nonregulated products.
The discount rates applied range from 10.0% to 11.4%.
The forecasts are most sensitive to changes in projected revenue growth rates in the first four years of the forecast period.
However there is significant headroom and based on the sensitivity analysis performed we have concluded that no reasonably possible changes in the base case assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Network infrastructure course of a, b b c Land and buildings and equipment Other construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2005 1,065 34,957 2,189 763 38,974 Additions 17 263 247 2,038 2,565 Acquisition through business combinations 23 265 33 2 323 Transfers 50 1,802 15 1,867 Exchange differences 4 71 14 89 Disposals and adjustments 39 1,447 310 41 1,837 At 31 March 2006 1,120 35,911 2,188 895 40,114 Additions 19 296 210 1,936 2,461 Acquisition through business combinations 4 13 11 28 Transfers 57 1,767 9 1,833 Exchange differences 10 107 20 4 141 Disposals and adjustments 75 1,031 178 19 1,265 At 31 March 2007 1,115 36,849 2,220 1,013 41,197 Amortisation At 1 April 2005 371 21,865 1,544 23,780 Charge for the year 58 2,353 223 2,634 Acquisition through business combinations 14 200 28 242 Exchange differences 1 44 10 55 Disposals and adjustments 32 1,479 251 1,762 At 31 March 2006 412 22,983 1,554 24,949 Charge for the year 49 2,307 180 2,536 Acquisition through business combinations 2 7 7 16 Exchange differences 5 64 14 83 Disposals and adjustments 32 1,000 150 1,182 At 31 March 2007 426 24,233 1,577 26,236 Carrying amount At 31 March 2007 689 12,616 643 1,013 14,961 Engineering stores 36 36 Total at 31 March 2007 689 12,616 643 1,049 14,997 At 31 March 2006 708 12,928 634 895 15,165 Engineering stores 57 57 Total at 31 March 2006 708 12,928 634 952 15,222 2007 2006 m m a The carrying amount of land and buildings, including leasehold improvements, comprised: Freehold 254 311 Long leases over 50 years unexpired 131 136 Short leases 304 261 Total land and buildings 689 708 b The carrying amount of the groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of 353 million 2006: 460 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation charge on those assets for the year ended 31 March 2007 was 116 million 2006: 134 million.
c Other mainly comprises motor vehicles and computers.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 51 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2007 2006 m m Additions to property, plant and equipment comprised: Land and buildings 61 68 Network infrastructure and equipment Transmission equipment 1,209 1,429 Exchange equipment 118 80 Other network equipment 854 727 Other Computers and ofce equipment 149 138 Motor vehicles and other 70 123 Total additions to property, plant and equipment 2,461 2,565 Decrease in engineering stores 21 15 Total additions 2,440 2,550 13.
Investments 2007 2006 m m Non current assets Available-for-sale 76 64 Amounts due from group undertakings 157 325 Loans and receivables 13 8 246 397 Current assets Available-for-sale 1 Held for trading 348 Loans and receivables 3 15 3 364 2007 2006 m m Available-for-sale At 1 April 65 1,207 Adjustment on adoption of IAS 39 on 1 April 2005 5 As restated at 1 April 65 1,212 Additions 7 195 Transfer from associates and joint ventures 86 Revaluation surplus transfer to equity 9 32 Disposals 5 1,460 At 31 March 76 65 Less: Non current available-for-sale assets 76 64 Current available-for-sale assets 1 Available-for-sale financial assets consist mainly of listed corporate debt securities and notes denominated in sterling, including an investment in the shares of the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, of 62 million 2006: 54 million.
These shares are held in trust for the BT Group Incentive share plan, the Retention share plan and the Deferred Bonus plan.
2007 2006 m m Held for trading US government debt securities 51 US corporate debt securities 297 348 The investments included above represent listed short term debt securities with quoted market prices.
The group has not designated any financial assets that are not classied as held for trading as financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivable financial assets mainly consist of term deposits, xed term loans and other xed term debt securities mainly denominated in sterling with a xed coupon and in certain instances, options for early redemption.
52 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14.
Associates and joint ventures The groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of its interest in associates and joint ventures, at 31 March, was as follows: Joint 2007 Joint 2006 Associates ventures Total Associates ventures Total m m m m m m Non current assets 16 3 19 20 3 23 Current assets 74 6 80 46 1 47 Current liabilities 29 3 32 21 1 22 Share of net assets 61 6 67 45 3 48 Revenue 137 14 151 74 113 187 Expenses 113 21 134 59 108 167 Taxation 2 2 1 3 4 Share of post tax profit loss 22 7 15 14 2 16 Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 April 2005 28 74 102 Share of post tax profit 13 3 16 Acquisitions 26 8 Disposals 86 86 Translation differences 26 8 At 1 April 2006 45 3 48 Share of post tax profit loss 22 7 15 Dividends received 5 1 6 Acquisitions 34 7 Disposals 1 1 Translation differences and other 3 7 4 At 31 March 2007 61 6 67 During the 2007 financial year, the group disposed of 6% of its equity interest in its associate Tech Mahindra, resulting in a profit on disposal of 22 million.
At 31 March 2007, the fair value of the groups investments in associates and joint ventures for which published price quotations are available was 702 million 2006: nil.
During the 2006 financial year, the LG Telecom joint venture carrying value 86 million, was transferred to available-for-sale assets in connection with the early redemption of the groups US dollar convertible 2008 bond.
Details of the groups principal associate at 31 March 2007 are set out on page 105.
Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 m m Current Trade receivables 1,592 1,662 Amounts owed by ultimate parent company 8 27 Amounts owed by parent company 18,734 18,787 Prepayments 922 686 Accrued income 1,284 1,254 Other debtors 275 292 22,815 22,708 Trade receivables are stated after deducting 280 million 2006: 315 million for doubtful debts.
The amount charged to the income statement for doubtful debts for the year ended 31 March 2007 was 117 million 2006: 170 million, 2005: 150 million.
2007 2006 m m Non current a Other assets 523 305 a Represents costs relating to the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of long term networked IT services contracts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 53 16.
Loans and other borrowings 2007 2006 m m a b US dollar 9.125% 2006: 8.875% notes 2030 minimum 8.625% 1,398 1,580 Sterling 5.75% bonds 2028 608 607 Sterling 3.5% indexed linked notes 2025 301 291 Sterling 8.625% bonds 2020 297 297 a Sterling 8.0% 2006: 7.75% notes 2016 minimum 7.5% 712 709 a b Euro 7.375% 2006: 7.125% notes 2011 minimum 6.875% 768 790 a b US dollar 8.625% 2006: 8.375% notes 2010 minimum 8.125% 1,515 1,713 c US dollar 8.765% bonds 2009 108 120 c US dollar 7% notes 2007 542 624 a Sterling 7.375% notes 2006 minimum 7.125% 409 Total listed bonds, debentures and notes 6,249 7,140 Finance leases 567 845 b, d Commercial paper 794 472 Sterling bank loans due 2007-2009 average effective interest rate 10.4% 2006: 9.7% 147 240 Sterling oating rate note 2007-2009 average effective interest rate 4.3% 2006: 4.1% 42 49 Sterling oating rate loan 2007-2009 average effective interest rate 5.5% 2006: 4.6% 724 1,003 Preference shares 5 Other loans 2007-2010 16 Bank overdrafts of which 49 million 2006: 171 million had a legally enforceable right of set off see note 8 51 181 e Amounts due to ultimate parent company 137 f Amounts due to parent company 153 Total other loans and borrowings 2,064 1,950 Total loans and other borrowings 8,880 9,935 a The interest rate payable on these notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moodys or Standard and Poors S&P reduces the rating ascribed to the groups senior unsecured debt below A3 in the case of Moodys or below A minus in the case of S&P.
In this event, the interest rate payable on the notes and the spread applicable to the floating notes will be increased by 0.25% for each ratings category adjustment by each rating agency.
In addition, if Moodys or S&P subsequently increase the ratings ascribed to the groups senior unsecured debt, then the interest rate then payable on notes and the spread applicable to the floating notes will be decreased by 0.25% for each rating category upgrade by each rating agency, but in no event will the interest rate be reduced below the minimum interest rate reflected in the above table.
b Hedged in a designated cash flow hedge.
c Hedged in a designated cash flow and fair value hedge.
d Commercial paper is denominated in sterling 2007: 25 million, 2006: 35 million, US dollar 2007: nil million, 2006: 66 million and euro 2007: 769 million, 2006: 371 million.
e Amounts due to ultimate parent company are denominated in sterling and incur a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR.
f Amounts due to parent company include loans denominated in euros of 148 million and incur a floating rate of interest based on EURIBOR.
The interest rates payable on loans and borrowings disclosed above reect the coupons on underlying issued loans and borrowings and not the interest rates achieved through applying associated currency and interest rate swaps in hedge arrangements.
The carrying values disclosed above for the current year reect balances at amortised cost adjusted for deferred and current fair value adjustments to the relevant loans or borrowings hedged risk in a fair value hedge.
This does not reect the final principal repayment that will arise after taking account of the relevant derivatives in hedging relationships which is reected in the table below.
Apart from finance leases all borrowings as at 31 March 2007 and 2006 are unsecured.
2007 2006 Principal Principal repayments repayments Carrying Effect of hedging at hedged Carrying Effect of hedging at hedged a a amount and interest rates amount and interest rates m m m m m m Repayments fall due as follows: Within one year, or on demand 2,493 143 2,350 1,940 190 1,750 Between one and two years 330 1 331 1,182 3 1,179 Between two and three years 340 21 361 337 337 Between three and four years 2,250 271 2,521 369 8 377 Between four and five years 12 12 2,467 55 2,522 After five years 3,454 242 3,696 3,628 63 3,691 Total due for repayment after more than one year 6,386 535 6,921 7,983 123 8,106 Total repayments 8,879 392 9,271 9,923 67 9,856 Fair value adjustments for hedged risk 1 12 Total loans and other borrowings 8,880 9,935 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the impact of the currency element of derivatives and adjusts the repayments to exclude interest recognised in the carrying amount.
54 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16.
Loans and other borrowings continued Repayment of outstanding Minimum lease payments lease obligations 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 329 361 303 318 In the second to fifth years inclusive 123 391 56 316 After five years 415 430 208 211 867 1,182 567 845 Less: future finance charges 300 337 Total finance lease obligations 567 845 567 845 The groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
Derivative financial instruments 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash ow hedge 15 234 405 Other interest rate swaps 11 240 49 304 Cross currency swaps cash ow hedge 10 755 20 417 Cross currency swaps fair value hedge 78 12 16 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedge 16 3 75 Other forward foreign exchange contracts 3 Embedded derivatives options 2 52 1,310 88 1,152 Analysed as: Current 27 318 69 332 Non current 25 992 19 820 52 1,310 88 1,152 Details of hedges in which the derivative financial instruments are utilised are disclosed in note 33.
Trade and other payables 2007 2006 m m Current Trade payables 3,717 3,466 Amounts owed to ultimate parent company 3 Amounts owed to parent company 290 715 Other taxation and social security 473 521 Other creditors 906 916 Accrued expenses 519 488 Deferred income 1,071 1,120 6,976 7,229 2007 2006 m m Non current Other creditors 553 445 Deferred income 37 40 590 485 Non current payables relate to operating lease liabilities and deferred gains on a prior period sale and finance leaseback transaction.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 55 19.
Provisions Property Other a b provisions provisions Total m m m At 1 April 2006 226 105 331 c Charged to the income statement 85 30 115 Unwind of discount 3 3 Utilised in the year 74 50 124 At 31 March 2007 240 85 325 Provisions have been analysed between current and non current as follows: 2007 2006 m m Analysed as: Current 100 70 Non current 225 261 325 331 a Property provisions comprise amounts provided for obligations to complete nearly finished new properties and remedial work to be undertaken on properties and the onerous lease provision on rationalisation of the groups property portfolio.
The provisions will be utilised over the remaining lease periods, which range from 1 to 24 years.
b Other provisions include amounts provided for legal or constructive obligations arising from insurance claims and litigation which will be utilised as the obligations are settled.
Also included are amounts provided for the estimated incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to set up Openreach, which will be utilised over one year.
c Includes specific items of 64 million for property rationalisation costs and 30 million relating to the estimated incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to set up Openreach and meet the requirements of the Undertakings, see note 4.
Deferred taxation Share Excess capital Retirement benefit based allowances obligations payments Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2005 1,968 1,434 7 518 9 Charge credit to income statement 16 41 13 132 144 Charge credit to equity 629 5 36 588 At 31 March 2006 1,952 764 25 422 741 Deferred tax asset 764 764 Deferred tax liability 1,952 25 422 1,505 At 31 March 2006 1,952 764 25 422 741 Charge credit to income statement 144 223 33 75 409 Charge credit to equity 424 70 62 416 At 31 March 2007 2,096 117 128 285 1,566 Deferred tax asset 117 117 Deferred tax liability 2,096 128 285 1,683 At 31 March 2007 2,096 117 128 285 1,566 At 31 March 2007, 117 million 2006: 764 million of the deferred tax asset of 117 million 2006: 764 million is expected to be recovered after more than twelve months.
At 31 March 2007, 1,683 million 2006: 1,505 million of the deferred tax liability of 1,683 million 2006: 1,505 million is expected to be settled after more than twelve months.
At 31 March 2007 the group had operating losses, capital losses and other temporary differences carried forward in respect of which no deferred tax assets were recognised amounting to 21.1 billion 2006: 21.8 billion.
The groups capital losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date restrictions.
The expiry date of operating losses carried forward is dependent upon the tax law of the various territories in which the losses arise.
A summary of expiry dates for losses in respect of which restrictions apply is set out below: 2007 Territory m Expiry of losses Restricted losses: Americas 218 2012-2027 Europe 1,226 2007-2022 Total restricted losses 1,444 Unrestricted losses: Operating losses 1,026 No expiry Capital losses 17,595 No expiry Other 1,044 No expiry Total unrestricted losses 19,665 Total 21,109 56 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.
Deferred taxation continued At the balance sheet date, the undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries was 9.3 billion 2006: 8.6 billion.
No deferred tax liabilities have been recognised in respect of these unremitted earnings because the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised are insignicant.
Minority interests 2007 2006 m m At 1 April 52 50 Share of profits 2 1 Disposal 15 Minority share of dividends paid 3 Exchange adjustments 2 1 At 31 March 34 52 22.
Reconciliation of movements in equity 2007 2006 2005 m m m Total equity at 1 April 20,080 19,186 17,417 Transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 204 profit for the year 3,541 2,242 2,513 Dividends 2,330 2,553 1,028 Share based payments 71 65 50 Exchange differences on translation 156 11 19 Actuarial gains 1,409 2,122 294 Net fair value movements on cash ow hedges 163 200 Net movements on available-for-sale assets 8 3 Tax on items taken directly to equity 404 588 79 Minority interest 18 24 Other 4 Net movement in equity 2,284 894 1,769 Total equity at 31 March 22,364 20,080 19,186 23.
Share capital a b Share capital Share premium m m Balances at 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 2,172 8,000 a The authorised share capital of the company throughout the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 was 2,625,000,001 divided into 10,500,000,004 ordinary shares of 25p each.
The allotted called up and fully paid share capital of the company was 2,172 million at 31 March 2007 2006: 2,172 million representing 8,689,755,905 ordinary shares 2006: 8,689,755,905 ordinary shares.
b The share premium account, representing the premium on allotment of shares, is not available for distribution.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 57 24.
Other reserves and retained earnings AvailableMerger Total Cash ow for-sale Translation and other other Retained a b c d reserve reserve reserve reserves reserves earnings m m m m m m At 1 April 2004 858 858 6,341 profit for the year 2,513 Foreign exchange adjustments 19 19 Share based payments 50 Dividends 1,028 Actuarial gain 294 Tax on items taken directly to equity 7 7 72 Other 4 At 31 March 2005 12 858 870 8,094 e Transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 77 5 82 286 At 1 April 2005 77 5 12 858 952 7,808 profit for the year 2,242 Foreign exchange adjustments 40 40 Share based payments 65 Dividends 2,553 Actuarial gain 2,122 Net fair value gains on cash ow hedges 4 4 Gains on available-for-sale assets 32 32 Fair value loss on net investment hedge 20 20 Recognised in income and expense in the year 204 35 9 248 Tax on items taken directly to equity 45 45 633 At 1 April 2006 78 2 23 858 805 9,051 profit for the year 3,541 Foreign exchange adjustments 156 156 Share based payments 71 Dividends 2,330 Actuarial gain 1,409 Net fair value losses on cash ow hedges 201 201 Gains on available-for-sale assets 9 9 Recognised in income and expense in the year 364 1 363 Tax on items taken directly to equity 62 62 342 At 31 March 2007 23 10 133 858 758 11,400 a The cash flow reserve is used to record the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
b The available-for-sale reserve is used to record the cumulative fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets.
The cumulative gains and losses are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the assets.
The gross gain in the period amounted to 9 million 2006: 35 million.
c The translation reserve is used to record cumulative translation differences on the assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
The cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
d The merger reserve arose on the group reorganisation that occurred in November 2001 and represents the difference between the nominal value of shares in the new ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, and the share capital, share premium and capital redemption reserve of the prior ultimate parent company, BT Telecommunications plc.
Other reserves included within this caption relate primarily to unrealised gains and losses on the transfer of assets and group undertakings to a joint venture.
e The total impact on reserves of the IAS 32 and IAS 39 transitional adjustment is a charge of 204 million.
58 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Related party transactions Amounts paid to the groups retirement benefit schemes are set out in note 28.
There were a number of transactions during the year between the company and its subsidiary undertakings, which are eliminated on consolidation and therefore not disclosed.
Amounts owed by the parent company, BT Group Investments Limited, and by the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, are disclosed in note 15.
Amounts owed to the parent company and the ultimate parent company are disclosed in note 18.
Interest income and expense on these loans are disclosed in note 5.
The company holds ordinary shares in the ultimate parent company, disclosed in note 13.
These shares are held in trust for the BT Group Incentive Share Plan, the Retention Share Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Operating Committee which includes the executive directors of the ultimate parent company.
It is this committee which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the group.
Key management personnel compensation, is shown in the table below: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Salaries and short-term benets 6.5 5.8 5.2 Post employment benets 1.4 1.9 1.1 Share based payments 3.2 2.6 1.8 11.1 10.3 8.1 During the 2007 financial year, the group purchased services in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis from its associate, Tech Mahindra Limited.
The value of services purchased was 178 million 2006: 105 million and the amounts outstanding and payable for services at 31 March 2007 was 97 million 2006: 59 million.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred was: 2007 2006 m m Property, plant and equipment and software 779 754 Future minimum operating lease payments for the group were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Payable in the year ending 31 March: 2007 474 2008 479 449 2009 449 439 2010 433 429 2011 421 414 2012 408 402 Thereafter 7,367 7,175 Total future minimum operating lease payments 9,557 9,782 Operating lease commitments were mainly in respect of land and buildings.
Leases have an average term of 24 years and rentals are xed for an average of 24 years.
At 31 March 2007, other than disclosed below there were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of the groups business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The group has insurance cover to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise, the group generally carries its own risks.
The group has provided guarantees relating to certain leases entered into by O2 UK Limited prior to its demerger with O2 on 19 November 2001.
O2 plc has given BT a counterindemnity for these guarantees.
The maximum likely exposure is US$82 million 2006: US$72 million, approximately 39 million 2006: 42 million as at 31 March 2007, although this could increase by a further US$486 million 2006: US$545 million, approximately 248 million 2006: 314 million in the event of credit default in respect of amounts used to defease future lease obligations.
The guarantee lasts until O2 UK Ltd has discharged all its obligations, which is expected to be when the lease ends on 30 January 2017.
The company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of the group.
There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
The Public Prosecutor is in the process of appealing the courts decision.
If the appeal is successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such claim.
Following the European Commissions formal investigation into the way the UK government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston Communications, and whether the government complied with European community treaty roles on state aid, the Commission concluded that no state aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision has now been appealed but the company continues to believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless and that the appeal will not succeed.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 59 27.
Acquisitions INS Plusnet Other Total Year ended 31 March 2007 m m m m Fair value of consideration 133 66 144 343 Less: fair value of net assets acquired 12 9 40 61 Goodwill arising 121 57 104 282 Consideration: Cash 131 64 94 289 Deferred consideration 2 2 50 54 Total 133 66 144 343 The outow of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Cash consideration 131 64 94 289 Less: cash acquired 2 5 14 21 129 59 80 268 Atlanet Radianz Other Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m Fair value of consideration 65 143 69 277 a Less: fair value of net assets acquired 21 104 17 142 a Goodwill arising 44 39 52 135 Consideration: Cash 58 120 52 230 Deferred consideration 7 17 24 Debt assumed 23 23 Total 65 143 69 277 The outow of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Cash consideration 58 115 52 225 Less: cash acquired 5441160 53 71 41 165 a The fair value of net assets acquired through the acquisition of Atlanet have been restated in the current financial year.
For further details see Atlanet acquisition note.
Year ended 31 March 2007 International Network Services On 25 February 2007, BT acquired 100% of the issued share capital of International Network Services Inc. INS for a total consideration of 133 million.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book and fair value m Intangible assets 3 Property, plant and equipment 1 Receivables 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Payables 12 Net assets acquired 12 Goodwill 121 Total consideration 133 The fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of INS are provisional due to the timing of the transaction and will be nalised during the 2008 financial year, which will include the identication and valuation of any intangible assets acquired through the transaction.
Accordingly the value of any acquired intangible assets are aggregated within goodwill.
From the date of acquisition, INS has contributed to the groups results revenue of 5 million and a net loss of 1 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2006, the groups revenue would have been higher by 63 million, and profit for the year would have been lower by 5 million 2006: 74 million higher and 5 million lower respectively.
60 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.
Acquisitions continued PlusNet On 16 November 2006, the group announced an offer to acquire 100% of the share capital of PlusNet plc.
The offer became unconditional on 23 January 2007 once sufficient acceptances had been received from shareholders and all regulatory clearances were obtained.
23 January is therefore considered to be the date of acquisition.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book and fair value m Intangible assets 5 Property, plant and equipment 5 Receivables 1 Cash and cash equivalents 5 Payables 7 Net assets acquired 9 Goodwill 57 Total consideration 66 The fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of PlusNet are provisional due to the timing of the transaction and will be nalised during the 2008 financial year, which will include the identication and valuation of any intangible assets acquired through the transaction.
Accordingly, the value of any acquired intangible assets are aggregated within goodwill.
From the date of acquisition, PlusNet has contributed to the groups results revenue of 7 million and a net income of nil.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2006, the groups revenue would have been higher by 7 million, and profit for the year would have been higher by 3 million 2006: 9 million higher and 1 million higher respectively.
Other acquisitions During the year ended 31 March 2007, the group acquired a number of other smaller subsidiary undertakings including principally dabs.
com plc, I3IT Limited and Counterpane LLC.
The combined net assets and goodwill arising in respect of these acquisitions were as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 1212 Property, plant and equipment 7 1 6 Inventory 4 4 Receivables 21 21 Cash and cash equivalents 14 14 Payables 29 29 Minority interest 12 12 Net assets acquired 29 11 40 Goodwill 104 Total consideration 144 The fair value adjustments in respect of intangible assets are due to the recognition of 8 million and 4 million in respect of a brand and customer relationships respectively.
The assessment of the fair value of the net assets of Counterpane LLC are provisional at 31 March 2007 and will be nalised during the 2008 financial year.
This will include the identication and valuation of any intangible assets acquired through the transaction.
From the date of acquisition, the companies have contributed to the groups results revenue of 180 million and a net profit of 5 million.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2006, the groups revenue would have been higher by 15 million, and profit for the year would have been lower by 4 million 2006: 159 million higher and 3 million higher respectively.
Goodwill in respect of these acquisitions comprises principally the fair value of the skills and expertise of the acquired companies workforce and both anticipated revenue and cost synergies.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 61 27.
Acquisitions continued Year ended 31 March 2006 Atlanet On 28 February 2006 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Atlanet SpA Atlanet for total consideration of 65 million, including deferred consideration of 7 million and acquisition costs of 1 million.
At 31 March 2006, the fair value of Atlanets net assets were determined on a provisional basis.
During the 2007 financial year the determination of fair value has been nalised and adjustments have been made to the balances previously reported.
Prior year balances have not been restated as the amount of the adjustments is not significant to the group.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book and fair value, as Fair value previously reported adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 25 25 Receivables 46 6 40 Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 Payables 43 6 49 Net assets acquired 35 14 21 Goodwill 44 Total consideration 65 The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill comprises principally the anticipated cost synergies and savings that are forecast to arise subsequent to the acquisition.
Radianz On 29 April 2005, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Radianz Limited Radianz for total consideration of 143 million, including acquisition costs of 5 million.
The net assets acquired in the transaction, and the goodwill arising, were as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 2222 Property, plant and equipment 55 4 51 Receivables 40 40 Cash and cash equivalents 44 44 Payables 53 53 Net assets acquired 86 18 104 Goodwill 39 Total consideration 143 Intangible assets, comprising a brand, customer lists and customer relationships, were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill comprises principally the assembled work force, expected cost savings and synergies.
Other During the year ended 31 March 2006 the group acquired a number of other smaller subsidiary undertakings and businesses including principally SkyNet Systems Limited, the CARA Group and Total Network Solutions Limited.
The combined net assets and goodwill arising in respect of these acquisitions were as follows: Book and fair value m Property, plant and equipment 5 Inventories 4 Receivables 26 Cash and cash equivalents 11 Payables 29 Net assets acquired 17 Goodwill 52 Total consideration 69 62 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28.
Retirement benefit plans Background The group offers retirement benefit schemes to its employees.
The groups main scheme, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, is a dened benefit scheme where the benets are based on employees length of service and final pensionable pay.
This scheme has been closed to new entrants since 31 March 2001 and replaced by a dened contribution scheme, the BT Retirement Plan BTRP.
The total pension cost of the group for the year included within staff costs was 643 million 2006: 603 million, 2005: 540 million.
Dened contribution schemes The income statement charge in respect of dened contribution schemes represents the contribution payable by the group based on a xed percentage of employees pay.
The total pension cost for the year in respect of the groups main dened contribution scheme was 28 million 2006: 19 million, 2005: 11 million and 3 million 2006: 2 million, 2005: 1 million of contributions were outstanding at 31 March 2007.
Dened benefit schemes BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited administers and manages the scheme on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed of the scheme and relevant legislation.
Under the terms of the trust deed of the BTPS, there are nine trustee directors appointed by the group, five of which appointments are made with the agreement of the relevant trade unions including the Chairman of the Trustees.
Four trustee directors, other than the Chairman, are appointed by BT on the nomination of the relevant trade unions.
Two of the trustee directors will normally hold senior positions within the group, and two will normally hold or have held senior positions in commerce or industry.
Subject to there being an appropriately qualied candidate, there should be at least one current pensioner or deferred pensioner of the BTPS as one of the trustee directors.
Trustee directors are appointed for a three year term, but are then eligible for re-appointment.
Measurement of scheme assets and liabilities IAS 19 Scheme assets are measured at market value at the balance sheet date.
The liabilities of the BTPS are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash ows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method.
Estimated future cash ows are discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The financial assumptions used to measure the net pension obligation of the BTPS at 31 March 2007 are as follows: Real rates per annum Nominal rates per annum 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 % %% % Rate used to discount liabilities 2.28 2.19 2.63 5.35 5.00 5.40 a a a a Average future increases in wages and salaries 0.75 0.75 1.00 3.77 3.52 3.73 Average increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.00 2.75 2.70 Ination average increase in retail price index 3.00 2.75 2.70 a There is a short term reduction in the real salary growth assumption to 0.5% for the first three years.
The average life expectancy assumptions, after retirement at 60 years of age, are as follows: 2007 2006 Number of years Number of years Male in lower pay bracket 22.6 22.5 Male in higher pay bracket 25.0 24.7 Female 25.6 25.4 Future improvement every 10 years 1.0 1.0 Amounts recognised in respect of dened benefit schemes The net pension obligation is set out below: 2007 2006 Present value Present value Assets of liabilities deficit Assets of liabilities m m m m m m BTPS 38,287 38,580 293 35,550 38,005 2,455 Other schemes 103 199 96 90 182 92 38,390 38,779 389 35,640 38,187 2,547 Deferred tax asset at 30% 117 764 Net pension obligation 272 1,783 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 63 28.
Retirement benefit plans continued Amounts recognised in the income statement on the basis of the above assumptions in respect of the dened benefit pension obligations are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Current service cost including dened contribution schemes 643 603 540 Total operating charge 643 603 540 Expected return on pension scheme assets 2,292 2,070 1,918 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,872 1,816 1,720 Net finance income 420 254 198 Total amount charged to the income statement 223 349 342 An analysis of actuarial gains and losses and the actual return on plan assets is shown below: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the year 1,409 2,122 294 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses 3,825 2,416 294 Actual return on plan assets 3,285 6,925 3,582 Changes in the present value of the dened benefit pension obligation are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Opening dened benefit pension obligation 38,187 34,435 Service cost 600 568 Interest expense 1,872 1,816 Contributions by employees 18 21 Actuarial gain loss 416 2,733 Benets paid 1,477 1,385 Exchange differences 5 1 Closing dened benefit pension obligation 38,779 38,187 The present value of the obligation is derived from long term cash ow projections and is thus inherently uncertain.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Opening fair value of plan assets 35,640 29,628 Expected return 2,292 2,070 Actuarial gains 993 4,855 Regular contributions by employer 406 398 deficiency contribution by employer 520 54 Contributions by employees 18 21 Benets paid 1,477 1,385 Exchange differences 2 1 Closing fair value of plan assets 38,390 35,640 The BTPS assets are invested in UK and overseas equities, UK and overseas properties, xed interest and index linked securities, deposits and short-term investments.
At 31 March 2007, the UK equities included 14 million 2006: 15 million ordinary shares of BT Group plc with a market value of 43 million 2006: 33 million.
The group occupies two properties owned by the BTPS on which an annual rental of 0.1 million is payable 2006: 2 million.
The expected long-term rate of return and fair values of the assets of the BTPS at 31 March were: 2007 2006 Expected longExpected longterm rate of term rate of return return per annum Asset fair value Target per annum Asset fair value Target % bn % % % bn % % UK equities 7.4 9.8 26 23 7.4 9.9 28 25 Non-UK equities 7.4 11.2 29 31 7.4 10.8 30 32 Fixed-interest securities 4.7 6.5 17 16 4.9 5.6 16 16 Index-linked securities 4.4 3.3 9 10 4.1 3.2 9 10 Property 5.8 4.7 12 13 5.8 4.4 12 12 Cash and other 4.8 2.8 7 7 4.0 1.7 5 5 6.4 38.3 100 100 6.5 35.6 100 100 64 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28.
Retirement benefit plans continued The assumption for the expected return on scheme assets is a weighted average based on the assumed expected return for each asset class and the proportions held of each asset class at the beginning of the year.
The expected returns on xed interest and interest linked securities are based on the gross redemption yields at the start of the year.
Expected returns on equities and property are based on a combination of an estimate of the risk premium above yields on government bonds and consensus economic forecasts of future returns.
The long-term expected rate of return on investments does not affect the level of the obligation but does affect the expected return on pension scheme assets within the net finance income.
The history of experience gains and losses are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Present value of dened benefit obligation 38,779 38,187 34,435 Less: Fair value of plan assets 38,390 35,640 29,628 Net pension obligation 389 2,547 4,807 Experience adjustment on dened benefit obligation 190 527 437 Percentage of the present value of the dened benefit obligation 0.5% 1.4% 1.3% Experience adjustment on plan assets 993 4,855 1,664 Percentage of the plan assets 2.6% 13.6% 5.6% The group expects to contribute approximately 748 million to the BTPS, including 320 million of deficiency contributions, in the 2008 financial year.
Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure the BTPS scheme liabilities The assumed discount rate, mortality rates and salary increases all have a significant effect on the measurement of scheme liabilities.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions.
Impact on deficit Decrease Increase bn 0.25 percentage point increase to: discount rate 1.4 salary increases 0.3 Additional 1.0 year increase to life expectancy 1.5 Funding valuation and future funding obligations A triennial valuation is carried out for the independent scheme trustees by a professionally qualied independent actuary, using the projected unit credit method.
The purpose of the valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
The funding valuation is performed at 31 December because this is the financial year end of the BTPS.
The valuation basis for funding purposes is broadly as follows: scheme assets are valued at market value at the valuation date: and scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit credit method and discounted to their present value.
The last three triennial valuations were determined using the following long-term assumptions: Real rates per annum Nominal rates per annum 2005 2002 1999 2005 2002 1999 valuation valuation valuation valuation valuation valuation %%%%%% Discount rate Pre retirement liabilities 3.06 5.84 Post retirement liabilities 1.79 4.54 Return on existing assets, relative to market values 4.52 2.38 7.13 5.45 after allowing for an annual increase in dividends of 1.00 1.00 3.53 4.03 Return on future investments 4.00 4.00 6.60 7.12 Average increase in retail price index 2.70 2.50 3.00 a a Average future increases in wages and salaries 0.75 1.5 1.75 3.47 4.04 4.80 Average increase in pensions 2.70 2.50 3.00 a There is a short term reduction in the real salary growth assumption to 1.25% for the first three years.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 65 28.
Retirement benefit plans continued At 31 December 2005, the assets of the BTPS had a market value of 34.4 billion 2002: 22.8 billion and were sufficient to cover 90.9% 2002: 91.6% of the benets accrued by that date.
This represented a funding deficit of 3.4 billion compared to 2.1 billion at 31 December 2002.
The funding valuation uses conservative assumptions whereas, had the valuation been based on the actuarys view of the median estimate basis the scheme would have been in surplus.
The market value of equity investments had increased and the investment income and contributions received by the scheme exceeded the benets paid.
In the three years ended 31 December 2005, the deficit had not improved by the same amount as the assets because the liabilities included longer life expectancy assumptions and used a lower discount rate.
Following the valuation, the ordinary contributions rate increased to 19.5% of pensionable salaries including employee contributions of 6% from 18.2% with effect from 1 January 2007.
In addition, the group will make deficiency payments equivalent to 280 million per annum for ten years.
The first three years instalments are to be paid up front: 520 million was paid in the 2007 financial year and 320 million was paid in April 2007.
Subsequently, annual payments of 280 million will be made, with the next payment due in December 2009.
This compared to annual deficiency payments of 232 million that were determined under the 2002 funding valuation.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the group made regular contributions of 402 million 2006: 396 million.
deficiency contributions of 520 million were also made 2006: 54 million, and a further 320 million was paid in April 2007.
Accordingly no further deficiency payments are due until after the 31 December 2008 valuation.
The intention is for there to be sufficient assets in the scheme to pay pensions now and in the future.
Without any further contribution from the company, it is estimated that as at 31 December 2005, the assets of the scheme would have been sufficient to provide around 70% of the members benets with an insurance company.
If the group were to become insolvent, however, there are a number of additional protections available to members.
Firstly, there is the Crown Guarantee which was granted when the group was privatised in 1984.
This applies, on a winding up of the group, to pension entitlements for anyone who joined the scheme before 6 August 1984, and to payments to beneciaries of such persons.
Secondly, the Pension Protection Fund PPF may take over the scheme and pay certain benets to members.
There are limits on the amounts paid by the PPF and this would not give exactly the same benets as those provided by the scheme.
Under the terms of the trust deed that governs the BTPS the group is required to have a funding plan that should address the deficit over a maximum period of 20 years.
The agreed funding plan addresses the deficit over a period of ten years.
The BTPS was closed to new entrants on 31 March 2001 and the age prole of active members will consequently increase.
Under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost, as a proportion of the active members pensionable salaries, is expected to increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Despite the scheme being closed to new entrants, the projected payment prole extends over more than 60 years.
Directors emoluments and pensions For the year ended 31 March 2007 the aggregate emoluments of the directors was 5,475,000 2006: 4,809,000.
This includes deferred bonuses of 1,889,500 2006: 1,701,000 which have been awarded and are payable in 5p ordinary shares of BT Group plc in three years time subject to continuous employment.
Retirement benets were accruing to two directors 2006: three under a dened benefit pension scheme.
During the year one director exercised options 2006: nil under BT Group share option plans.
Four directors who held ofce for the whole or part of the year 2006: four received or are entitled to receive 5p ordinary shares of BT Group plc under BT long-term incentive plans.
The aggregate value of BT Group plc shares vested in directors during the year under BT long-term incentive plans was 1,313,000.
The emoluments of the highest paid director were 3,226,000 2006: 3,010,000.
He is entitled to receive 3,135,251 BT Group plc 5p ordinary shares under BT long-term incentive plans subject to continuous employment and in some cases to certain performance conditions being met.
He did not exercise any share options.
Included in the above aggregate emoluments are those of Ben Verwaayen and Hanif Lalani, who are also directors of the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
The directors do not believe it is practicable for the purposes of this report to apportion the amounts of total emoluments received by them between their services as directors of the company and their services as directors of BT Group plc.
66 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.
Share based payments The total charge recognised in the 2007 financial year in respect of share based payment plans was 93 million 2006: 76 million, 2005: 50 million.
The total fair value to be recognised over the vesting period of share options and awards granted in the 2007 financial year was 92 million 2006: 105 million, 2005: 88 million.
The ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, has an employee share investment plan and savings-related share option plans for the employees of the company and those of its participating subsidiaries, further share option plans for selected group employees and an employee stock purchase plan for employees in the United States.
It also has several share plans for executives.
All share based payment plans are equity settled and details of these plans are provided below.
Share option plans BT Group Employee Sharesave plans There is an HM Revenue and Customs approved savings related share option plan, under which employees save on a monthly basis, over a three or five year period, towards the purchase of shares at a xed price determined when the option is granted.
This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price for five year plans and 10% for three year plans.
The options must be exercised within six months of maturity of the savings contract, otherwise they lapse.
Options are granted annually, usually in June.
Similar plans operate for BTs overseas employees.
Employees may cancel sharesave options and remain employed by the group.
In such cases the options cancelled do not vest and the monthly savings contributions are returned to the employee, with interest if applicable.
Such events are accounted for by ceasing to record a share based payments charge from the date of the employees withdrawal from the relevant plan.
Previously recorded share based payment charges are not reversed, and no charge is made for the accelerated vesting of future options that will not now vest.
For options outstanding at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005, the weighted average exercise prices are shown below.
2007 2006 2005 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Number of Weighted share average share average share average options exercise options exercise options exercise millions price millions price millions price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 279 166p 262 169p 233 180p Granted during the year 49 185p 59 179p 91 149p Forfeited during the year 12 176p 20 173p 59 176p Exercised during the year 42 199p 2 215p Expired during the year 2 179p 20 216p 3 176p Outstanding at the end of the year 272 165p 279 166p 262 169p Exercisable at the end of the year 2 210p 16 218p The weighted average remaining contractual life of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 4 months 2006: nil, 2005: 5 months.
The intrinsic value of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 2 million 2006: nil, 2005: nil.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year.
The weighted average share price during the year was 265p 2006: 205p, 2005: 183p.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year was 36.5 million 2006: 0.7 million, 2005: nil.
The intrinsic value of options outstanding at 31 March 2007 was 378 million 2006: 115 million, 2005: 105 million.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 67 31.
Share based payments continued The weighted average fair value of savings related options granted during the 2007 financial year has been estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: an expected life extending three months later than the first exercise date: share price at date of grant of 229p 2006: 223p, 2005: 195p : estimated annualised dividend yield of approximately 5.5% 2006: 5%, 2005: 5% : risk free interest rates of approximately 5% 2006: 4%, 2005: 5% and expected volatility of approximately 17% 2006: 25%, 2005: 25%.
Volatility has been determined by reference to BTs historical volatility over a three year period, which is expected to reect the BT share price in the future.
The exercise prices are 202p 2006: 192p, 2005: 165p for Sharesave options exercisable three years after the date of grant and 179p 2006: 171p, 2005: 146p for Sharesave options exercisable five years after the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of Sharesave options granted in the 2007 financial year was 35p 2006: 44p, 2005: 41p for Sharesave options exercisable three years after the date of grant and 45p 2006: 55p, 2005: 52p for Sharesave options exercisable five years after the date of grant.
Options granted under BTs international sharesave, which is a three year plan, have been valued using the same assumptions.
The weighted average fair value of these share options is 46p 2006: 49p, 2005: 52p.
BT Group Global Share Option Plan GSOP There were no options granted under the GSOP in the 2007 or 2006 financial years.
The options granted in previous years will be exercisable subject to continued employment and meeting corporate performance targets.
These options were valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The weighted average fair value of options granted under the 2005 GSOP was estimated as 36p.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: dividend yield of 5%, expected volatility of 25% and a risk free interest rate of 4%.
BT Group Legacy Option Plan On the demerger of O2, BTs share option plans ceased to operate and were replaced by similar BT Group Employee Sharesave plans and the BT Group Global Share Option Plan.
The BT Group Legacy Option Plan was launched on 17 December 2001 following the scheme of arrangement and demerger of O2 in November 2001, and is therefore outside the scope of IFRS 2.
Replacement unapproved options over BT Group plc shares were granted to all participants in the executive option plans who had released their options over British Telecommunications plc shares.
The value of the replacement options was determined by averaging the combined prices of BT Group plc and O2 plc shares over the 20 dealing days following the demerger on 19 November 2001.
This resulted in a factor of 1.3198 being applied to the former option over British Telecommunications plc shares in order to give the number of BT Group plc shares under the new option.
The option prices of the original options were also adjusted to take account of the different number of shares under option.
The options are exercisable subject to continued employment and meeting corporate performance targets, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For options outstanding at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005 in respect of the BT Group Global Share Option Plan and the BT Group Legacy Option Plan, the weighted average exercise prices are shown below.
2007 2006 2005 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Number of Weighted share average share average share average options exercise options exercise options exercise millions price millions price millions price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 187 213p 206 213p 194 216p Granted during the year 31 193p Forfeited during the year 9 222p 16 205p 18 193p Exercised during the year 20 203p 3 199p Expired during the year 55 189p 1 353p Outstanding at the end of the year 103 227p 187 213p 206 213p Exercisable at the end of the year 48 261p 57 280p 34 206p Options were exercised regularly throughout the year.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 67 months 2006: 84 months, 2005: 80 months.
The intrinsic value of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 37 million 2006: 8 million, 2005: 1 million.
The total fair value of options vested during the year was 8 million 2006: 8 million, 2005: nil.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year was 23 million 2006: nil, 2005: nil.
The intrinsic value of options outstanding at 31 March 2007 was 96 million 2006: 46million, 2005: 21 million.
68 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Share based payments continued Outstanding options The number of share options outstanding on BT Group plc shares under all share option plans at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005, together with their exercise prices and dates, were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Exercise price No of options Exercise price No of options Exercise price No of options Normal dates of exercise per share millions per share millions per share millions BT Group Employee Sharesave Plans 2005 218p-255p 20 2006 154p-173p 20 154p-173p 22 2007 146p-227p 25 146p-227p 50 146p-227p 57 2008 154p-192p 99 154p-192p 103 154p 92 2009 146p-231p 75 146p 66 146p 71 2010 171p 38 171p 40 2011 179p 35 Total 272 279 262 BT Group Legacy Option Plan 2001-2011 318p-602p 12 318p-602p 14 318p-602p 15 Total 12 14 15 BT Group Global Share Option Plan 2005-2012 163p-263p 163p-263p 45 163p-263p 51 2004-2014 176p-199.5p 76 176p-199.5p 100 176p-199.5p 110 2007-2015 179p-215p 15 179p-215p 28 179p-215p 30 Total 91 173 191 Total outstanding options 375 466 468 The options outstanding under all share option plans at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005 have weighted average remaining expected and contractual lives as follows: Executive plans 2007 2006 2005 Number of Number of Number of Weighted outstanding Weighted Weighted outstanding Weighted Weighted outstanding Weighted Range of average share average Range of average share average Range of average share average exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life 150p-249p 198p 91 80 months 150p-249p 195p 171 89 months 150p-249p 195p 190 100 months 250p-349p 263p 1 59 months 250p-349p 302p 8 65 months 250p-349p 304p 8 77 months 350p-650p 469p 11 49 months 350p-650p 552p 8 53 months 350p-650p 554p 8 65 months Total 103 187 206 All employee plans 2007 2006 2005 Weighted Number of Weighted Weighted Number of Weighted Weighted Number of Weighted Range of average outstanding average Range of average outstanding average Range of average outstanding average exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life 100p-199p 155p 249 33 months 100p-199p 158p 243 39 months 100p-199p 154p 203 47 months 200p-300p 214p 23 21 months 200p-300p 220p 36 18 months 200p-300p 222p 59 22 months Total 272 279 262 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 69 31.
Share based payments continued Other share based payment plans Incentive Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and Retention Share Plan The BT Group Incentive Share Plan ISP and the BT Group Retention Share Plan RSP were introduced for employees of the group in 2001.
Under the plans, BT Group plc shares are conditionally awarded to participants.
Under the ISP, participants are only entitled to these shares in full at the end of a three year period if the group has met the relevant pre-determined corporate performance measure and if the participants are still employed by the group.
The corporate performance measure is BTs total shareholder returns TSR measured against a comparator group of companies from the European Telecom Sector at the beginning of the relevant performance period.
The ISP operated in the 2007 financial year with 1,507 participants being granted awards over 24.9 million shares 2006: 1,382 participants were granted awards over 23.2 million shares, 2005: 1,406 participants were granted awards over 12.6 million shares.
Awards under the ISP have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
TSRs were generated for BT and the comparator group at the end of the three year performance period, using each companys volatility and dividend yield, as well as the cross correlation between pairs of stocks.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted under the ISP for the 2007 financial year was 127p 2006: 123p, 2005: 98p.
Awards under the ISP were valued by reference to the weighted average market price of the shares on the date of grant of 230p 2006: 222p, 2005: 195p.
Under the RSP, the length of retention period before awards vest is exible.
Awards may vest annually in tranches.
The shares are transferred at the end of a specified period, only if the employee is still employed by the group.
During the 2007 financial year participants were granted awards over 0.8 million shares 2006: 1.8 million shares, 2005: 1.6 million shares.
Awards under the RSP were valued by using the average middle market share price for the three days prior to grant date.
The weighted average share price for awards granted in the 2007 financial year was 267p 2006: 216p, 2005: 182p.
During the 2007 financial year 1.2 million shares vested in 11 participants in the RSP 2006: 1.1 million shares vested in 16 participants, 2005: 2.0 million shares vested in 11 participants.
The BT Group Deferred Bonus Plan DBP was established in 1998 and awards are granted annually to selected employees of the group.
Under this plan, shares in BT Group plc are transferred to participants at the end of three years if they continue to be employed by the group throughout that period.
During the 2007 financial year participants were granted awards over 5.8 million shares 2006: 2.3 million shares, 2005: 2.9 million shares.
Awards under the DBP were valued using the average middle market share price for the three days prior to grant date which was 232p 2006: 223p, 2005: 193p.
During the 2007 financial year 2.9 million shares 2006: 2.0 million shares, 2005: 0.6 million shares were transferred to 184 2006: 193, 2005: 219 participants at the end of the three year period.
The number of shares issuable under the ISP, DBP and RSP were as follows: ISP DBP RSP Total Number of shares millions At 1 April 2004 5.2 3.0 8.2 Awards granted 12.6 2.9 1.6 17.1 Awards vested 0.6 2.0 2.6 Awards lapsed 0.3 0.3 Dividend shares reinvested 0.6 0.4 0.1 1.1 At 31 March 2005 12.9 7.9 2.7 23.5 Awards granted 23.2 2.3 1.8 27.3 Awards vested 2.0 1.1 3.1 Awards lapsed 1.0 0.2 1.2 Dividend shares reinvested 1.7 0.4 0.2 2.3 At 31 March 2006 36.8 8.4 3.6 48.8 Awards granted 24.9 5.8 0.8 31.5 Awards vested 2.9 1.2 4.1 Awards lapsed 5.3 0.6 0.1 6.0 Dividend shares reinvested 2.6 0.5 0.1 3.2 At 31 March 2007 59.0 11.2 3.2 73.4 In accordance with the terms of the ISP, DBP and RSP plans, dividends or dividend equivalents earned on shares during the conditional periods are reinvested in company shares for the potential benefit of the participants.
At 31 March 2007, 15.6 million shares 2006: 21.4 million: 2005: 23.3 million were held in trust and 57.8 million shares 2006: 27.4 million: 2005: 0.2 million were held in treasury for employee share plans and other share based payment plans.
70 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Share based payments continued Employee Share Investment Plan The BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP has been in operation since December 2001.
The ESIP, which has been approved by HM Revenue and Customs, comprises directshare and allshare.
Under directshare, UK employees are given an opportunity to purchase BT Group plc shares partnership shares monthly out of pre-tax salary up to a maximum value of 1,500 per year.
During the 2007 financial year, 6.3 million shares 2006: 6.4 million shares, 2005: 6.1 million shares, including 1.0 million shares 2006: 0.8 million shares, 2005: 0.2 million shares purchased by dividend reinvestment, were purchased by the Trustee of the ESIP on behalf of 15,445 2006: 14,443, 2005: 13,017 employees at a total cost of 14.3 million 2006: 13.7 million, 2005: 11.7 million.
Allshare, the free shares element of the ESIP allows BT to provide free shares to UK employees which are held in trust for at least three years.
Employees outside the UK receive the same awards of shares where practicable, otherwise they will receive awards equivalent to the value of the free shares.
In 2007, 1% 2006: 1%, 2005: 0.5% of pre-tax profits, amounting to 25 million, was allocated to Allshare 2006: 22 million, 2005: 11 million.
Up to 2% of pre-tax profits would have been available subject to meeting two corporate performance targets: one of these to maintain earnings per share at the same level as in the 2006 financial year, and the other to have five percent more customers very or extremely satisfied with BT provided the percentage of customers who are dissatisfied did not increase compared with the 2006 financial year.
The earnings per share target was met but not the one for customer satisfaction.
From the 2008 financial year onwards, Allshare will be replaced by free BT Total Broadband Option 3 for all employees in the UK.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan The BT Group Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP, for employees in the US, enables participants to purchase American Depositary Shares ADs quarterly at a price the Initial Base Option Price which is 85% of the fair market price of an ADS at the start of the Initial Enrolment Period of, in the case of employees who enrol in the ESPP after the Initial Enrolment Period, 85% of the fair market price of an ADS on the last business day of the calendar quarter immediately following enrolment.
The fourth offer, with an Initial Base Option Price of US$32.52 ended in December 2006.
A fifth offer was launched in December 2006 with an Initial Base Option Price of US$46.00 and will expire in December 2008.
Openreach In the Undertakings given to Ofcom on 22 September 2005, BT agreed that the incentive elements of the remuneration of employees within Openreach should be linked to Openreach performance rather than BT targets or share price.
However Openreach employees are allowed to participate in the BT HMRC approved all-employee share plans on the same terms as other BT employees.
Therefore in order to comply with the Undertakings, during the 2007 financial year BT offered a cash alternative to 102 Openreach employees holding BT share options and awards in the BT Group plc 2004 and 2005 ISP and the 2004 GSOP.
The cash alternative is payable to the employees at the time the options and awards would normally vest and remains subject to the employees continuing in employment throughout the vesting period.
Those employees who declined the cash alternative will continue to be entitled to exercise their awards in accordance with the original vesting timetable.
The impact of this modication did not have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
New arrangements were also introduced for Openreach employees during the 2007 financial year whereby long term incentive arrangements are linked to Openreach targets and will be paid in cash instead of shares and hence are neither equity or cash settled share based payment arrangements.
Audit and non audit services The following fees for audit and non audit services were paid or are payable to the companys auditor,  LLP, for the three years ended 31 March 2007.
2007 2006 2005 000 000 000 Audit services Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 3,061 1,883 1,745 Non audit services Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3,518 3,286 2,363 Other services pursuant to legislation 1,212 1,361 1,487 Tax services 763 1,775 2,912 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 748 317 989 All other services 23 556 480 9,325 9,178 9,976 In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non audit services can be provided by the companys external auditors and the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
All non-audit services are approved by the Audit committee.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 71 32.
Audit and non audit services continued Audit Services represents fees payable for services in relation to the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements and also includes fees for the report of the ultimate parent company under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Other services pursuant to legislation represents fees payable for services in relation to other statutory lings or engagements that are required to be carried out by the companys auditor.
In particular, this includes fees for audit reports issued on the groups regulatory financial statements.
Tax services represents fees payable for tax compliance and advisory services.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions represent fees payable in relation to due diligence work completed on acquisitions and disposals.
All other services represents fees payable for non-regulatory reporting on internal controls and other advice on accounting matters.
Financial instruments and risk management The group adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement with effect from 1 April 2005.
Financial information was previously prepared under UK GAAP for the financial year ended 31 March 2005.
Where applicable, information for the comparative period has been separately disclosed below in order to comply with the previous requirements of UK GAAP.
The group issues or holds financial instruments mainly to finance its operations: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage the currency and interest rate risks arising from its operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and trade payables, arise directly from the groups operations.
The group nances its operations primarily by a mixture of issued share capital, retained profits, deferred taxation, long-term loans and short-term loans, principally by issuing commercial paper supported by committed borrowing facilities.
The group borrows in the major long-term debt markets in major currencies.
Typically, but not exclusively, the bond markets provide the most cost-effective means of long-term borrowing.
The group uses derivative financial instruments primarily to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates against these borrowings.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The group also uses financial instruments to hedge some of its currency exposures arising from its overseas short-term investment funds and other non-UK assets, liabilities and forward purchase commitments.
The financial instruments used comprise borrowings in foreign currencies and forward currency contracts.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
The groups prole of borrowings and short-term funds is managed with consideration of the cash ow from operations.
These borrowings and short-term funds are managed by the centralised treasury operation.
The types of financial instrument used for investment of short-term funds are prescribed in group treasury policies with limits on the exposure to any one organisation.
Short-term investment in financial instruments is partially undertaken on behalf of the group by substantial external fund managers who are limited to dealing in debt instruments and certain dened derivative instruments and are given strict guidelines on credit, diversication and maturity proles.
The group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity, funding, investment and the groups financial risk, including risk from volatility in currency and interest rates and counterparty credit risk.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and the objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
The Board sets the policy for the groups centralised treasury operation and its activities are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of the borrowings and investments under its management.
Counterparty credit risk is closely monitored and managed within controls set by the Board.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the groups net debt note 9 increased from 7.6 billion to 8.2 billion mainly due to outows arising on investing activities such as capital expenditure and acquisitions and from nancing activities such as dividend and net interest payments which more than offset inows mainly arising from operating activities.
During the 2007 financial year, debt amounting to 1.1 billion matured consisting of the 2006 sterling 7.375% notes, finance leases and other sterling oating rate loans and notes.
This was offset by increased holdings of commercial paper, increases in intragroup borrowings and lower current financial assets and cash and cash equivalent investments.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 the groups net debt note 9 reduced from 8.0 billion to 7.6 billion mainly due to operational and working capital inows.
During the 2006 financial year two substantial notes matured, namely the 2005 US dollar 7.875% notes and 2006 Euro 6.375% notes amounting to 3.8 billion and were primarily funded from current financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The group utilised its commercial paper programme during the year, which was supported by a committed borrowing facility, as well as raising a sterling oating rate borrowing of 1 billion.
There has been no change in the nature of the groups risk prole between 31 March 2007 and the date of these financial statements.
72 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Interest rate risk management The group has interest bearing financial assets and financial liabilities.
The groups policy is to ensure that at least 70% of BT Group plcs consolidated net debt is at xed rates.
In order to manage this prole, the group has entered into interest rate swap agreements with commercial banks and other institutions to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are xed.
Under interest rate swaps, the group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the differences between xed rate and oating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings have been, and are, subject to xed sterling interest rates after applying the impact of hedging instruments.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts totalling 5.1 billion 2006: 5.1 billion.
At 31 March 2007, the groups xed:oating interest rate prole, after hedging, on net debt was 73:27 2006: 84:16.
Based on the composition of financial instruments at 31 March 2007, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the groups annual finance income by approximately 180 million which is consistent with the 2006 financial year.
Foreign exchange risk management The purpose of the groups foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the group from the risk that the eventual net inows and net outows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
Most of the groups current revenue is invoiced in pounds sterling, and most of its operations and costs arise within the UK.
The groups foreign currency borrowings, which totalled 5.4 billion 2006: 5.4 billion, are used to finance its operations.
These borrowings have been predominantly swapped to sterling.
Cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts have been entered into to reduce the foreign currency exposure on the groups operations and the groups net assets.
The group also enters into forward currency contracts to hedge foreign currency investments, interest expense, capital purchases and purchase and sale commitments on a selective basis.
The commitments hedged are principally US dollar and euro denominated.
As a result of these policies, the groups exposure to foreign currency arises mainly on the residual currency exposure on its non-UK investments in its subsidiaries and on imbalances between the value of outgoing and incoming international calls.
A 10% strengthening in sterling against major currencies would cause the groups net assets at 31 March 2007 to fall by less than 220 million 2006: 150 million, with an insignicant effect on the groups profits.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency with a total gross notional principal of 6.1 billion 2006: 6.4 billion.
The majority of these instruments were cross currency swaps with a remaining term ranging from two months to 24 years.
The notional value of forward currency contracts included in the gross notional principal at 31 March 2007 were 1,297 million 2006: 809 million for purchases of currency and 2 million 2006: 781 million for sales of currency.
The forward currency contracts had a term remaining ranging from two to 321 days.
Credit risk management The group considers that it is not exposed to major concentrations of credit risk.
The group, however, is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
The group limits the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken with a single counterparty, or group of related counterparties, the group may enter into a netting arrangement to reduce the groups exposure to credit risk.
Currently the group makes use of standard International Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA documentation.
In addition, where the group has a legal right of set off and the ability and intention to settle net, the relevant assets and liabilities are netted within the balance sheet.
The group seeks collateral or other security where it is considered necessary.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the groups financial assets at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 is represented by the amounts reported under the corresponding balance sheet headings.
Liquidity risk management The group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into long and short term financial instruments to support operational and other funding requirements.
The groups liquidity and funding management process includes projecting cash ows and considering the level of liquid assets in relation thereto, monitoring balance sheet liquidity and maintaining a diverse range of funding sources and back-up facilities.
Liquid assets surplus to immediate operating requirements of the group are generally invested and managed by the centralised treasury function.
Requirements of group companies for operating finance are met whenever possible from central resources.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate committed borrowing facilities.
During the year the group utilised its commercial paper programme which was supported by a committed borrowing facility of up to 1,500 million 2006: 1,500 million.
The facility is available for a period of five years.
The group had additional committed borrowing facilities of 2,035 million 2006: 35 million.
This amount includes a facility of 2,000 million 2006: nil and is available for one year with an extension option for a future year.
Renancing risk is managed by limiting the amount of borrowing that mature within any specified period.
Price risk management The group has limited exposure to equity securities price risk on investments held by the group.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 73 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Hedging activities The group entered into a combination of interest rate and cross currency swaps designated as a combination of fair value and cash ow hedges in order to hedge certain risks associated with the groups US dollar and euro borrowings.
The risks being hedged consist of currency cash ows associated with future interest and principal payments and the fair value risk of certain elements of borrowings arising from uctuations in currency rates and interest rates.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements in cash ow hedges against borrowings with a total notional principal amount of 3.2 billion 2006: 3.2 billion.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 15 million and liabilities of 234 million 2006: 405 million.
The interest rate swaps have a remaining term ranging from four to 24 years 2006: four to 25 years to match the underlying hedged cash ows arising on the borrowings consisting of annual and semi-annual interest payments.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 5.5% 2006: 4.6% and interest payable are at a weighted average rate of 5.9% 2006: 5.9%.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding cross currency swap agreements in cash ow and fair value hedges against borrowings with a total notional principal amount of 4.8 billion 2006: 4.8 billion.
The fair value of these cross currency swaps at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 10 million 2006: 32 million and liabilities of 833 million 2006: 433 million.
The cross currency swaps have a remaining term ranging from two months to 24 years 2006: one to 25 years to match the underlying hedged borrowings consisting of annual and semi-annual interest payments and the repayment of principal amounts.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 6.9% 2006: 6.9% for euro cross currency swaps and 8.2% 2006: 8.2% for dollar cross currency swaps and interest payable at a weighted average rate of 9.2% 2006: 8.5%.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges of currency cash ows associated with certain euro and US dollar step up interest payments on bonds.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 205 million 2006: 77 million.
The fair value of the forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised an asset of 1 million 2006: 1 million and had a remaining term of between three and 11 months 2006: three and 11 months after which they will be rolled into new contracts.
The hedged interest cash ows arise on a semi-annual basis and extend over a period of up to 24 years 2006: 12 years.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges of currency cash ows associated with certain euro and US dollar commercial paper issues.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 760 million 2006: 434 million.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 15 million 2006: 6 million and had a remaining term of less than three months 2006: less than two months to match the cash ows on maturity of the underlying commercial paper.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges against currency cash ows associated with the forecast purchase of xed assets and invoice cash ows arising on certain dollar denominated supplies.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 2 million 2006: 6 million for sales of currency and 165 million 2006: 197 million for purchases of currency.
The fair value of forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised liabilities of 3 million 2006: nil and had a remaining term of less than one month 2006: less than one month after which they will be rolled into new contracts.
The forecast cash ows are anticipated to arise over a period of one month to six years 2006: one month to six years from the balance sheet date.
The group has hedged currency cash ows associated with US dollar denominated investments using forward currency contracts.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of nil 2006: 759 million.
The fair value of the forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised liabilities of nil 2006: 5 million with a remaining term of less than one month.
Other derivatives At 31 March 2007, the group held certain foreign currency forward and interest rate swap contracts that were not in hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39.
Foreign currency forward contracts were economically hedging operational purchases and sales and had a notional principal amount of nil for sales of currency 2006: 16 million and 167 million for purchases of currency 2006: 101 million and had a maturity period of under 9 months 2006: under 12 months.
Interest rate swaps not in hedging relationships under IAS 39 had a notional principal amount of 1.9 billion 2006: 1.9 billion and mature between 2014 and 2030 2006: 2014 and 2030.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 6.5% 2006: 6.1% and interest payable are at a weighted average rate of 8.1% 2006: 7.7%.
The volatility arising from these swaps is recognised through the income statement but is limited due to a natural offset in their valuation movements.
At 31 March 2006, the group recognised the fair value of an option contained in a supplier contract which required separate recognition.
In addition, two embedded derivatives expired during the year.
The first related to an option exercisable on the groups US dollar convertible bond see note 5 and the second related to a put option whose value was based on an underlying interest differential between sterling xed and oating interest rates.
74 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair value of financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to its fair value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2007 and 2006.
The carrying amounts are included in the group balance sheet under the indicated headings.
The fair value of the financial instruments are the amounts at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale.
In particular, the fair values of listed investments were estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The carrying amount of the short-term deposits and investments approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the investments held.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable.
The fair value of the groups bonds, debentures, notes, finance leases and other long-term borrowings has been estimated on the basis of quoted market prices for the same or similar issues with the same maturities where they existed, and on calculations of the present value of future cash ows using the appropriate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, where market prices of similar issues did not exist.
The fair value of the groups outstanding swaps and foreign exchange contracts where the estimated amounts, calculated using discounted cash ow models, that the group would receive or pay in order to terminate such contracts in an arms length transaction taking into account market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance sheet date.
Carrying amount Fair value 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Non-derivatives: Financial liabilities Listed bonds, debentures and notes 6,249 7,140 7,059 7,946 Finance leases 567 845 601 885 Other loans and borrowings 2,064 1,950 2,061 1,976 Financial liabilities The following tables set out the exposure of financial liabilities to market pricing and interest cash ow risk and currency risk.
The maturity prole of financial liabilities reects the contractual repricing dates.
2007 Current and Adjusted nonListed listed Adjusted current Current and bonds, Effect of bonds, Effect of Adjusted Other loans Effect of other loans trade and nondebentures hedging debentures Finance hedging finance and hedging and other current a a a b c and notes and interest and notes leases and interest leases borrowings and interest borrowings payables provisions m m m m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 1,617 4,085 5,702 110 110 152 7 145 Euro 768 768 US dollar 3,563 3,563 Total xed rate interest financial liabilities 5,948 246 5,702 110 110 152 7 145 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 301 691 992 302 5 297 990 730 1,720 Euro 155 155 917 772 145 Other 5 5 Total oating rate interest financial liabilities 301 691 992 457 5 452 1,912 42 1,870 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 6,249 445 6,694 567 5 562 2,064 49 2,015 Non interest bearing financial liabilities Pound sterling 4,291 272 Euro 856 9 US dollar 178 8 Other 107 Total 6,249 445 6,694 567 5 562 2,064 49 2,015 5,432 289 Maturity prole of interest bearing financial liabilities based on contractual repricing dates Less than one year 843 149 992 457 5 452 1,916 42 1,874 Between one and two years 147 7 140 Between two and three years 108 108 1 1 Between three and four years 2,283 227 2,510 Between four and five years Greater than five years 3,015 177 3,192 110 110 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 6,249 445 6,694 567 5 562 2,064 49 2,015 Weighted average effective xed interest rates %% %% %% Pound sterling 7.3 9.1 10.4 10.4 10.2 10.2 Euro 7.5 US dollar 8.6 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest and fair value adjustments for hedged risk recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 1,544 million of current and 590 million of non current trade and other payables which relate to non financial liabilities.
c The carrying amount excludes 36 million of non current provisions which relate to non financial liabilities.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 75 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued 2006 Current and Adjusted nonListed listed Adjusted current Current and bonds, Effect of bonds, Effect of Adjusted Other loans Effect of other loans trade and nondebentures hedging debentures Finance hedging finance and hedging and other current a a a b c and notes and interest and notes leases and interest leases borrowings and interest borrowings payables provisions m m m m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 2,022 4,077 6,099 108 108 240 240 Euro 790 790 US dollar 4,037 4,037 Total xed rate interest financial liabilities 6,849 750 6,099 108 108 240 240 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 291 691 982 568 9 559 1,273 426 1,699 Euro 169 169 371 371 US dollar 66 66 Total oating rate interest financial liabilities 291 691 982 737 9 728 1,710 11 1,699 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 7,140 59 7,081 845 9 836 1,950 11 1,939 Non interest bearing financial liabilities Pound sterling 4,051 298 Euro 1,053 US dollar 402 Other 82 Total 7,140 59 7,081 845 9 836 1,950 11 1,939 5,588 298 Maturity prole of interest bearing financial liabilities based on contractual repricing dates Less than one year 700 682 1,382 737 9 728 1,810 11 1,799 Between one and two years 624 624 Between two and three years 140 140 Between three and four years 120 120 Between four and five years 2,503 7 2,510 Greater than five years 3,193 4 3,189 108 108 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 7,140 59 7,081 845 9 836 1,950 11 1,939 Weighted average effective xed interest rates %% %% %% Pound sterling 7.3 8.8 10.4 10.4 9.8 9.8 Euro 7.6 US dollar 8.8 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest and fair value adjustments for hedged risk recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 1,641 million of current and 485 million of non current trade and other payables which relate to non financial liabilities.
c The carrying amount excludes 9 million of current and 24 million of non current provisions which relate to non financial liabilities.
The oating rate financial liabilities bear interest rates xed in advance for periods ranging from one day to one year by reference to LIBOR.
76 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Financial assets The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets to market pricing and interest cash ow risk and currency risk.
The maturity prole of financial assets reects the contractual repricing dates.
2007 Effect of Adjusted Effect of Adjusted cash Trade and Current hedging current Non current Cash and cash hedging and cash other a a b investments and interest investments investments equivalents and interest equivalents receivables m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 3 3 Total xed rate financial assets 3 3 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 670 670 18,731 Euro 1 188 188 US dollar 156 106 106 10 Other 94 94 1 Total oating rate financial assets 157 1,058 1,058 18,742 Total interest bearing financial assets 3 3 157 1,058 1,058 18,742 Non interest bearing financial assets Pound sterling 76 2,393 Euro 393 US dollar 9 302 Other 4 63 Total non interest bearing financial assets 89 3,151 Total 3 3 246 1,058 1,058 21,893 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 922 million of current and 523 million of non current trade and other receivables which relate to non-financial assets.
2006 Effect of Adjusted Effect of Adjusted cash Trade and Current hedging current Non current Cash and cash hedging and cash other a a b investments and interest investments investments equivalents and interest equivalents receivables m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 3 3 19 19 Euro 6 6 Total xed rate financial assets 3 3 25 25 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 13 342 355 1,104 422 1,526 18,161 Euro 67 215 215 197 US dollar 348 348 226 522 422 100 407 Other 32 76 76 49 Total oating rate financial assets 361 6 355 325 1,917 1,917 18,814 Total interest bearing financial assets 364 6 358 325 1,942 1,942 18,814 Non interest bearing financial assets Pound sterling 67 2,218 Euro 1 647 US dollar 2 269 Other 2 74 Total non interest bearing financial assets 72 3,208 Total 364 6 358 397 1,942 1,942 22,022 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 686 million of current and 305 million of non current trade and other receivables which relate to non-financial assets.
The maturity prole of interest bearing financial assets based on contractual repricing dates is less than one year.
The oating rate financial assets bear interest rate in their respective currencies, xed in advance for periods ranging from one day to one year by reference to LIBOR quoted rates.
Additional financial instrument disclosures required under UK GAAP for the 2005 financial year The following information is provided in accordance with the requirements of FRS 13, Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures.
The financial information excludes all of the groups short-term receivables and payables.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 77 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Financial assets held for trading 2005 m Net gain included in profit and loss account 18 The net gain was derived from government bonds, commercial paper and similar debt instruments.
The average fair value of financial assets held during the year ended 31 March 2005 did not differ materially from the year end position.
Hedges Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
Unrecognised and deferred gains and losses on instruments used for hedging and those recognised in the year ended 31 March 2005 are as follows: 2005 Gains Losses m m Gains and losses: a recognised in the year but arising in previous years 124 59 unrecognised at the balance sheet date 47 799 a carried forward in the year end balance sheet, pending recognition in the profit and loss account expected to be recognised in the following year: 545 165 unrecognised at balance sheet date 36 51 a carried forward in the year end balance sheet, pending recognition in the profit and loss account 136 39 a Excluding gains and losses on hedges accounted for by adjusting the carrying amount of a fixed asset.
Post balance sheet events In April 2007, we announced a new structure that will deliver faster, more resilient and cost effective services to customers wherever they are.
With effect from 1 July 2007, BT Design will be responsible for the design and development of the platforms, systems and processes, which will support our services: BT Operate will be responsible for their deployment and operation.
Around 20,000 employees from design, operations, IT and networks will move into these new units.
We estimate that the reorganisation and transformation activities will result in restructuring costs of around 450 million which is expected to generate a payback within two to three years.
These activities will include developing new processes and systems, re-skilling and leaver costs which will be accommodated within existing policies and by voluntary means.
We expect the majority of these costs to be incurred in the 2008 financial year and to be classied as a specic item in our 2008 results.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles The groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS, which differ in certain respects from those applicable in the United States.
For BT there are no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and IFRS as published by the IASB.
I Differences between IFRS and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP The following are the main differences between IFRS and US GAAP which are relevant to the groups consolidated financial statements.
a Sale and leaseback of properties Under IFRS, the sale of BTs property portfolio in 2001 is treated as a disposal and the vast majority of the subsequent leaseback is an operating lease.
Under US GAAP as BT has a continuing interest in the properties, these properties are recorded on the balance sheet at their net book value, a leasing obligation is recognised and the gain on disposal is deferred until the properties are sold and vacated by BT and the corresponding lease obligation is terminated.
Rental payments made by BT are reversed and replaced by a finance lease interest and a depreciation charge.
78 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued b Pensions Under IFRS, the group accounts for its pension benefit plans according to IAS 19 Employee Benets.
Surpluses and deficits of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are included in the group balance sheet at their fair values and all movements in these balances are reected in the income statement, except for those actuarial gains and losses which are reected in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The over or under funded status of the dened benefit plan is recorded as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 158 Employers Accounting for Dened benefit Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No 87, 88, 106 and 132 R FAS 158, when a pension plan had an accumulated benefit obligation which exceeded the fair value of the plan assets, FAS 87 required the unfunded amount to be recognised as a minimum liability in the balance sheet under US GAAP.
The offset to the liability was recorded as an intangible asset up to the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost, and thereafter directly in other comprehensive income.
The actuarial gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income were transferred to net income over the average remaining service period if certain thresholds were met.
FAS 158 requires an employer to recognise the over or under funded status of a dened benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability and to recognise changes in that funded status in other comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur.
Because the funded status of benefit plans are now fully recognised, a minimum liability is no longer recognised.
Retrospective application of FAS 158 is not permitted and upon adoption of FAS 158, the recognition of the over or under funded status of the groups dened benefit pension plans is generally consistent with IAS 19.
Differences in recognition rules for actuarial gains and losses will continue to give rise to differences in periodic pension expense as measured under IFRS and US GAAP.
The group has adopted FAS 158 in full with effect from 31 March 2007. c Capitalisation of interest Under IFRS, the group has chosen not to capitalise interest.
Under US GAAP, the estimated amount of interest incurred whilst constructing major capital projects is included in property, plant and equipment, and depreciated over the lives of the related assets.
The amount of interest capitalised is determined by reference to the average interest rates on outstanding borrowings.
The capitalised interest is depreciated over a period of 5 to 27 years determined by the nature of the related asset.
d Financial instruments The group exercised the exemption available under IFRS 1 to adopt IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 April 2005.
The 2005 comparative period is therefore presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP, investments are held on the balance sheet at historical cost.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedges are not recognised until the exposure being hedged is recognised.
Certain derivative financial instruments which qualify for hedge accounting under UK GAAP do not qualify or were not designated as hedges under US GAAP.
From 1 April 2005 the group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 which gave rise to differences in accounting treatments applied under US GAAP SFAS No 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
On adoption of IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments and the fair value of the hedged risks, where a hedged item is in a fair value hedge, were recognised as a one time transition adjustment to equity and resulted in a transitional difference between US GAAP and IFRS.
Under IFRS, certain cash ow hedges result in a hedged non-financial asset or liability being adjusted from the equity reserve for the applicable hedged amount.
US GAAP does not allow the amounts taken to equity to be transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The amounts remain in equity and are recognised in earnings as the non-financial asset is depreciated or disposed.
The group did not apply hedge accounting under US GAAP for certain items designated as hedges under IFRS.
As a result, certain gains or losses on derivatives held in the cash ow reserve or translation reserve are credited or charged to the income statement under US GAAP.
In addition, under IFRS, the hedged risk associated with a hedged item is fair valued where the item has been designated in a fair value hedge.
As hedge accounting has not been claimed for those items under US GAAP, this fair value adjustment will not be reected.
These differences will reverse as the derivatives or hedged items mature, are sold or expire.
The fair value and book value of derivative instruments as at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 is disclosed in note 33.
IFRS prescribes four investment categories, namely held for trading, available-for-sale, loans and receivables and held to maturity.
US GAAP prescribes only three categories, namely held for trading, available-for-sale and held to maturity.
Whilst the held for trading and available-for-sale categories are similar under both GAAPs, items held in loans and receivables under IFRS are generally classied as held to maturity under US GAAP.
e Foreign exchange Under US GAAP, on the sale of a foreign enterprise, foreign exchange differences within the cumulative translation adjustment CTA are included in net income in arriving at a gain or loss on disposal.
Although IFRS also requires inclusion of the cumulative translation differences held in reserves as part of the calculation of gains or losses on disposal, they were reset to zero on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004. f Deferred taxation Under both IFRS and US GAAP, provision for deferred income tax is required on a full provision basis in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and SFAS No.
Under IFRS, deferred tax is recorded for temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets not recognised are disclosed in note 20.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 79 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued Under US GAAP deferred taxes are recorded on all temporary differences and a valuation allowance is established in respect of those deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that some portion will remain unrealised.
Deferred tax adjustments in the IFRS to US GAAP reconciliation are primarily the result of the deferred tax impact of the other US GAAP adjustments made in the reconciliation.
In addition, IFRS and US GAAP adopt different methods for recognising deferred tax on share based payments.
Under FAS 123 R, deferred tax assets are recognised over the service period based on the compensation charge.
Any realised tax deductions which exceed the related compensation expense is recognised in additional paid in capital APIC.
These benets are pooled and can be used to offset shortfalls in deductions related to other share awards.
a At 31 March 2007, total deferred tax liabilities were 1,447 million 2006: 1,291 million primarily in respect of accelerated capital allowances and total deferred tax assets were 117 million 2006: 1,132 million, primarily in respect of pension obligations.
The total valuation allowance recognised for deferred tax assets was as follows: Movement 2007 2006 in year m m m Capital losses 5,279 5,493 214 Operating losses not utilised 741 775 34 Other 313 271 42 Total 6,333 6,539 206 a Opening retained earnings and shareholders equity have been restated to correct a deferred tax valuation allowance of 320 million related to the groups property, sale and leaseback transaction in 2001.
The adjustment has the effect of increasing US GAAP deferred tax assets and retained earnings by 320 million.
The adjustment did not have a material impact on US GAAP net income or earnings per share for any of the years presented.
g Impairment of property, plant and equipment Certain network assets previously impaired did not meet the US GAAP criteria for impairment under SFAS No.
144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
US GAAP requires that an entity assess whether impairment has occurred based on the undiscounted future cash ows.
An impairment exists if the sum of these cash ows is less than the carrying amount of the assets.
The impairment loss recognised in the income statement is based on the assets fair value, being either market value or the sum of discounted future cash ows.
The assets that were not impaired under US GAAP are continuing to be depreciated over their remaining useful lives.
h Revenue Under IFRS, long-term contracts to design, build and operate software solutions are accounted for under IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, under which revenue is recognised as earned over the contract period.
Under US GAAP certain of these contracts are accounted for as multiple element arrangements under EITF 00-21 and SOP 97-2 Software Revenue Recognition.
As vendor specic objective evidence to support the fair value of the separate elements to be delivered is unavailable, revenue of 214 million under certain contracts is deferred in the 2007 financial year 2006: 109 million, 2005: 162 million.
There was no impact on net income due to the deferral of costs on these contracts.
Total deferred revenue and costs recorded under US GAAP at 31 March 2007 was 562 million 2006: 348 million.
Under IFRS, IAS 18 Revenue connection and installation services revenue is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Under US GAAP, SAB 104 Revenue Recognition such revenues are recognised over the estimated customer life and the costs directly associated with the revenue are deferred.
Accordingly, an adjustment has been recognised for the first time in the 2007 financial year in respect of Openreach products which have a significant connection and installation services charge.
i Share-based payments Under IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, share options are fair valued at their grant date and the cost is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
The group adopted SFAS No.
123 revised 2004 Share-Based Payment with effect from 1 April 2005 using the modied prospective transition method.
Under FAS 123 R, share based payments to employees are required to be measured based on their grant date fair value with limited exceptions and recognised over the related service period.
For periods prior to 1 April 2005, the group accounted for share-based payments under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25 using the intrinsic value method.
The results for prior periods have not been restated.
Under US GAAP the fair value of the Deferred Bonus Plan award is spread over the three year vesting period, but under IFRS the fair value of awards is spread over the performance period, which is four years.
For the 2007 financial year, the compensation expense for all types of share based payment arrangements was 91 million 2006: 77 million.
At 31 March 2007 the group had approximately 106 million 2006: 121 million of total unrecognised compensation expense related to non vested share-based compensation arrangements, of which 51 million 2006: 86 million relates to share option schemes.
The total cost is expected to be recognised over a weighted average period of 1.9 years 2006: 2.0 years, and 2.1 years 2006: 2.1 years for share option schemes.
The tax benefit realised from share options exercised and share awards vested during the year was approximately 26 million 2006: 9 million.
Cash proceeds received from the exercise of share options during the year was 123 million 2006: 13 million.
80 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued j Goodwill Under UK GAAP, the group wrote off goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures on acquisition prior to 1 April 1998 against retained earnings.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed after 1 April 1998 was capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
Following transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but tested annually for impairment and the amount of goodwill previously recorded at the transition date was carried forward under IFRS.
Under US GAAP up to 31 March 2002, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over its useful life.
142 Goodwill and other intangible assets on 1 April 2002 and goodwill is no longer amortised but tested annually for impairment.
k Property rationalisation provision In the 2003 financial year, a provision in connection with the rationalisation of the groups London ofce property portfolio was recorded.
Under US GAAP, in accordance with SFAS No.
146, Accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities, these costs are not recognised until the group fully exits and therefore ceases to use the affected properties.
All these properties were exited by 31 December 2004. l Contingent consideration Under IFRS contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions is recorded when the outcome of the contingency is considered more likely than not.
Under US GAAP the consideration is recorded when the contingent event has occurred.
m Sale of investments and group undertakings In November 2001, the group sold its O2 business to mmO2 plc for 18,489 million.
The transaction was recorded as a sale.
On transition to IFRS, this amount remained an asset of the group.
Under US GAAP, the carrying value of the investment is recognised as a dividend distribution to the groups parent at the time of the transaction.
n Termination benets Under US GAAP, the fair value of termination benets for employees who are to be retained beyond their minimum contractual retention period is recognised on a straight line basis over the future service period.
Under IFRS these costs are recognised when the employees agree to leave the group.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 81 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued II Net income and shareholders equity reconciliation statements The following statements summarise the material estimated adjustments, gross of their tax effect, which reconcile net income and total equity from that reported under IFRS to that which would have been reported had US GAAP been applied.
Net income 2007 2006 2005 Year ended 31 March Note m m m profit for the year in accordance with IFRS 3,543 2,243 2,512 profit loss attributable to minority interests 2 1 1 profit attributable to equity shareholders in accordance with IFRS 3,541 2,242 2,513 Adjustment for: Sale and leaseback of properties a 29 18 21 Pension costs b 195 220 333 Capitalisation of interest c 5 16 13 Financial instruments d 175 436 415 Foreign exchange e 39 Deferred taxation f 33 Impairment of property, plant and equipment g 16 38 24 Revenue h 82 Share based payments i 2 1 13 Property rationalisation provision k 5 Termination benets n 20 3,391 1,555 1,740 Tax effect of US GAAP adjustments 92 203 240 Net income as adjusted for US GAAP 3,483 1,758 1,980 2006 a Shareholders equity 2007 restated At 31 March m m Total equity under IFRS 22,364 20,080 Attributable to minority interest 34 52 Total parent shareholders equity under IFRS 22,330 20,028 Adjustment for: Sale and leaseback of properties a 1,095 1,067 Pension costs b 1,228 Capitalisation of interest c 151 164 Financial instruments d 7 3 Deferred taxation f 74 Impairment of property, plant and equipment g 22 40 Revenue h 82 Goodwill j 123 114 Sale of investments and group undertakings m 18,489 18,489 2,879 435 Tax effect of US GAAP adjustments 310 581 Shareholders equity as adjusted for US GAAP 3,189 146 a Restatement of deferred tax valuation allowance as set out in note f on page 80.
Reclassications The following reclassications would need to be made in addition to those disclosed elsewhere and in the above reconciliation of shareholders equity in order to present amounts that are in accordance with US GAAP.
r Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables would be 562 million higher 2006: 348 million higher see note h : r A finance lease obligation of 2,316 million higher 2006: 2,325 million higher and property, plant and equipment of 669 million higher 2006: 780 million higher would be shown and trade and other payables would be 552 million lower 2006: 478 million lower in respect of the property sale and finance leaseback transaction as described in note a : r Goodwill would be 7 million lower 2006: 10 million lower, other debtors would be 1 million lower 2006: 1 million lower, current liabilities would be the same 2006: 2 million lower and long term borrowings would be 1 million lower 2006: 12 million lower in respect of financial instruments: r Prior to the adoption of FAS 158 a pension intangible asset was recognised separately from retirement benefit obligations.
Due to the adoption of FAS 158 on 31 March 2007 there is no reclassication required in the current year 2006: 31 million : r As outlined in note l, contingent consideration on acquisitions of 15 million 2006: 7 million was not recognised for US GAAP.
This results in goodwill and other payables being lower by 15 million 2006: 7 million : and r The cumulative impact of the above adjustment is: r Current assets 649 million higher 2006: 337 million higher.
r Non-current assets 17,546 million lower 2006: 16,999 million lower.
r Current liabilities 164 million higher 2006: 137 million higher.
r Non-current liabilities 2,080 million higher 2006: 3,356 million higher.
82 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued III Consolidated statements of cash ows The group cash ow statements are presented in accordance with IAS 7.
The statements prepared under IAS 7 present substantially the same information as that required under SFAS No.
If the cash ow statement had been prepared in accordance with SFAS No.
95, the net movement in cash and cash equivalents would have been higher by 130 million 2006: 179 million higher, 2005: unchanged.
This is because under IAS 7, bank overdrafts are classied as a movement in cash and cash equivalents, while under US GAAP, the movements in bank overdrafts are classied as a nancing activity.
IV Pension costs The net liabilities of the BTPS represent substantially all of the groups pensions obligations.
The pension cost determined under FAS 87 was calculated by reference to an expected long-term rate of return on scheme assets of 6.5% 2006: 7.1%, 2005: 7.3%.
The components of the net periodic pension cost for the BTPS comprised: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Service cost 612 538 507 Interest cost 1,787 1,784 1,745 Expected return on scheme assets 2,206 2,042 1,897 Amortisation of prior service costs 24 24 24 Amortisation of loss 150 215 263 Net periodic pension cost under US GAAP 367 519 642 The incremental effects of adopting the provisions of FAS 158 on the groups balance sheet at 31 March 2007, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, are presented in the following table.
The adoption of FAS 158 had no effect on the groups consolidated income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, and will not affect the groups US GAAP net income in future periods.
Prior to Effect of adoption Adoption As reported m m m Intangible assets 1 1 Dened benefit pension plan deficit 2,145 1,852 293 Deferred taxes 644 556 88 Shareholders equity 1,500 1,295 205 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,851 1,851 Deferred taxes 556 556 Accumulated other comprehensive income net of deferred tax 1,295 1,295 The effect on shareholders equity retained earnings as a result of adopting the change in measurement date is 92 million.
This effect is included in the projected benefit obligation in excess of scheme assets prior to the transition adjustments to reect the fully funded status of the plan.
The table below shows the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 March 2007 that have not yet been recognised as components of the pension benets expense in the income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
m Net actuarial gain 1,852 Prior service cost 1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 83 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued The amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 March 2007 which are expected to be recognised as components of the pension benets expense for the year ended 31 March 2008 in the income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP are shown below.
m Net actuarial gain 154 Prior service cost 1 2007 2006 m m Changes in benefit obligation benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 38,730 34,336 Service cost 612 538 Interest cost 1,787 1,783 Employee contributions 18 21 Actuarial movement 1,732 3,438 Adjustment for change in measurement date 637 Benets paid or payable 1,472 1,385 Translation 1 benefit obligation at the end of the year 38,580 38,730 The accumulated benefit obligation at 31 March 2007 was 37,703 million 2006: 37,850 million 2007 2006 m m Changes in scheme assets Fair value of scheme assets at the beginning of the year 34,293 29,169 Actual return on scheme assets 3,978 6,039 Employer contributions 919 450 Employee contributions 18 21 Adjustment for change in measurement date 551 Benets paid or payable 1,472 1,385 Translation 1 Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 38,287 34,293 2007 2006 m m Reconciliation of funded status under US GAAP Projected benefit obligation in excess of scheme assets 293 4,437 Unrecognised prior service costs 31 Other unrecognised net actuarial losses 1,802 Net minimum additional pension liability 953 Net amount recognised under US GAAP 293 3,557 The benefit obligation and pension cost for the BTPS were determined using the following assumptions at 1 January 2006 and 1 January 2005.
For the current financial year the group has early adopted the change in measurement date provisions of FAS 158, and have changed the measurement date to the year end date of 31 March 2007.
The current year assumptions are disclosed in Note 28.
2006 2005 per annum per annum % % Discount rate 4.7 5.3 Rate of future pay increases 3.4 3.6 Rate of future pension increases 2.6 2.6 Contributions expected to be paid to the BTPS during the 2008 financial year are estimated at 748 million, including 320 million of deficiency contributions.
Estimated future benefit payments are as follows: m Year ending 31 March 2008 1,526 Year ending 31 March 2009 1,591 Year ending 31 March 2010 1,671 Year ending 31 March 2011 1,768 Year ending 31 March 2012 1,862 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2017 10,748 84 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued Asset allocation The Trustees of the BTPS approve the target asset allocation as well as deviation limits.
The objective of the investment activities is to maximise investment returns within an acceptable level of risk, taking into consideration the liabilities of the BTPS.
For the 2007 financial year the group has early adopted the change in measurement date provisions of FAS 158, and has changed the measurement date to the year end date of 31 March 2007.
Therefore the 2007 financial year disclosure for each major category of plan assets and the percentage of the fair value of total plan assets is disclosed in note 28.
The prior year disclosures are presented below: Period ended 31 December 2005 Fair value Target bn % % Equities 20.3 59 58 Fixed interest bonds 5.4 16 16 Index linked securities 3.2 9 9 Property 4.2 12 12 Cash & other 1.2 4 5 34.3 100 100 The assumption for the expected return on scheme assets is a weighted average based on an assumed expected return for each asset class and the proportions held for each asset class at the beginning of the year.
The expected returns on bonds are based on the gross redemption yields at the start of the year.
Expected returns on equities and property are based on a combination of an estimate of the risk premium above, yields on government bonds and consensus economic forecasts on future returns.
The expected return of 7.1% per annum used for the calculation of pension costs for the year ended 31 March 2006 is consistent with that adopted for IAS 19.
V Income statement in US GAAP format The group income statements on page 37 comply with IFRS and the directors believe they are in the most appropriate format for shareholders to understand the results of our business.
We believe that it is important to show our results before deducting specic items because these predominantly relate to items which are significant, one-off or unusual in nature.
For SEC reporting purposes this presentation may be considered non GAAP and therefore the group has also prepared the following income statement.
The numbers disclosed in the following income statement are prepared under IFRS.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Revenue 20,223 19,514 18,429 Operating expenses: Payroll costs 4,497 4,286 3,928 Depreciation and amortisation 2,920 2,884 2,844 Payments to telecommunication operators 4,162 4,045 3,725 Other operating expenses 6,329 6,023 5,483 Total operating expenses 17,908 17,238 15,980 Net operating income 2,315 2,276 2,449 Other income, net 255 228 551 Net interest income 886 515 368 Income taxes 72 792 817 Equity in earnings losses of investees 15 16 39 Minority interests 2 1 1 Net income 3,541 2,242 2,513 VI Additional US GAAP information Intangible asset amortisation The total amortisation charge expected under US GAAP in the 2008 financial year is 589 million.
As a consequence of the pattern of amortisation applied this annual charge will decrease in each of the following four years to be approximately 53 million for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 85 35.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles continued US GAAP developments In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
155 Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No.
133 and 140 FAS 155, that amends SFAS No.
133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities FAS 133, and SFAS No.
140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities FAS 140.
This Statement resolves issues addressed in FAS 133 Implementation Issue No.
D1, Application of Statement 133 to beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets.
The Statement permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation.
Additionally it claries which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of FAS 133.
FAS 155 also establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitised financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation.
It claries that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives.
Also FAS 155 amends FAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument.
FAS 155 is effective for BT for all financial instruments acquired or issued after 31 March 2007.
The group does not expect this to have a material impact on the groups financial statements.
In March 2006 the FASB issued SFAS No.
156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets: an amendment of FASB Statement No.
140 FAS 156 that amends FAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, with respect to the accounting for separately recognised servicing assets and servicing liabilities.
FAS 156 is effective for BT on 1 April 2007.
The group does not anticipate that the adoption of this new statement at the required effective date will have a significant effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash ows.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No 157, Fair Value Measurements FAS 157.
FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
The provisions of this standard apply to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.
FAS 157 applies for the groups financial year beginning 1 April 2008.
The group is currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of FAS 157 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No.
159, The Fair Value option for financial assets and financial liabilities FAS 159.
FAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure, on an item by item basis, specified financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are required to be reported in earnings at each reporting date.
FAS 159 is effective for the 2009 financial year, the provisions of which are required to be applied prospectively.
The group is currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of FAS 159 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Intepretation of FASB Statement No 109 FIN 48.
FIN 48 requires tax benets from uncertain positions to be recognised only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable based on its technical merits.
The intepretation also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures, including discussion of reasonably possible changes that might occur in unrecognised tax benets over the next 12 months, a description of open tax years by major jurisdiction, and a roll-forward of all unrecognised tax benets.
FIN 48 applies for the groups financial year beginning 1 April 2007.
The group is currently in the process of quantifying the impact, if any, on the consolidated financial statements.
In September 2006, the FASB ratied Emerging Issues Task Force No 06-01 Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment Necessary for an End-Customer to Receive Service from the Service Provider EITF 06-01.
This guidance requires the application of EITF 01-09 Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Service providers end customer EITF 01-09, when consideration is given to a reseller or manfuacturer for benefit to the service providers end customer.
EITF 01-09 requires the consideration given to be recorded as a liability at the time of the sale of the equipment and, also, provides guidance for the classication of the expense.
EITF 06-01 is effective for the groups financial year beginning 1 April 2008.
86 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
