Accounting policies General information On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company domiciled in operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet the United Kingdom and incorporated in England, under the Companies date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its registered office is Cayzer House, rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
The ordinary shares of the company differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the New Zealand Exchange.
groups foreign exchange translation reserve.
Such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because operation is sold.
that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Caledonia operates.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and These financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied Investments in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendments delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market to IAS 1 on capital disclosures.
concerned, and are initially measured at cost, excluding transaction costs.
Investments held as part of the groups business of investing in financial IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives.
assets are designated as measured at fair value through profit and loss in both the consolidated financial statements and the company financial IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
Other investments held by subsidiaries are designated as IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements.
available for sale in the consolidated financial statements.
Other investments in subsidiaries held by the company are accounted for at cost The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and in the financial statements of the company.
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group except for additional disclosures in capital Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss or as and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for available for sale are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the value of investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, including foreign IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury share transactions was adopted in exchange movements, are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For the year and has resulted in a change in the accounting policy for available for sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair share-based payments.
The interpretation provides additional guidance, value are recognised directly in equity until the investment is disposed of where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to equity instruments or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss of its parent as consideration for the services provided to the subsidiary, previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the IFRIC 11 requires the subsidiary to recognise the expense as an equity period.
If, in the subsequent period, the fair value of the available for sale settled share-based payment transaction, with a corresponding increase investments, for which impairment was previously recognised, increases recognised in equity representing a contribution from the parent.
in value, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Significant accounting policies Quoted investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price when a Basis of accounting bid price is not available.
Unquoted investments are valued using recognised These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with valuation methodologies, based on the International Private Equity and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in Venture Capital Guidelines, which reflect the amount for which an asset the EU and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties on an arms of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRS comprise accounting standards issued by the length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is detailed on page 57. International Accounting Standards Board IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting The full amount of distributions from investment limited partnerships is Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
Any surplus distributions after repaying any partners loans are set off against previously recognised net income before Caledonia is an investment trust company.
However, because it holds being treated as realised gains.
majority stakes and therefore has the power to control, it is required to prepare group accounts that consolidate the results of such investments.
Income In order to present information that is comparable with other investment Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue when the trust companies, Caledonia also publishes financial statements of the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, normally the company, which include investments in subsidiaries regarded as part ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends of the companys investing business at fair value.
receivable on or before the period end are treated as revenue for the period.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and properties.
The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity shares are The principal accounting policies are set out below.
recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the Comparatives financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to changes in presentation in the current year.
In particular, the comparatives For trading subsidiaries, revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of have been adjusted to take into account the reclassification of money goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after market gains, treasury interest and exchange movements as finance costs.
eliminating sales within the group.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Sales of services are recognised in Foreign currency translation the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated The companys share of net income receivable by investment limited to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the partnerships is recognised as revenue for the period on an accrual basis.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities Expenses that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Expenses of acquisition translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of an investment designated as held at fair value through profit or loss or of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in expenses of an aborted acquisition of an investment are presented as foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to the transaction costs and expenses of disposal of an investment are deducted functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair from the disposal proceeds.
Taxation Assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are measured using The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and their functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic deferred tax.
environment in which they operate.
34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
National Insurance on share option scheme gains and deferred bonus awards Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement National Insurance contributions payable on the exercise of certain because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or employee share options at the date of exercise and deferred bonus awards deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never at the date of call have been charged as an expense spread over the taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using respective vesting periods.
The charge is based on the difference between tax rates that were applicable at the balance sheet date.
the market value of the underlying shares at the balance sheet date and the exercise price for share options or nil for deferred bonus awards and Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences calculated at the latest enacted National Insurance contributions rate.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of Capital reserve taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
The company maintains a capital reserve, which it is prohibited from Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences distributing by virtue of its articles of association.
The following items are and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not Gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value of liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to the capital sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that transactions.
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to Property, plant and equipment be recovered.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Dividend distribution depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are appropriately Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
For interim or properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they are paid and, for the straight-line method, on the following bases: final dividends, the date on which they are approved in general meeting.
Employee benefits Property 25-40 years Pension schemes Plant 10-15 years Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged Equipment 3-8 years as an expense as they fall due.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with the relevant lease.
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the They are recognised outside of the income statement and are presented in asset and is recognised in the income statement.
the statement of recognised income and expense.
Investment property Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the balance sheet date.
the average period until the benefits become vested.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet property are included in the income statement for the period in which represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted they arise.
for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of Intangible assets scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships future contributions to the plan.
acquired by the group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation Profit-sharing and bonus plans and impairment losses.
Where such items are not deemed to have an The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and indefinite life, amortisation is expensed on a straight-line basis over their profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit estimated useful lives.
attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Goodwill group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable Share-based payments assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least of grant and the fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equity settled share-based payment or loss on disposal.
transaction expense with a corresponding increase recognised in equity representing a contribution from the parent.
Impairment of assets An employee share trust is used for distributing option shares and deferred At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its bonus awards to employees under Caledonias share remuneration tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication schemes.
The trustee purchases shares with money lent interest free by that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication Caledonia and transfers shares to participating employees on receipt of the exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the requisite consideration or calling of awards.
assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are considered to be and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, intangible performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
The transactions of the assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately employee share trust are included in the separate financial statements of identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
the parent company and, following the requirements of SIC 12, in the consolidated financial statements as if they arose in that company.
Own Inventories shares held by the employee share trust as at the balance sheet date are Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 35 Accounting policies present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out Segment reporting method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all A segment is a distinguishable component of the group that is engaged estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, either in providing products or services business segment, or in providing selling and distribution.
products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are Properties that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business or are different from those of other segments.
being developed for future sale are classified as inventories.
Basis of consolidation Receivables Subsidiaries Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the company Cash and cash equivalents has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes On acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in value.
of a subsidiary are measured at fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net Borrowings assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The effective in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of interest method allocates the interest expense over the life of the instrument the parent.
so as to reflect a constant return on the carrying amount of the liability.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are Borrowings include a component of the companys deferred ordinary included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date shares and preference shares in subsidiaries held by third parties that fall of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
under the definition of financial liabilities under IAS 32.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of Provisions subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a by the group.
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the on consolidation.
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and Associates are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the financial Leasing and operating policy decisions of the investee entity.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its investments held in All other leases are classified as operating leases.
associates are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, the provisions of IAS 28 Investments in Associates do not apply.
Such Lessor investments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they occur.
over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying No other group company held investments in associates.
amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis.
Joint ventures Lessee A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the group at their undertake an economic activity that is the subject of joint control.
fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its interests in joint each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to ventures are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, the the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease provisions of IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures do not apply.
Such interests payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining loss in the period in which they occur.
However, the provisions of IAS 31 do balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
apply to interests in joint ventures held by other companies in the group, as Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a set out below.
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures held by subsidiaries Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
of accounting, except when classified as held for sale.
Interests in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by postShare capital acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the joint ventures, Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the received, net of direct issue costs.
joint ventures in excess of the groups interest in those joint ventures are Where any group company and the Caledonia Investments plc Employee not recognised.
Share Trust purchases the companys equity share capital or the company Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the fair buys shares into treasury, the consideration paid, including any directly values of the identifiable net assets of the joint ventures at the date of attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares are acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable cancelled or transferred.
Where such shares are subsequently transferred, net assets at the date of acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental period of acquisition.
transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
Where a group company transacts with joint ventures of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting in the relevant joint ventures.
Losses may provide evidence of an Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate provision into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
