Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the companys portfolio Earnings multiple is set out below.
The methodology is based on IAS 39 Financial This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple to the Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and the International private earnings of the business being valued.
It is likely to be appropriate for an equity and venture capital valuation guidelines issued by the AFIC, BVCA investment in an established business with an identifiable stream of and EVCA.
continuing earnings that can be considered to be maintainable.
It may also be applicable to companies with negative earnings, if the losses are considered to be temporary and a normalised level of maintainable Basis of valuation earnings can be identified.
Investments are reported at the directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which the directors When using the earnings multiple method, earnings before interest and tax consider that an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, EBIT are normally used, adjusted to a maintainable level and taxed at the willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Generally, the latest full year historical accounts are used unless reliable estimated or forecast results are available.
An appropriate General multiple is applied to these earnings.
Normally the multiple will be the In estimating fair value, we seek to use a methodology that is appropriate average taxed EBIT multiple for a comparable quoted company, the in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment.
weighted average of a number of companies or the relevant sector of the Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period, except FTSE All-Share index.
where a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Given Net assets the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is This methodology is likely to be appropriate for a business whose value applied in exercising judgments and making the necessary estimates.
derives mainly from the underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, such as property holding companies and investment businesses.
Quoted investments Investments quoted in an active market are valued at their bid price on the This methodology may also be appropriate for a business that is not reporting date.
When a bid price is unavailable, the price of the most recent making an adequate return on assets and for which a greater value can be transaction will normally be used.
realised by liquidating the business and selling its assets.
In the context of private equity, it may therefore be appropriate, in certain circumstances, Unquoted investments for valuing investments in loss-making companies and companies making The fair value is estimated as follows: only marginal levels of profit.
The enterprise value is determined using an appropriate valuation The net assets methodology derives an enterprise value using appropriate methodology adjusted for surplus assets, excess or unrecorded liabilities measures to value the assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and and other relevant factors as appropriate.
Any financial instruments ranking ahead of the highest instrument Marketability discount held by the company is deducted from the enterprise value.
The marketability discount relates to an investment rather than to the underlying business and reflects the compensation that willing buyers An appropriate marketability discount is applied to give the net will demand for the risk arising from the lack of marketability.
marketability discount will vary from situation to situation and will The net attributable enterprise value is apportioned between the generally be between 10% and 30%.
relevant financial instruments according to their rankings and allocated Some of the factors that will be considered in determining the to the companys holding in each of the financial instruments, marketability discount are the closeness to a realisation event, the representing their fair values.
investors influence over the timing of realisation and the difficulty For most unquoted investments, the fair value is based on the price and risk of actions required to put the business into a saleable condition.
of recent investment, earnings multiple or net assets valuation methodologies.
Investment funds The fair value of non-equity investment funds is generally estimated from Price of recent investment the latest net asset value provided by the fund manager or the fair value Where the investment being valued was made recently, its cost will of underlying investments adjusted for other net assets or liabilities, or generally provide a good indication of fair value.
Where there has been any contingent assets or liabilities, of the fund.
recent investment in the investee company, the price of that investment will provide a basis of the valuation.
Where the price at which a third party has invested is being considered as the basis of valuation, the background to the transaction will be taken into account to indicate whether or not the price was wholly representative of the fair value at the time.
This methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period after the date of the relevant transaction.
The length of period for a particular investment will depend on the specific circumstances of the case, but a period of one year is usually applied.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 57
