NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES Special business YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you should 10 Purchase of own shares by the Company consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate To consider and if thought fit pass the following resolution as a independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Special Resolution: Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise That the Company be and is hereby authorised, generally and transferred all your shares in Candover Investments plc, please without conditions, for the purposes of section 166 of the forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of its own ordinary shares, transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine, and where such ordinary shares are held as The directors consider that all the proposals to be considered at the treasury shares, the Company may use them for the purpose of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its employee share schemes: provided that: its members as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that a the Company may not buy more than 3,276,306 ordinary shareholders vote in favour of all proposed resolutions as they intend shares, equal to 14.99% of the ordinary shares issued at the to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
date of the 2007 audited financial statements: b the minimum price that the Company may pay for each share NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of is 25p: Candover Investments plc the Company will be held at c the maximum price excluding expenses that the Company Founders Hall, 1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT on Wednesday, may pay for each ordinary share is 5% over the average of the 14th May, 2008 at 12 noon for the following purposes: mid-market price of the ordinary shares, based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days Ordinary business immediately before the day on which the Company buys the ordinary shares: 1 Report and accounts d this authority will last from the date of this Annual General To receive the audited financial statements for the year ended Meeting until the next Annual General Meeting or until 14th 31st December, 2007, together with the reports of the directors August, 2009 if the next Annual General Meeting has not been and the auditors therein.
held by then : and e the Company may agree, before the authority ends, to buy 2 Directors remuneration report ordinary shares even though the purchase is, or may be, To approve the directors remuneration report contained in the completed after the authority ends.
11 Change of name 3 Dividends To consider and if thought fit pass the following resolution as a To declare a final dividend of 40.0p per share on the ordinary Special Resolution: shares in respect of the year ended 31st December, 2007.
That the Companys name be changed from Candover Investments public limited company to Candover Investments plc 4-7 Election and re-election of directors with effect from the date of this Annual General Meeting.
To re-elect the following directors, who are retiring: 4 Mr Antony Hichens: 12 Adoption of Articles of Association 5 Mr Chris Russell.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: To elect the following directors, who were appointed since That: the last annual general meeting in May 2007: a the Articles of Association in the form of the draft produced 6 Lord Jay: to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting 7 Mr Nicholas Jones.
for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the The biographies of Antony Hichens, Chris Russell and exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association: and Lord Jay appear on pages 26 and 27 and the biography of b with effect from 00.01 am on 1st October, 2008, the new Nicholas Jones appears on page 29.
Articles of Association of the Company adopted pursuant to paragraph a of this Resolution be amended by the insertion 8 Re-appointment of auditor of new Article 104 H in the form of the draft produced to the To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP, as auditor.
meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification.
9 Remuneration of auditor To authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
By order of the Board Andrew Moberly Company Secretary 31st March, 2008 70 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Notes 4.
Appointment of proxies through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by utilising the Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the procedures described in the CREST Manual, subject to the right to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting and also for the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
CREST personal purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the members who have appointed a voting service provider s should Companys register of members at 12 noon on 12th May, 2008: or refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will if this Meeting is adjourned, at 12 noon two days prior to the day of be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to rights of any person to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be made, properly authenticated in accordance 2.
Appointment of proxies with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications, and must If you are a member of the Company at the time set out in note 1 contain the information required for such instructions, as described above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it your rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting and you constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the should have received a proxy form.
You can only appoint a proxy instructions given to a previously appointed proxy, must be using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 proxy form.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the If you are not a member of the Company as described in note 1 but timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message information rights, you do not have a right to appoint any proxies by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After under the procedures set out in this Appointment of proxies 12 noon on 12th May, 2008 any change of instructions to proxies section.
Please read the section Nominated persons in note appointed through CREST should be communicated to the 10 below.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but will CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors need to attend the Meeting in order to represent you.
Details of or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make how to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or another person available special procedures in CREST for any particular as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore proxy form.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the the Meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the not the Chairman of the Meeting and give your instructions CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored directly to them.
member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their one share.
To appoint more than one proxy, use the procedures set CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that any such vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in resolution.
If you select the Discretionary option or if no voting the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the indication is given on the proxy form, your proxy will vote or abstain Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter 5.
Appointment of proxy by joint members which is put before the Meeting.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment 3.
Appointment of proxy using the proxy form submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy to is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders vote on each resolution or to withhold their vote.
To appoint a appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the proxy using the proxy form, the form must be: joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
completed and signed: sent or delivered to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: and received by Capita Registrars no later than 12 noon on 12th May, 2008.
In the case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company, stating their capacity e. g. director, secretary.
Any power of attorney or other authority under which the proxy form is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the proxy form.
71 Candover Report and accounts 2007 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 6.
Changing proxy instructions Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the To change your proxy instructions simply submit a new proxy Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies appointment using the methods set out above and set out in the and corporate representatives http: www.
uk for notes to the proxy form.
Note that the cut-off times for receipt of further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample proxy appointments see above also apply in relation to amended form of representation letter to appoint the Chairman of the instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the Meeting as a corporate representative as described in i above.
relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
Issued shares and total voting rights Where you have appointed a proxy using the proxy form contained As at 21st March, 2008 being the last practicable day prior to in this document and would like to change the instruction using the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital another proxy form, please contact Capita Registrars, The comprised 21,856,615 ordinary shares of 25p each.
Each ordinary Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of Company as at 21st March, 2008 is 21,856,615. your entire voting entitlement, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Nominated persons Please also see the notes to the proxy form for further information.
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights 7.
Termination of proxy appointments a Nominated Person : In order to revoke a proxy instruction you will need to inform You may have a right, under an agreement between you and the Company by sending written notice clearly stating your the member of the Company who has nominated you to have intention to revoke your proxy appointment to Capita Registrars, information rights a Relevant Member, to be appointed or The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
In to have someone else appointed as proxy for the Meeting.
the case of a member which is a company, the revocation notice If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Any agreement between you and the Relevant Member to give power of attorney or any other authority under which the instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power voting rights.
or authority must be included with the revocation notice.
Your main point of contact in terms of your investment in the Company remains the Relevant Member or, perhaps, your The revocation notice must be received by Capita Registrars no custodian or broker and you should continue to contact them later than 12 noon on 12th May, 2008. and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to your personal details and your interest in the Company If you attempt to revoke your proxy appointment but the revocation including any administrative matters.
The only exception to this is received after the time specified then, subject to the paragraph is where the Company expressly requests a response from you.
directly below, your proxy appointment will remain valid.
The statements in notes 2 to 7 above concerning the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies do not apply to Appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by Meeting and voting in person.
If you have appointed a proxy and members of the Company.
attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Communication You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of 8.
Corporate representatives S333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 provided in this Notice of In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting or in any related document to communicate with the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that: Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
i if a corporate member has appointed the Chairman of the 12.
Documents on display Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to The following documents will be available for inspection at the vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all the other Companys registered office at 20 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7LN corporate representatives for that member at the Meeting, during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and then, on a poll, these corporate representatives will be English public holidays excepted from 31st March, 2008 until requested to give voting directions to the Chairman and the close of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of that the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Meeting: representative in accordance with those directions: and Copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors of the Company.
ii if more than one corporate representative for the same A copy of the new articles of association of the Company being corporate member attends the Meeting but the corporate proposed pursuant to resolutions 12 a and 12 b, together with member has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting a copy of the existing Articles of Association of the Company as its corporate representative, a designated corporate marked to show the changes being proposed pursuant to representative should be nominated, from those corporate resolutions 12 a and 12 b. representatives who attend, to vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives should give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
72 Candover Report and accounts 2007 APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys 7.
Electronic and web communications Articles of Association Provisions in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions continue to allow communications to members in electronic form contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended and, in addition, they permit the Company to take advantage of to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Examples the new provisions relating to website communications.
include provisions as to the variation of class rights and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general Before the Company can communicate with a member by means meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are of website communication, the relevant member must be asked detailed below.
individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, 2.
Form of resolution and the Company must either have received a positive response The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any or have received no response within a period of 28 days beginning purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or with the date on which the request was sent.
Where the Company extraordinary resolution is also effective.
This provision is being is entitled to communicate by means of a website, the Company amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted been retained under the Companies Act 2006. means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
These provisions have therefore been The Company has not yet decided whether to utilise these new removed from the New Articles.
provisions, but seeks to have the power to do so.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against Companies Act 2006.
The relevant provisions have therefore been directors.
In particular, a company can now indemnify a director amended in the New Articles.
against liability incurred in connection with the activities of any company as trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions applies to associated companies.
The New Articles reflect these in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an extraordinary general wider provisions in the Companies Act 2006. meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Directors fees It is proposed that the maximum aggregate annual sum which may 5.
Votes of members be paid out of the funds of the Company to the Directors by way Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on of fees for their services be increased from 400,000 to 500,000 a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies or such larger amount as the Company may by ordinary resolution are only entitled to vote on a poll and multiple proxies may be determine.
appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Deletion of B share and C share rights In addition, multiple corporate representatives may be appointed.
Following the completion of the return of cash referred to in the The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
circular to shareholders dated 3rd April, 2006 there are no B or C preference shares in issue.
It is proposed that the authorised 6.
Age of directors on appointment share capital be amended so that it is comprised solely of The Current Articles contain a provision referring to a section of ordinary shares of 25p each and that the reference to B shares the Companies Act 1985, now repealed, limiting the age at which and C shares be deleted.
a director can be appointed and requiring reappointment after attaining the age of 70.
This provision has been removed from 11.
Joint holders the New Articles.
In order to make the flow of information more efficient between the Company and its joint shareholders, the Current Articles are being amended to provide that where there are joint shareholders, anything agreed with or specified to the Company by any one joint shareholder will be deemed to have been agreed with or specified to the Company by all the joint shareholders.
73 Candover Report and accounts 2007 APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 12.
Conflicts of interest It is proposed to make a further change to the New Articles, with effect from 1st October, 2008, to cover changes being introduced by the Companies Act 2006 relating to directors conflicts of interest.
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1st October, 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles, as proposed to be altered with effect from 1st October, 2008, give the directors authority to approve such situations and include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to prevent a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
