FORM OF PROXY For use at the Annual General Meeting of Candover Investments plc to be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 14th May, 2008 at Founders Hall, 1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT.
If you wish to vote at the Annual General Meeting but are unable to attend in person you may appoint a proxy or proxies to act on your behalf either by completing this form or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
I We of being a member s of Candover Investments plc, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or see notes 3, 10 and 11 as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting to be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 14th May, 2008 and at any adjournment thereof.
For the appointment of more than one proxy, please refer to notes 10 and 11.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as I we have indicated by marking the appropriate box with an X.
If no indication is given, my our proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion and I we authorise my our proxy to vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the Meeting.
For Against Vote withheld Discretionary Resolution 1 To receive the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December, 2007 Resolution 2 To approve the directors remuneration report Resolution 3 To declare a final dividend of 40.0p per ordinary share Resolution 4 To re-elect Mr Antony Hichens Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr Chris Russell Resolution 6 To elect Lord Jay Resolution 7 To elect Mr Nicholas Jones Resolution 8 Re-appointment of Auditor Resolution 9 Remuneration of Auditor Resolution 10 Purchase of own shares by the Company Resolution 11 Change of name Resolution 12 Adoption of Articles of Association Date Signature see notes 6 and 9 Notes 1.
As a member of the Company you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your 9.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
You can only appoint a proxy using the a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in 2.
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being in person.
If you have appointed a proxy or proxies and attend the Meeting in person, the most senior.
your proxy appointment s will automatically be terminated.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please 3.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but will need to attend the enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to Meeting to represent you.
To appoint as your proxy a person other than the Chairman of which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank or if a number of shares the meeting, insert their full name in the space provided above.
If you sign and return this greater than your actual holding is inserted in such box your proxy will be deemed to be proxy form with no name inserted in the space provided above, the Chairman of the authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued Meeting will be deemed to be your proxy.
Where you appoint as your proxy someone in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that other than the Chairman, you are responsible for ensuring that they attend the Meeting designated account.
and are aware of your voting intentions.
If you wish your proxy to make any comments on 11.
To appoint more than one proxy an additional proxy form s may be obtained by your behalf, you will need to appoint someone other than the Chairman and give them contacting Capita Registrars or you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the the relevant instructions directly.
box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are 4.
To direct your proxy how to vote on the resolutions mark the appropriate box with an X. authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the To abstain from voting on a resolution, select the relevant Vote withheld box.
A vote proxy instruction is one of multiple proxy instructions being given.
All forms must withheld is not a vote in law, which means any such vote will not be counted in the be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If you select the Discretionary option 12.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of your entire voting or if no voting indication is given on the proxy form, your proxy will vote or abstain from entitlement, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she will take precedence.
thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the Meeting.
To appoint a proxy using this form, the form must be: This form, to be valid, must be returned by post, by courier or by hand together with any completed and signed power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarised copy of such sent or delivered to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, power or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 or in Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU some other manner approved by the directors to Capita Registrars at the address overleaf received by Capita Registrars no later than 12 noon on 12th May, 2008. if by post or otherwise at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU 6.
In the case of a member which is a company, this proxy form must be executed under by 12 noon on 12th May, 2008. its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company, stating their capacity e. g. director, secretary.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company 48 hours 7.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which this proxy form is signed prior to the stated commencement of the Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the proxy form.
attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies using the CREST electronic in their names at that time Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Changes to entries on the register after 12 noon on 12th May, 2008 shall be disregarded Manual.
To be valid, the appropriate CREST message, regardless of whether it in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instructions given to a previously appointed proxy, must be transmitted so as to be received by our agent ID: RA10 by 12 noon on 12th May, 2008.
77 Candover Report and accounts 2007 First fold Second fold BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
MB122 Capita Registrars Proxies PO Box 25 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Third fold and tuck inside
