ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Placement fees these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have Pre-paid placement fees incurred in the establishment of been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless managed funds are carried as current assets recoverable from otherwise stated.
future management fees receivable and are written off over the anticipated duration of the managed fund.
Basis of preparation The Group and Company have prepared their financial statements Share-based payments under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS2 Share-based adopted by the European Union.
The Group enters into arrangements that are equityand interpretations approved by the International Accounting settled share-based payments with certain employees.
These Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting are measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is then Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted in the European recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over Union as at 31st December, 2007. the vesting period, based on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The charge is adjusted at each balance sheet The following new or revised accounting standards, which have date to reflect the actual number of forfeitures, cancellations and been issued but are not yet effective, are not anticipated to have a leavers during the period.
The movement in cumulative changes material impact on the financial statements: since the previous balance sheet is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Fair value is IFRS 3 Business combinations measured by use of the Black-Scholes model.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Property, plant and equipment IFRS 8 Operating segments All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost IAS 23 Borrowings costs less depreciation.
IFRS 2 Share-based payment Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less residual The financial statements have been prepared on the historical value of all property, plant and equipment by equal annual cost basis of accounting, except for measurement at fair value of instalments over their expected useful lives.
The periods generally certain assets.
applicable are plant and equipment two to five years and motor vehicles three years.
Leasehold improvements are depreciated The significant accounting policies are set out below: over the duration of the lease.
The residual value of all assets is assessed annually.
Investment Trust SORP Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Financial investments Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts, issued The directors consider that a substantial measure of the by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2003 performance of the Group is assessed through the capital gains revised December 2005, is consistent with the requirements and losses arising from the investment activity of the Group.
of IFRSs, the directors have sought to prepare the financial Consequently, for measurement purposes, financial investments, statements on a basis compliant with the SORP.
including equity, loan and similar instruments, are designated at fair value through profit and loss, and are valued in compliance Management expenses and finance costs with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Management expenses and finance costs have been allocated and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation 80% to capital and 20% to revenue.
Guidelines as recommended by the British Venture Capital Association, the principles of which are set out on page 25.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Financial investments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair statements of the Company and entities controlled by the value.
Gains and losses on the realisation of financial investments Company its subsidiary undertakings made up to the balance are dealt with through the income statement, and taken to the sheet date.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power realised capital reserve.
Financial investments are not held for to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity immediate resale and any gains on realisations are not available so as to obtain benefits directly from its activities.
The difference between the fair value of financial investments and cost to the Group is shown as an Income unrealised gain or loss in the income statement, and taken to the Income arises from investment management, fees relating to unrealised capital reserve.
advisory work on investment transactions and interest income.
Investment management fees are recognised under the accruals Investments in subsidiary undertakings are reflected in the basis, other fees are recognised in full once a contractual obligation Companys accounts at cost less impairment.
is created for the third party.
Trade receivables and payables are accounted for at fair value at Interest income on financial investments, and cash and cash initial recognition and thereafter at amortised cost using the equivalents, is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
A provision will be made against this income where there is uncertainty as to its future recoverability.
Cash and cash equivalents The requirement or otherwise for a provision is considered in Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held conjunction with the valuation of the related financial investment, at call with banks, other short-dated listed fixed income securities the approach to which is stated below.
Such assets are held-for-trading, with capital gains, losses and fair value movements accounted for in the income statement, and taken to capital reserves due to the fact that such balances are held for future investment in financial investments.
40 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Borrowings The results and financial position of all the Group entities that Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at the have a functional currency different from the presentation fair value of the consideration received, net of direct issue costs.
currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by income and expenses for each income statement are translated taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium at actual exchange rates on settlement.
Finance costs, including premiums payable on all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for component of equity.
on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Movements in value for currency fluctuations The cumulative exchange gains and losses on foreign currency are taken to unrealised capital reserves, net of the impact of any net investments are accounted for in the income statement when designated hedging arrangements.
Derivative financial instruments Pension costs Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the risk The Group contributes towards a number of funded defined associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in contribution pension schemes designed to provide retirement interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of benefits for its directors and employees.
The assets of the currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial schemes are held separately from the Group in independently instruments are held at fair value.
Where appropriate derivative administered funds.
The pension cost charge represents financial instruments are designated as fair value hedges on contributions payable by the Group to the schemes in respect inception with the effectiveness tested both at this date and semiof the accounting period.
annually thereafter on a prospective and retrospective basis.
Leases Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of on the contract date and subsequently remeasured to the fair ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating value at each reporting date.
The fair value of currency swaps and leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
fair value of financial instruments are accounted for in the income statement, and taken to the unrealised capital reserve net of any Dividends payable designated hedging arrangements which are offset against the Final dividends are accounted for when they are ratified at the increments in the instrument being hedged.
The ineffective portion Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised of any fair value hedge is assessed semi-annually and where when paid.
material taken to the income statement.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Deferred tax The preparation of financial statements requires the use of Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on all estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted period.
Although these estimates are based on managements or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of temporary differences can be utilised.
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relate to: Due to the Companys status as an investment trust, and the intention to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain the valuation of unlisted financial investments held at fair approval in the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided value through profit and loss, which are valued on the basis for deferred tax on any capital gains and losses arising on the noted above revaluation or disposal of investments.
the recognition or otherwise of accrued income on loan notes and similar instruments granted to investee companies, which Foreign currencies are assessed both independently and in conjunction with the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional overall valuation of an investment currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the the appropriateness of the allocation of management expenses transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from between revenue and capital, which is based on the split of the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the long-term anticipated return between revenue and capital period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities of net income denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income finance costs have been allocated on the same basis statement.
Where exchange differences result from the translation as the above, whereas movements in the carrying value of into sterling of foreign currency resources that are held for future borrowings and related instruments have been taken to the financial investments, the gain or loss is accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve as they have been raised to fund income statement, and taken to capital reserves.
