NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 Accounting developments 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following new standards, interpretations and amendments Cattles plc the Company is a public limited company domiciled cannot be adopted until they have been endorsed by the EU.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year Interpretations effective in 2007 but which had no impact ended 31 December 2007 comprise the Company and its The following interpretations to existing standards are subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006 or later periods, but they have had no impact Statement of compliance on the Group or the Company: These consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives These consolidated and Company financial statements have also IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Standard, amendment and interpretation that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted Basis of preparation The following standard, amendment and interpretation to The financial statements are rounded to the nearest million to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for one decimal place.
They are prepared under the historical cost accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial later periods, but which the Group and the Company have not instruments.
early adopted: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 8 Operating segments it is not expected that this IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and standard, which is effective from 1 January 2009, will assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported significantly impact on the Groups segmental disclosures.
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs it is not expected and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable that this amendment, which is effective from 1 January 2009, under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of will have an impact on the Group or Companys result as the making the judgements about the carrying values of assets and Groups existing accounting policy requires that borrowing liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual costs relating to assets in the course of development are results may differ from these estimates.
capitalised as part of the assets costs rather than expensed.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised minimum funding requirements work is currently being in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision undertaken to establish how this interpretation, which is affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future effective from 1 January 2008, will impact on the value of the periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Group and Companys retirement benefit obligation going Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS forward.
This assessment will take account of the latest that have a significant effect on the financial statements and actuarial valuation and the new schedule of contributions to estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the be agreed in 2008, however it is expected that the adoption next year are discussed in note 2 on page 80. of IFRIC 14 will have no material financial impact as at 1 January 2008.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and Interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been Company financial statements, except for the two changes early adopted, which are not expected to have an impact described below.
The accounting policies have been applied The following interpretations to existing standards have been consistently by all the Groups entities.
published and are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 or later periods, but are not expected Revised format of the income statement to have a material impact on the Group or the Company: The format of the income statement adopted by the Group has been revised in order that it more appropriately reflects the IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions nature of the Groups principal activity, that of lending.
The IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements impact of this presentational change on the current and prior IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes years income statements is set out in note 3 on pages 81 and 82.
Consolidation Adoption of IFRS 7 A business combination is recognised where separate entities IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and the or businesses have been brought together within the Group.
complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power statements Capital disclosures have been adopted from to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 have benefits from its activities, generally accompanying a introduced new quantitative and qualitative disclosures relating shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries to financial instruments and they do not have any impact on the are fully consolidated from the date on which control is classification or valuation of financial instruments.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All subsidiaries share the same reporting date, 31 December, as Cattles plc.
74 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for The purchase method of accounting is used to account for trading: and those designated at fair value through profit or business combinations made by the Group.
The cost of a loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified as at fair value business combination is measured as the fair value of the assets through profit or loss if acquired principally for the purpose of acquired, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable Derivatives refer to the accounting policy entitled Derivative to the business combination.
financial instruments and hedging activities are also Contingent consideration is included in the cost of a business at categorised as held for trading unless they are designated the acquisition date only if the consideration is probable and can as hedges.
be reliably measured, and is discounted using an appropriate Held-to-maturity discount rate.
If the future events upon which the contingent Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial consideration is based do not occur or the estimate needs to be assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed revised or if contingent consideration, which had not been maturities that the Group has a positive intention and ability to initially included, does become probable and can be reliably hold to maturity.
Were the Group to sell a significant amount of measured, the cost of the business combination, and any held-to-maturity assets the entire category would be tainted associated goodwill, is adjusted accordingly.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired Available-for-sale in the business combination are measured initially at their fair Available-for-sale investments are those intended to be held for values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is credited to the income statement The Group has not held any held-to-maturity or available-for-sale in the period of acquisition.
financial assets at any point during the period.
Inter-company income, expenses, balances and unrealised Loans and receivables are recognised when cash is advanced to gains or losses on transactions between Group companies are borrowers, or at the date of acquisition in respect of purchased eliminated on consolidation.
These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
Loans and receivables are Segmental reporting carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit returns that are different from those of other business segments.
or loss are recognised on the date of trade, the date on which the For management purposes, the Group is organised into three Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets at operating divisions, consumer credit principally Welcome fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised, and Financial Services, debt recovery principally The Lewis Group subsequently carried, at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from and corporate services principally Cattles Invoice Finance.
These changes in the fair value of these financial assets are included in divisions are, therefore, the basis on which the Group reports its the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Groups financial assets at fair value through profit or loss relate solely to derivative instruments which cannot be designated as A geographical segment is a group of assets and operations hedges.
Consequently, they are classified as derivative financial engaged in providing products or services within a particular instruments in the balance sheet within assets or liabilities economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that dependent on the individual instruments fair value at the are different from those segments operating in other economic reporting date.
The Groups operations are located only in the UK.
Management considers that all regions of the UK are subject to Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive the same risks and returns, such that no secondary geographic cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the segments exist.
Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial assets Management determines the classification of the Groups Revenue recognition financial assets at initial recognition into one of the following Revenue comprises the fair value receivable for the sale of goods categories and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting and services, net of value added tax, and is recognised as follows: date: Interest income Loans and receivables Interest income is recognised in the income statement for Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with all financial assets measured at amortised cost using the fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a market.
They arise when the Group provides money directly method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset to a customer with no intention of trading the receivable.
and allocating the interest income over the relevant period.
The This classification includes advances made to customers under effective interest rate EIR is the rate that exactly discounts hire purchase agreements and purchased debt.
estimated future cash flows through the expected life, or 75 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued Revenue from sale of goods 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Revenue from the sale of goods, principally vehicles, is contractual term if shorter, of the financial asset to the net recognised when the Group entity has delivered the product carrying amount of the financial asset.
When calculating the to the customer, the customer has accepted the product and EIR, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual collectibility of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
terms of the financial instruments, such as early settlement options, but does not include an expectation for future credit Other operating income losses.
The calculation includes all fees charged to customers, Other operating income primarily comprises commissions such as acceptance or similar fees, and direct and incremental charged to clients for the collection of debts and commissions transaction costs, such as broker commissions and certain charged to third-party lenders for the introduction of new agents remuneration.
All income relating to payment customers.
These commissions are credited to the income protection insurance is regarded as being part of the Groups statement when the collection or brokerage services economic return on the loans, hence the commission element have been provided.
is a constituent part of the EIR and is included within interest Impairment of loans and receivables income.
In respect of loans and receivables, including receivables under Renegotiated loans refers to circumstances under which an hire purchase contracts, the Group assesses on an ongoing basis existing Welcome Finance or Shopacheck loan agreement has whether there is objective evidence that a loan asset or a group been formally rewritten.
The rewrite of an agreement can only of loan assets is impaired.
A loan asset or a group of loan assets occur where the customer has demonstrated a willingness is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is to pay but their circumstances have sufficiently changed from objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more the time at which the loan was originally issued.
The debt is events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset rescheduled to an affordable payment, albeit still at a a loss event and the loss event has an impact on the estimated commercial rate, under a new rewritten agreement.
Interest future cash flows of the loan asset or group of loan assets that income on rewritten loans is recognised in the same way as can be reliably estimated.
The Group first assesses whether non-rewritten loans using the effective interest method.
The objective evidence of impairment exists individually for loan unamortised fees and costs relating to the first agreement assets that are individually significant, and either individually or continue to be recognised over the original contractual term.
collectively for loan assets that are not individually significant.
In respect of purchased debt, the EIR calculation is based on an Welcome Financial Services determines that there is objective estimate of expected collections from the debt and takes evidence of an impairment loss at the point at which they are account of any initial costs, such as court fees.
not prepared to offer any further credit to a customer who has encountered serious repayment difficulties.
In Welcome Finance Amounts due from lessees under finance leases and hire this is assessed by reference to the number of days an account is purchase contracts are recorded as receivables at the amount contractually in arrears.
When an account has reached 120 days of the Groups net investment in the lease.
Finance income is in arrears, there is an acceptance that the original contractual allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant relationship has broken down.
At this stage, specialist account periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment before managers in Local Collection Units seek to establish a different tax outstanding in respect of the lease.
working relationship with the customer, focusing instead on Interest income continues to be recognised at the EIR once a recovering part payments over a rescheduled repayment plan.
financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been At this point, interest on the account is suspended and no longer written down as a result of an impairment loss, irrespective added to the outstanding balance.
In Shopacheck, the point at of the terms of the loan and whether interest has been which no further credit will be offered is assessed by reference suspended on the customers account.
This is referred to to the value of contractual payments made in the preceding as the gross-up adjustment to income and is offset by a 13-week period.
When an account has paid less than 50% of the corresponding gross-up adjustment to the loan loss charge contractually agreed amounts over the previous 13 weeks, it is refer to the accounting policy entitled Impairment of considered impaired.
Cattles Invoice Finance determines that there is objective Fee and related income evidence of an impairment loss as part of a process termed Welcome Finance offers payment protection and other collect out.
This process commences should a client have served insurance products, such as health, life and mechanical notice that they wish to end their facility or when management breakdown insurance, to its customers for which a commission become aware that the client is encountering trading difficulties.
is received from third-party fronting insurers.
At this point the clients facilities are withdrawn, no further funds are made available and client managers begin the process of As set out in the accounting policy entitled Interest income, recovering the outstanding balance.
Where, based upon an commission received in relation to the sale of payment individual assessment of each client in collect out, it is apparent protection insurance is included as part of the EIR of the that there are no further routes to recovery and that as a associated loans.
Commission received for the brokering of the consequence funds will not be recovered in full, a provision is sale of other insurance products, for which the Group does not made which is equivalent to the expected shortfall.
bear any underlying insurance risk, is recognised and credited to the income statement when the brokerage service has been If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has provided.
occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of Income from insurance profit share arrangements with the estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that fronting insurer is recognised on an effective interest method in have not been incurred, discounted at the loan assets original respect of payment protection insurance and is recognised in EIR.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use line with the incidence of risk in respect of other insurance of a loan loss provision.
The amount of the loss is recognised in products.
76 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 Any impairment is recognised immediately through the income 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued statement and is not subsequently reversed.
the income statement as a loan loss charge, except in the case of purchased debt, where any impairment adjustment is taken On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of to interest income.
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loan assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk Up to 31 December 1997 under previous accounting policies, characteristics.
Those characteristics are relevant to the goodwill arising on acquisitions was recognised as a deduction estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets by from equity.
On the subsequent disposal of any business to being indicative of the debtors ability to pay all amounts due which goodwill had been recognised as a deduction from according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
equity, the goodwill remains within equity and is not Future cash flows for a group of loan assets that are collectively transferred to the income statement.
evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the Computer software contractual cash flows of the assets and historical loss Acquired software licenses are capitalised as intangible assets experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to and amortised over their useful lives 3-7 years on a straight those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the line basis.
basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions identifiable software, which meet the development asset in the historical period that do not exist currently.
recognition criteria as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets, are recognised as internally generated intangible assets.
Direct Where interest income continues to be recognised on costs include the employment costs of internal software impaired loans, which cannot be collected from the customer developers, consultancy costs and borrowing costs.
Borrowing due to the interest being fixed at the outset or interest having costs are capitalised until such time as the internally generated been suspended on the customers account, referred to as the software is substantially ready for its intended use.
gross-up adjustment to income, a corresponding loan loss charge is made.
This is referred to as the gross-up adjustment All other software development and maintenance costs are to the loan loss charge refer to the revenue recognition recognised as an expense as incurred.
accounting policy entitled Interest income.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets Loans and receivables and the related loan loss provision are are amortised over their estimated useful lives 5-7 years on normally written off when there is no realistic prospect of a straight line basis.
The assets residual values and useful lives recovery of these amounts.
are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Interest expense Interest expense primarily comprises the interest expense arising Property, plant and equipment on the Groups borrowings, the ineffectiveness charge arising in Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated relation to the Groups hedging instruments refer to the depreciation.
Cost represents expenditure that is directly accounting policy entitled Derivative financial instruments attributable to the purchase of the asset.
Certain land and and hedging activities and the cost of undrawn facilities.
buildings are held at previous revalued amounts less subsequent accumulated depreciation as these amounts were taken as their Foreign currency translation deemed cost as at the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 Functional and presentational currency in accordance with the exemption under IFRS 1.
The Groups financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational Land and buildings are not subject to revaluations.
All subsidiaries of the Group have pounds sterling as Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or their functional currency.
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Transactions and balances probable that future economic benefits associated with the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional items will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the measured reliably.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation calculated using the straight line method to allocate the costs to at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement as part of interest expense in relation to Freehold buildings 2% pa borrowings and as part of other operating expenses in relation Leasehold buildings 2% to 20% pa to other monetary assets and liabilities.
Fixtures and equipment 10% to 33.33% pa Motor vehicles 20% pa Intangible assets Goodwill The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
the cost of a business combination over the fair values An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
recoverable amount if the assets carrying value is greater than its Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed at least annually for estimated recoverable amount.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs.
Each CGU is Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing consistent with the Groups primary reporting segments.
proceeds with carrying amounts and are included in the income statement.
77 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued The fair value of plan assets is based on bid prices at each 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recognised at and changes in actuarial assumptions are immediately cost.
The Company recognises income from the investment only recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
to the extent that it receives distributions from post-acquisition Past service costs are recognised immediately within the accumulated profits.
Distributions received in excess of such income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan profits are regarded as a recovery of investment and recognised are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a as a reduction in the cost of the investment.
specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, past At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the there is any indication that the investment may be impaired.
If such an indication exists, the Company estimates the For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions investments recoverable amount.
The investment is written into privately administered pension plans on a contractual down to the recoverable amount if this is lower than its carrying basis.
The contributions are recognised as a staff cost as they value.
The impairment loss is recognised in the Companys fall due.
The Group provides no other post-retirement benefits to its Inventories directors or other employees.
Inventories comprise vehicles held for resale and are stated at the lower of actual cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value Termination benefits is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business Termination benefits are payable when employment is less variable selling expenses.
terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these Cash and cash equivalents benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash demonstrably committed to either the termination of equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks with employment or a voluntary redundancy offered.
maturity dates of less than three months, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities Share-based payments in the balance sheet.
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment plans, including a Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
In Provisions respect of share awards granted after 7 November 2002 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or and not vested by 1 January 2005, in accordance with IFRS 2 constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely Share-based payment, an expense is recognised in respect than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle of the fair value of employee services received in exchange for the obligation: and the amount has been reliably measured.
the grant of shares or share options.
A corresponding amount Staff costs is recorded as an increase in equity within retained earnings.
Short-term benefits The expense is spread over any relevant vesting period and is Wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, social security calculated by reference to the fair value of the shares or share contributions, paid annual leave and non-monetary benefits, options granted, excluding the effect of any non-market including the cost of providing company cars and death-investing conditions.
service premiums, are accrued in the period in which the In respect of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the grant date is associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
the start of the year in which the performance to determine Pension obligations the level of bonus to be awarded is measured.
The Group has both a defined benefit and a number of defined In arriving at fair values, the Black-Scholes pricing model is used contribution pension plans.
The assets of the defined benefit and various assumptions are made, for example, on expected pension plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
forfeiture rates, dividend yields, share price volatility and risk The present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair free rates.
The estimate for the number of options that are value of the plan assets is recognised in the balance sheet as expected to become exercisable is revised at each balance the retirement benefit obligation.
This obligation is recognised sheet date.
Any impact from the revision of original estimates in the Companys balance sheet since this entity is the plans is recognised in the income statement over the remaining sponsoring employer and there is no formal agreement for vesting period.
allocating the cost of pension contributions between the Share-based payment awards made by the Company to subsidiary participating employers.
The defined benefit employees of subsidiary companies are reflected in the obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries financial statements of the Company as an increase in the using the projected credit method.
The present value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings with the corresponding defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the credit being made to equity.
The Company does not make a estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high quality recharge to its subsidiary companies in respect of awards corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to granted to their employees.
the terms of the related pension liability.
The defined benefit obligation takes account of an allowance for the cash On the exercise of share options any proceeds received, net of commutation option that members have at retirement, but any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share does not include a reserve for death-in-service benefits or capital nominal value with any surplus taken to the share non-investment related expenses.
78 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 Where the Company purchases its own shares, being held by the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued trustee of the employee benefit trust in respect of the various Leasing as lessee long-term incentive plans, the consideration paid, including any Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified on consolidation.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases or hire reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly purchase contracts are capitalised on inception of the agreement attributable transaction costs, is also included in equity on at an amount equal to their fair value or, if lower, the present consolidation.
These transactions are classified as own shares value of the minimum lease payments.
The interest element of held within other reserves.
the lease cost is charged to the income statement, within other The consideration for the purchase of own shares paid by the operating expenses, over the lease period so as to produce a Company is recognised as a receivable due from the trust within constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the the Companys trade and other receivables.
Dividend distribution Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases or Final dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are hire purchase contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in period of the agreement and the estimated useful lives of the which the dividends are approved by the Companys assets.
Interim dividends payable are recognised in the Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and period in which the dividends are paid.
rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement, the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently within other operating expenses or staff costs in the case of re-measured at fair value.
The fair value of derivatives is company cars, on a straight line basis over the period of determined by using a valuation model and is primarily based on the lease.
The method of recognising the resulting Borrowings gain or loss from the re-measurement depends on whether the Borrowings include bank borrowings, debenture loans and other derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases and nature of the item being hedged.
The Groups policy is to designate on the date that the derivative Bank borrowings, debenture loans and other borrowings are contract is committed to.
The Group designates derivatives as: recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds A hedge of the fair value of a liability fair value hedging net of any transaction costs incurred.
These borrowings are instrument, or subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between A hedge of the cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value commitment cash flow hedging instrument.
is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required, at inception, to document in advance the relationship between Current tax the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is The charge for current tax is based on the results for the period also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging It is calculated using rates of tax that have been enacted by the instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective balance sheet date.
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged Deferred tax item on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on re-performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets remains highly effective.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial The effectiveness of hedging instruments is assessed using the statements.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement hypothetical derivative method.
This involves the comparison except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in of the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument to a equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
hypothetical derivative which has critical terms that match the Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have hedged item.
been enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as highly apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the effective fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the deferred tax liability is settled.
income statement within interest expense, together with the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to probable that future taxable profit will be available against the hedged risk.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives Share capital designated as cash flow hedging instruments is recognised in Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
equity within the hedging reserve.
The change in the fair value relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Shares are recorded at their nominal value with any surplus in the income statement within interest expense.
received on their issue taken to the share premium account.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
79 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY AND Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income JUDGEMENT statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit, Loan loss provisioning i. e. when the forecast interest payment that is hedged takes The Group reviews its loans and receivables on an ongoing basis place.
to assess the level of impairment.
Future cash flows are When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows of the assets when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge and historical loss experience.
Historical loss experience is accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is currently.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated immediately transferred to the income statement.
future cash flows differs by 1%, the loan loss provision in the balance sheet would be an estimated 28.4 million lower higher If a fair value hedging instrument no longer meets the 2006: 21.1 million lower higher.
effectiveness criteria, the adjustment to the carrying value of a hedged item, for which the effective interest method is used, Goodwill impairment reviews is amortised to income over the period to maturity.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGUs and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 39.5 million 2006: 39.5 million.
Details of the value in use calculation are provided in note 14 on page 89.
Retirement benefit obligation The valuation of the retirement benefit obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the key ones being mortality rates, investment returns, salary inflation, the rate of pension increases and the extent to which members take up the maximum tax free commutation on retirement.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Groups own experience.
The returns on fixed interest investments are set to market yields at the valuation date to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are set by considering the long-term expected returns on these asset classes using a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available and the views of investment organisations.
The salary inflation and pension increase assumptions reflect the long-term expectations for both earnings and retail price inflation.
The assumption as to how many members will take up the maximum tax free commutation on retirement is based on the schemes own experience of commutation levels.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation as at 31 December 2007 are set out in note 31 on page 115.
80 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 Total revenue is analysed into four categories, being interest 3.
REVISED FORMAT OF THE INCOME STATEMENT income, fee and related income, revenue from sale of goods and The format of the income statement adopted by the Group has other operating income.
been revised in order that it more appropriately reflects the nature of the Groups principal activity, that of lending, as The heading finance costs is replaced by interest expense and is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements and shown deducted from interest income to give net interest IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The impact of this change on the Groups income statement for The heading other cost of sales has been replaced.
The cost for the year ended 31 December 2006 is that certain items of income the purchase of goods and the loan loss charge, previously and expense are presented differently.
These differences are included in this heading, are now shown separately.
Other explained as follows, and illustrated in the restatement below.
items previously included in this heading are included within other operating expenses.
Administrative expenses have been split into either staff costs or other operating expenses.
Corporate format Re-mapping adjustments Banking format 2006 2006 m m Revenue 717.2 Revenue split into Interest income 529.9 Finance costs 97.6 four categories Interest expense 97.6 Net interest income 432.3 Fee and related income 103.9 Revenue from sale of goods 66.9 Total income is after Other operating income 16.5 interest expense Total income 619.6 Other cost of sales 274.3 Purchase of goods 44.6 Purchase of goods Loan loss charge 191.4 Gross profit 345.3 and loan loss charge shown separately with balance of other cost of sales included in other operating expenses Administrative expenses 213.1 Staff costs Staff costs 124.8 shown separately Other operating expenses 126.6 Profit before taxation 132.2 Profit before taxation 132.2 Taxation 40.4 Taxation 40.4 Profit for the year attributable Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 91.8 to equity holders of the Company 91.8 81 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 3.
REVISED FORMAT OF THE INCOME STATEMENT continued The Groups income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 contains certain headings for income and expense which are different from those that would have featured had the revision to the format not taken place.
This impact is illustrated in the table below.
Banking format Re-mapping adjustments Corporate format 2007 2007 m m Interest income 700.0 Revenue split into Revenue 954.8 Interest expense 132.6 four categories Finance costs 132.6 Net interest income 567.4 Fee and related income 125.9 Revenue from sale of goods 110.5 Other operating income 18.4 Total income is after interest expense Total income 822.2 Purchase of goods 68.0 Other cost of sales 411.7 Purchase of goods Loan loss charge 296.9 Gross profit 410.5 and loan loss charge shown separately with balance of other cost of sales included in other operating expenses Staff costs 145.3 Administrative expenses 245.3 Staff costs Other operating expenses 146.8 shown separately Profit before taxation 165.2 Profit before taxation 165.2 Taxation 50.5 Taxation 50.5 Profit for the year attributable to the Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company 114.7 equity holders of the Company 114.7 The revision to the format of the income statement has had no impact on the Groups profit after taxation for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2007, nor has it impacted on the balance sheets and cash flows of the Group and Company in either of these years.
82 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 4.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING The segmental income and results for the year ended 31 December 2007 and segment assets and liabilities as at that date are as follows: Consumer Debt Corporate credit recovery services Central Eliminations Group m m m m m m Income External income 901.6 31.9 21.3 954.8 Inter-segment income 1.8 1.8 Interest expense 129.6 6.3 4.4 7.7 132.6 Total income 772.0 27.4 16.9 7.7 1.8 822.2 Inter-segment sales are entered into under normal arms length commercial terms and conditions.
Result Segment result 164.8 10.2 2.5 177.5 Central expenses 12.3 Profit before taxation 165.2 Taxation 50.5 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 114.7 Consumer Debt Corporate credit recovery services Central Group m m m m m Segment assets and liabilities Segment assets 2,984.6 258.0 108.1 2,719.8 6,070.5 Unallocated 13.1 Eliminations 2,998.7 Total assets 3,084.9 Segment liabilities 2,531.1 251.0 96.3 2,580.3 5,458.7 Unallocated 29.8 Eliminations 2,998.7 Total liabilities 2,489.8 Other segment items Capital expenditure 26.5 0.2 0.8 0.2 27.7 Depreciation 6.1 0.1 0.3 0.1 6.6 Amortisation other intangible assets 3.4 0.1 0.1 3.6 Loan loss charge 294.4 2.5 296.9 The loan loss charge includes the gross-up adjustment of 37.3 million note 18.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment note 16 and intangible assets note 15.
83 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 4.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued The segmental income as restated to reflect interest expense being netted off interest income in the revised format of the income statement and results for the year ended 31 December 2006 and segment assets and liabilities as at that date are as follows: Consumer Debt Corporate credit recovery services Central Eliminations Group m m m m m m Income External income 678.5 21.2 17.5 717.2 Inter-segment income 1.3 1.3 Interest expense 97.2 3.1 2.9 5.6 97.6 Total income 581.3 19.4 14.6 5.6 1.3 619.6 Result Segment result 136.1 4.9 3.5 144.5 Central expenses 12.3 Profit before taxation 132.2 Taxation 40.4 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 91.8 Consumer Debt Corporate credit recovery services Central Group m m m m m Segment assets and liabilities Segment assets 3,219.3 181.2 89.4 2,020.1 5,510.0 Unallocated 17.5 Eliminations 3,206.2 Total assets 2,321.3 Segment liabilities 2,874.6 180.3 77.6 1,941.6 5,074.1 Unallocated 36.5 Eliminations 3,206.2 Total liabilities 1,904.4 Other segment items Capital expenditure 25.3 0.3 0.5 0.1 26.2 Depreciation 6.4 0.1 0.2 0.1 6.8 Amortisation other intangible assets 3.4 0.1 0.1 3.6 Loan loss charge 190.1 1.3 191.4 The loan loss charge includes the gross-up adjustment of 17.0 million note 18.
84 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 5.
PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT The consolidated profit includes 68.7 million 2006: 27.6 million, which has been dealt with in the financial statements of the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not included its own income statement in these financial statements.
INTEREST INCOME 2007 2006 Group m m Loans and receivables 698.5 527.9 Cash equivalents 1.5 2.0 700.0 529.9 Interest income from loans and receivables includes amounts totalling 37.3 million 2006: 17.0 million which the Group must continue to accrue in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement in respect of impaired loans.
This additional income, which cannot be collected from the customer due to the interest being fixed at the outset or interest having been suspended on the customers account, referred to as the gross-up adjustment to income, is fully provided against as part of the loan loss charge note 18.
INTEREST EXPENSE 2007 2006 Group m m Interest expense on borrowings 130.3 97.3 Fair value movements on derivative instruments: Interest rate swaps 1.1 2.1 Cross-currency swaps 0.1 0.5 Other 1.3 1.9 132.6 97.6 Borrowing costs of 2.3 million 2006: 2.2 million were capitalised during the year as part of the cost of internally generated computer software, being the development of Welcome Financial Services IT and customer relationship management system.
These borrowing costs were calculated by applying an average capitalisation rate of 7.0% 2006: 7.0% to the expenditure on developing this qualifying software.
85 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 8.
STAFF COSTS Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Wages and salaries 110.6 97.3 5.4 5.4 Social security costs 13.0 10.4 1.0 1.0 Pension costs defined benefit pension scheme note 31 1.5 1.5 Pension costs defined contribution pension schemes note 31 1.6 1.2 0.2 0.1 Share-based payments 4.9 2.8 2.8 0.9 Other benefits 13.7 13.1 0.3 0.4 145.3 124.8 11.2 7.8 Staff costs includes a cost for termination benefits of 0.3 million 2006: nil and nil 2006: nil for the year ended 31 December 2007 in relation to the Group and Company respectively.
Other benefits principally comprises the cost of providing company cars, health insurance and life assurance cover.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group including directors during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number Welcome Financial Services 4,267 3,903 The Lewis Group 270 245 Cattles Invoice Finance 151 139 Central 31 50 4,719 4,337 Central relates exclusively to the employees of the Company.
Key management compensation Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Short-term employee benefits 4.9 4.2 4.1 3.5 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 2.7 0.9 2.5 0.8 8.1 5.6 7.0 4.7 In addition to the directors of the Company, key management of the Group comprises those members of the executive management team referred to as Cattex.
At 31 December 2007 2,383,808 shares were notionally held by key management in respect of long-term incentive schemes 2006: 1,686,801.
During the year 1,738,043 shares 2006: 748,641 shares with an estimated fair value of 5.2 million 2006: 2.3 million were awarded to key management under these schemes.
In addition, certain members of key management have interests in the Groups executive share option schemes.
At 31 December 2007 16,000 options previously granted to key management were outstanding 2006: 16,000 of which 16,000 2006: 16,000 were exercisable.
No options in these schemes 2006: no options were exercised by key management during the year.
A detailed analysis of the emoluments of the Companys directors, including salaries, benefits in kind, performance-related bonuses, share options, long-term incentives and pension arrangements, is provided in the section entitled Audited information of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 63 and forms part of these financial statements.
86 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 9.
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 2007 2006 Group m m Administrative expenses 37.9 33.9 Occupancy costs 18.4 15.9 Agents commission 13.4 13.7 Advertising costs 12.1 10.9 Collection costs 8.6 7.8 Motor and travel expenses 5.3 3.4 Other 51.1 41.0 146.8 126.6 Other includes hire purchase interest expense of 0.3 million 2006: 0.4 million and the cost of providing against inventory of 0.2 million 2006: 0.3 million.
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COMPANYS EXTERNAL AUDITORS 2007 2006 Group m m Statutory audit services 0.4 0.4 Other assurance services 0.1 0.6 Total assurance services 0.5 1.0 Other services 0.8 0.6 Total auditors remuneration 1.3 1.6 The disclosure of auditors remuneration in accordance with the ICAEWs Technical Release 06 06 is as follows: 2007 2006 Group m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.2 Other services relating to taxation: Compliance 0.4 0.2 Advisory 0.3 Services relating to information technology 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 0.1 0.3 All other services 0.3 0.1 Total other services 1.2 1.5 Total auditors remuneration 1.3 1.6 In addition to the above services, the Companys external auditors acted as auditors to the Cattles Staff Pension Fund.
The appointment of auditors to the Groups pension scheme, and the fees paid in respect of such of 8,780 2006: 8,570, are agreed by the trustees of the scheme, acting independently from the management of the Group.
In appointing the external auditors to carry out non-audit services, and in setting their fees for such work, the directors have due regard to the Groups policy in respect of non-audit services as set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 51 and the benefits, financial and non-financial, expected to be obtained.
In the opinion of the directors, these services should benefit the Group in the future.
For the year ended 31 December 2007 all other services principally related to advisory work in relation to the Groups response to the Competition Commissions inquiry into the payment protection insurance market, the Groups defined benefit pension scheme and the Groups share-based payment awards, whereas in 2006 these services primarily related to distributable reserves planning work.
The charges for audit and non-audit services are included within other operating expenses.
The Company is not required to disclose details of its own non-audit services.
87 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 11.
TAXATION 2007 2006 Group m m Current tax UK corporation tax at 30% 2006: 30% 46.2 35.3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.4 1.3 44.8 34.0 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of timing differences 4.5 4.9 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.6 1.5 Change in tax rate 0.6 Total tax charge in the income statement 50.5 40.4 2007 2006 Group m m Current tax on items credited to equity Relating to share-based payments 0.4 0.8 0.4 0.8 Deferred tax on items credited debited to equity Relating to cash flow hedges 3.9 3.7 Relating to retirement benefit obligation 2.4 2.2 Relating to share-based payments 0.5 Change in tax rate 0.2 1.3 6.4 The standard rate of tax for the year, based on the UK standard rate of corporation tax, is 30% 2006: 30%.
Deferred tax has been recognised at 28% following the enactment of the reduction in the rate of corporation tax, which is effective from 1 April 2008.
The tax charge for the year is more than the tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2007 2006 Group m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 165.2 132.2 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of 30% 2006: 30% 49.6 39.7 Factors affecting charge for the year: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.1 0.5 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years 0.8 0.2 Change in tax rate 0.6 Total tax charge for the year 50.5 40.4 12.
DIVIDENDS 2007 2006 Group and Company m m Amounts recognised as distributed to equity holders in the year: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 6.20p 2006: 5.65p 22.4 18.5 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 11.85p 2005: 10.65p 42.9 34.9 65.3 53.4 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 13.10p per share.
This dividend will be paid on 13 May 2008 to shareholders who are on the register at 28 March 2008.
The dividend will be recognised as an appropriation of the Group and Companys profits in the six months ended 30 June 2008 and will absorb an estimated 47.5 million of shareholdersfunds.
Dividends of 0.1 million 2006: 0.2 million, in respect of the total dividend for 2007 of 19.30p per share, have been waived by the trustee of the employee benefit trust in respect of those shares held under the various long-term incentive plans.
88 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 13.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding own shares held note 29 which are treated, for this purpose, as being cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Shares in issue during the year 355.6 329.0 Own shares held 0.7 1.4 Basic EPS 114.7 354.9 32.30 91.8 327.6 28.01 Effect of dilutive securities: Options 0.4 0.04 0.4 0.03 Diluted EPS 114.7 355.3 32.26 91.8 328.0 27.98 14.
GOODWILL Group m Cost At 1 January 2006, 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 46.1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2006, 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 6.6 Net book amount At 1 January 2006, 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 39.5 Goodwill relates entirely to the Groups consumer credit division and the impairment review performed as at 31 December 2007 demonstrates significant headroom.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to loan loss rates and direct costs.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the consumer credit division.
Changes in loan loss rates and direct costs are based on historic experience and expectations of short-term future changes in the market.
The Group prepares a cash flow forecast derived from the approved budget for the following year and extrapolates this in line with historic long-term UK GDP growth.
The cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 7.9% 2006: 9.3%.
The Company has no goodwill.
89 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets solely comprise computer software.
Group Company Internally Internally generated Acquired generated Acquired assets assets Total assets assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 2.0 34.3 36.3 0.1 0.1 Additions 19.0 2.7 21.7 Reclassifications 9.9 9.8 0.1 At 1 January 2007 30.9 27.2 58.1 0.1 0.1 Additions 18.1 2.6 20.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Reclassifications 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2007 49.3 29.4 78.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2006 13.9 13.9 Charge for the year 0.8 2.8 3.6 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2007 0.8 16.7 17.5 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 1.2 2.4 3.6 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2007 2.0 19.0 21.0 Net book amount At 31 December 2007 47.3 10.4 57.7 At 31 December 2006 30.1 10.5 40.6 At 1 January 2006 2.0 20.4 22.4 0.1 0.1 The internally generated computer software principally relates to the cost of developing Welcome Finances customer relationship management systems.
The carrying value of these systems, which includes certain items of acquired software, amounts to 54.4 million 2006: 37.2 million.
For the systems which have been commissioned, and hence where amortisation of the cost has commenced, the remaining amortisation period is approximately five and a half years 2006: six and a half years.
Internally generated computer software additions include 2.3 million 2006: 2.2 million in respect of capitalised borrowing costs.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged to the income statement through other operating expenses.
90 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 16.
The net book values of fixtures and equipment and motor vehicles include amounts of 1.3 million 2006: 2.5 million and 4.2 million 2006: 1.6 million respectively in respect of assets held by the Group under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Included within the depreciation charge shown above was 1.9 million 2006: 2.9 million in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
91 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Leasehold Fixtures land and and Motor buildings equipment vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 0.2 0.7 0.3 1.2 Additions 0.1 0.1 Intra-group transfers 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 1 January 2007 0.2 0.7 0.2 1.1 Additions 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2007 0.2 0.7 0.3 1.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2006 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Intra-group transfers 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 1 January 2007 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2007 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Net book amount At 31 December 2007 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2006 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 1 January 2006 0.1 0.2 0.3 Depreciation has been charged to the Companys income statement through other operating expenses or staff costs in the case of company cars.
The net book value of motor vehicles includes an amount of 0.2 million 2006: 0.1 million in respect of assets held by the Company under hire purchase contracts.
Included within the depreciation charge shown above was 0.1 million 2006: 0.1 million in respect of assets held under hire purchase contracts.
92 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 17.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 2007 2006 Company m m Cost At 1 January 187.7 188.5 Additions 2.1 175.7 Disposals 176.5 At 31 December 189.8 187.7 Provision for diminution in value At 1 January 8.1 10.8 Disposals 2.7 At 31 December 8.1 8.1 Net book amount at 31 December 181.7 179.6 Of the additions in the year, 2.1 million 2006: 1.9 million relate to share-based payments in respect of employees of the subsidiary undertakings.
The disposals in 2006 related to the transfer of the Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings to one of the Groups intermediate holding companies in exchange for shares in this company.
All principal subsidiaries are wholly owned by Cattles plc.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 35 on page 118.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Credit risk Credit risk in relation to loans and receivables is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer to meet their obligations under a loan agreement.
A description of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing credit risk and how it is measured is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 19 to 21 in the section entitled Credit risk.
Details are also given in relation to the concentration risk associated with the Groups receivables in the section entitled Concentration risk on page 23.
Maximum exposure to credit risk The maximum exposure to credit risk of the Groups loans and receivables is set out in the table below: 2007 2006 Group m m Welcome Finance 2,510.5 1,820.5 Shopacheck 101.3 113.7 Cattles Invoice Finance 99.4 80.2 Originated loans and receivables 2,711.2 2,014.4 Purchased debt The Lewis Group 132.9 91.0 Total loans and receivables 2,844.1 2,105.4 Comprising: Current assets 1,065.6 836.1 Non-current assets 1,778.5 1,269.3 2,844.1 2,105.4 93 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Credit quality A summary of the arrears status of the Groups loans and receivables by class is shown below as at 31 December 2007 and 2006: Cattles Welcome Invoice Group Finance Shopacheck Finance Total 2007 m m m m Neither past due nor impaired 2,184.5 32.4 95.5 2,312.4 Past due but not impaired 458.2 71.5 2.4 532.1 Impaired 441.0 52.6 4.5 498.1 Outstanding customer balance 3,083.7 156.5 102.4 3,342.6 Unamortised fees and costs and accrued interest 233.2 30.2 0.4 263.8 Gross loans and receivables 2,850.5 126.3 102.0 3,078.8 Loan loss provision 340.0 25.0 2.6 367.6 Originated loans and receivables 2,510.5 101.3 99.4 2,711.2 Purchased debt The Lewis Group 132.9 Total loans and receivables 2,844.1 The Groups purchased debt receivables of 132.9 million 2006: 91.0 million are performing in line with The Lewis Groups expectations, but are in default relative to the original contractual terms between the debtor and the third-party from whom The Lewis Group acquired the debt.
Cattles Welcome Invoice Group Finance Shopacheck Finance Total 2006 m m m m Neither past due nor impaired 1,630.9 34.1 75.7 1,740.7 Past due but not impaired 272.6 63.8 4.4 340.8 Impaired 396.0 79.0 2.6 477.6 Outstanding customer balance 2,299.5 176.9 82.7 2,559.1 Unamortised fees and costs and accrued interest 205.5 28.6 0.3 234.4 Gross loans and receivables 2,094.0 148.3 82.4 2,324.7 Loan loss provision 273.5 34.6 2.2 310.3 Originated loans and receivables 1,820.5 113.7 80.2 2,014.4 Purchased debt The Lewis Group 91.0 Total loans and receivables 2,105.4 94 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Loans and receivables past due but not impaired Cattles Welcome Invoice Group Finance Finance Total 2007 m m m Past due up to 29 days 142.7 0.8 143.5 Past due 30-59 days 119.0 0.2 119.2 Past due 60-89 days 102.0 0.1 102.1 Past due 90-119 days 94.5 0.2 94.7 Past due 120 days or more 1.1 1.1 458.2 2.4 460.6 Shopacheck 71.5 Total 532.1 Shopacheck receivables which are classified as past due but not impaired of 71.5 million 2006: 63.8 million have not been analysed into past due bandings since the collection performance of this type of loan is not managed with reference to the extent of any contractual arrears arising during the entire period of the loan since its inception.
Instead, performance is managed, and the need for any loan loss provision considered, with reference to the value of contractual payments received in only the preceding 13-week period.
This approach prohibits any meaningful disclosure of the ageing of the debt by reference to its contractual past due status.
In addition, the directors consider that this disclosure of the Shopacheck receivables is not material in the context of the Groups total loans and receivables of 2.8 billion 2006: 2.1 billion.
Cattles Welcome Invoice Group Finance Finance Total 2006 m m m Past due up to 29 days 64.2 0.5 64.7 Past due 30-59 days 98.6 98.6 Past due 60-89 days 47.2 1.0 48.2 Past due 90-119 days 62.6 0.1 62.7 Past due 120 days or more 2.8 2.8 272.6 4.4 277.0 Shopacheck 63.8 Total 340.8 Renegotiated loans and receivables In Welcome Finance and Shopacheck renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due or impaired totalled 309.8 million and 1.0 million at 31 December 2007 2006: 170.6 million and 1.0 million respectively.
95 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Collateral The Group holds collateral in relation to certain of its loans and receivables, further details of which are provided below: Welcome Finance In accordance with IFRS 7 implementation guidance notes paragraph 36 b, Welcome Finance does not fair value the collateral held as security in respect of its secured loan and hire purchase receivables on the basis that it would be impracticable to do so and instead provided below is an explanation of the nature of the collateral held.
It would be impracticable to fair value the collateral held because information on the value of customers properties and first charge mortgage liabilities is not maintained.
Additionally, the only way of estimating the fair value of used motor vehicles on hire purchase would be on an aggregate basis, which may result in the collateral disclosure being misleading when some loans in a portfolio are over-collateralised, and other loans have insufficient collateral.
In these circumstances, netting the fair value of the two types of collateral would under-report the amount of credit risk.
Secured loans Secured loans are not underwritten based on equity, but on the customers ability to afford the loan repayments, with the emphasis placed on assessing and verifying the customers incomings and outgoings.
A legal charge ranking second or third is registered against the customers property, to ensure that the customer prioritises repayments of the secured loan.
Hire purchase Hire purchase loans are advanced to customers for the purchase of used motor vehicles.
The terms of the hire purchase contract allow the customer to voluntarily terminate and allow Welcome Finance to repossess the vehicle, both subject to meeting certain criteria.
A customer may voluntarily terminate the hire purchase contract provided they have paid at least 50% of the contract and have not received a notice of default.
In this instance the vehicle is returned to Welcome Finance and disposed of, with the proceeds offset against the customers outstanding balance.
Any remaining balance is written off.
Legally, Welcome Finance may repossess a vehicle financed on a hire purchase contract, provided the customer has paid less than one third of the contract and a notice of default has been issued.
Welcome Finance endeavour to negotiate arrangements with the customer to avoid the need for repossession.
Vehicles that are repossessed are promptly disposed of at auction and the proceeds offset against the customers outstanding balance.
The customer is liable for any remaining balance.
Cattles Invoice Finance In addition to the value of the underlying assigned sales ledger balances, Cattles Invoice Finance will wherever possible obtain additional security before offering invoice finance facilities to a client.
These include limited personal guarantees from major shareholders, charges over personal and other business property, cross guarantees from associated companies, and unlimited warranties in the case of frauds.
These additional forms of security are impracticable to fair value as valuations of the guarantees or warranties are not capable of being accurately determined at any point during the agreement.
96 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Loan loss provision The following tables provide an analysis of the movement in the Groups loan loss provision during 2007 and 2006: Cattles Welcome Invoice Group Finance Shopacheck Finance Total 2007 m m m m At 1 January 2007 273.5 34.6 2.2 310.3 Utilised 181.6 33.1 1.9 216.6 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 13.0 1.2 0.1 14.3 Charged to the income statement: Additional provisions created 248.1 23.5 2.3 273.9 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 13.0 1.2 0.1 14.3 235.1 22.3 2.2 259.6 At 31 December 2007 340.0 25.0 2.6 367.6 Loan loss charge before gross-up adjustment 235.1 22.3 2.2 259.6 Gross-up adjustment 14.0 23.0 0.3 37.3 Total loan loss charge 249.1 45.3 2.5 296.9 Cattles Welcome Invoice Group Finance Shopacheck Finance Total 2006 m m m m At 1 January 2006 257.4 39.0 1.2 297.6 Utilised 139.9 27.3 0.3 167.5 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 4.8 1.0 5.8 Charged to the income statement: Additional provisions created 156.0 22.9 1.3 180.2 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 4.8 1.0 5.8 151.2 21.9 1.3 174.4 At 31 December 2006 273.5 34.6 2.2 310.3 Loan loss charge before gross-up adjustment 151.2 21.9 1.3 174.4 Gross-up adjustment 11.8 5.2 17.0 Total loan loss charge 163.0 27.1 1.3 191.4 Maturity profile of hire purchase receivables The Groups gross investment in hire purchase receivables included in the Welcome Finance loans and receivables balance is analysed in the following table: 2007 2006 Group m m Within one year 342.5 290.3 One to five years 593.5 440.3 Over five years 62.2 30.5 998.2 761.1 Unearned future finance income 238.2 186.2 Loan loss provision 50.0 64.9 Present value of future lease payments 710.0 510.0 The Group provides hire purchase facilities to customers purchasing vehicles from Welcome Car Finance and other third-party dealers.
Under the terms of the hire purchase agreements, no unguaranteed residual values are accruing to the Group and no contingent rents are payable.
Company Company loans and receivables, as shown in the balance sheet on page 71, of 2.7 billion 2006: 2.0 billion, comprise amounts due from subsidiary companies, all of which are repayable on demand.
97 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Trade receivables 5.2 3.5 Loan to the employee benefit trust 0.8 3.1 Other receivables 27.8 34.3 0.4 0.5 Prepayments and accrued income 11.1 10.1 1.4 1.7 44.1 47.9 2.6 5.3 Comprising: Non-current assets 0.8 3.1 Current assets 44.1 47.9 1.8 2.2 44.1 47.9 2.6 5.3 An analysis of the arrears status of the Groups trade receivables and the Companys loan to the employee benefit trust has not been presented as the amounts concerned are not significant.
The Group and Companys other receivables at 31 December 2007 and 2006 are considered neither past due nor impaired.
The other receivables of the Group principally relate to profit share debtors arising from the sale of insurance policies, which are due, in accordance with the prescribed payment terms, from third-party insurers.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary timing differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28% 2006: 30%.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary timing differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
All of the deferred tax liabilities are available for offset against deferred tax assets and hence the deferred tax asset at each balance sheet date is shown net.
The movements in the deferred tax account are shown below: Group Company Accelerated tax Other timing Other timing depreciation differences Total differences m m m m At 1 January 2006 0.3 28.8 28.5 15.7 Recognised in income 1.9 4.5 6.4 Recognised in equity 6.4 6.4 5.7 At 1 January 2007 2.2 17.9 15.7 10.0 Recognised in income 2.8 2.9 5.7 0.6 Recognised in equity 1.3 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2007 5.0 16.3 11.3 10.7 Other timing differences principally relate to either timing differences arising from changes in accounting policies following the transition to IFRS, actuarial gains and losses on the retirement benefit obligation, fair value gains and losses relating to cash flow hedging instruments or share-based payments.
Of the Group and Companys deferred tax balance at 31 December 2007, 9.8 million 2006: 14.7 million and 10.3 million 2006: 10.0 million respectively is expected to be realised in more than one year.
98 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 21.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 20.6 12.9 7.4 Fixed interest bank deposits 29.2 21.2 49.8 34.1 7.4 All bank deposits have a maturity of one month.
A description of how the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk in relation to its cash and cash equivalents, as well as details on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing this risk and how it is measured, is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 22 and 23 in the section entitled Counterparty credit risk.
BORROWINGS Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Current Unsecured bank borrowings and overdrafts 18.9 16.2 18.9 16.2 Unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings 60.3 152.0 59.5 151.3 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 2.0 2.6 Unsecured intra-group borrowings 51.6 38.1 81.2 170.8 130.0 205.6 Non-current Unsecured bank borrowings 1,321.9 1,043.0 1,321.9 1,043.0 Unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings 912.2 538.0 909.8 534.8 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 4.0 3.0 0.2 0.1 2,238.1 1,584.0 2,231.9 1,577.9 Total borrowings 2,319.3 1,754.8 2,361.9 1,783.5 At 31 December 2007 unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings for the Group comprised: a A sterling bond with a carrying amount of 371.1 million 2006: 370.8 million.
The bond has a par value of 350 million but was issued at a 0.227% discount, realising net proceeds of 347.6 million.
The bond has a fixed rate of interest of 6.875% and is redeemable at par in January 2014.
The carrying amount reflects the unamortised discount, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 0.5 million, 1.5 million and 23.1 million respectively.
b A sterling bond with a carrying amount of 408.4 million 2006: nil.
The bond has a par value of 400 million but was issued at a 0.931% discount, realising net proceeds of 394.3 million.
The bond has a fixed rate of interest of 7.125% and is redeemable at par in July 2017.
The carrying amount reflects the unamortised discount, unamortised transactions costs and accrued interest of 5.5 million, 0.1 million and 14.0 million respectively.
c A US private placing with a carrying amount of 125.0 million 2006: 124.4 million.
The placing raised $40 million 7.15% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2008, $70 million 7.53% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2011, 30 million 7.64% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2011 and 40 million 7.80% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2016.
The carrying amount reflects hedging adjustments, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 20.1 million, 0.7 million and 0.3 million respectively.
d A US private placing with a carrying amount of 63.3 million 2006: 64.1 million.
The placing raised $20 million 6.17% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2011, $55 million 6.25% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013, 6 million 4.62% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013, 1 million 5.89% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013 and 20 million 5.94% unsecured loan notes redeemable at par in February 2021.
The carrying amount reflects hedging adjustments, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 5.1 million, 0.3 million and 0.5 million respectively.
e A fixed rate 6.39% loan with a carrying amount of 3.2 million 2006: 3.9 million.
The loan is repayable in quarterly instalments by September 2011. f 1.5 million 2006: 1.5 million 4% unsecured loan notes redeemable at par during 2008.
All the unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings described above relate to the Company, except for the loan referred to in part e. 99 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 22.
BORROWINGS continued Liquidity risk borrowings A description of how the Group is exposed to liquidity risk in relation to its borrowings, as well as details on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing liquidity risk and how it is measured, is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 21 and 22 in the section entitled Liquidity risk.
Details are also given in relation to the concentration risk associated with the Groups borrowings in the section entitled Concentration risk on page 23.
The contractual maturities of the Group and Companys borrowings, including both capital and interest payments, are analysed below.
The amounts shown, therefore, do not reconcile to the Group and Companys balance sheets.
BORROWINGS continued Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts The Group and Companys gross obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are as follows: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Gross lease payments: Not later than one year 2.1 2.8 Later than one year but not more than five 4.4 3.2 0.2 0.1 6.5 6.0 0.2 0.1 Future finance charges 0.5 0.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 6.0 5.6 0.2 0.1 The above figures relate to motor vehicles acquired under hire purchase contracts and computer hardware acquired under finance lease agreements.
Liquidity risk obligations under operating lease contracts The maturity profiles of the contractual cash flows associated with the Group and Companys operating leases are analysed below.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A description of how the Group is exposed to interest rate and currency risk in relation to its borrowings, as well as details on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks and how they are measured, is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on page 22 in the sections entitled Interest rate risk and Currency risk.
Details are also given in relation to the counterparty credit risk associated with the Groups derivative financial instruments in the section entitled Counterparty credit risk on pages 22 and 23.
Interest rate risk At 31 December 2007, the Group and the Company held interest rate swaps covering floating rate bank borrowings of 1.0 billion 2006: 707.0 million, effectively fixing the associated cost of interest at rates between 4.01% and 5.72% 2006: 4.01% and 6.43%.
In addition, the Group and the Company held a collar covering a further 10.0 million 2006: 10.0 million, which is allowed to floatata floor rate of 4.25% and a cap rate of 4.75% 2006: floor rate of 4.25% and a cap rate of 4.75%.
Except for the collar, all of the interest rate financial instruments are designated as cash flow hedges.
The gains and losses deferred in equity will be recorded in the income statement during the next ten years 2006: five years, being the remaining lives of the instruments.
Foreign currency risk All foreign currency denominated borrowings are immediately swapped into sterling at the commencement of the facility agreement and, hence, the Group and the Company are not exposed to currency rate fluctuations.
Of the Group and the Companys cross-currency swaps 75.5 million 2006: 75.5 million are designated as fair value hedges and, as a consequence, the change in the fair values of these swaps is recorded in the income statement within interest expense, together with the change in the fair values of US Dollar denominated tranches of a private placing which the swaps have hedged.
The remaining 47.2 million 2006: 47.2 million of cross-currency swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and were taken out to hedge against the interest and currency risk associated with US Dollar and Euro denominated tranches of a private placing.
The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments, as well as their notional amounts that equal the amount of the associated borrowing: 2007 2006 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Group and Company m m m m m m Interest rate swaps 1,010.0 3.0 9.1 707.0 7.7 0.3 Interest rate caps and collars 10.0 0.1 10.0 0.1 Cross-currency swaps 122.7 0.2 26.1 122.7 26.3 1,142.7 3.3 35.2 839.7 7.8 26.6 Comprising: Current 0.6 7.8 0.3 0.2 Non-current 2.7 27.4 7.5 26.4 3.3 35.2 7.8 26.6 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet.
Neither the Group nor the Company holds any other derivatives and neither have they identified embedded derivatives which require separate accounting for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement.
102 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Liquidity risk The contractual maturities of the Group and Companys derivatives are analysed as follows: Up to 3 312 12 23 34 45 Over 5 Group and Company months months years years years years years Total 2007 m m m m m m m m Derivatives settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 1.3 0.3 3.4 2.7 1.9 1.8 2.5 11.3 Derivatives settled on a gross basis: Cross-currency swaps Outflow 0.7 36.0 6.4 6.5 65.6 2.1 36.2 153.5 Inflow 1.3 25.5 5.2 5.2 50.1 1.9 33.0 122.2 Up to 3 312 12 23 34 45 Over 5 Group and Company months months years years years years years Total 2006 m m m m m m m m Derivatives settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 Derivatives settled on a gross basis: Cross-currency swaps Outflow 0.7 8.2 36.5 6.7 6.7 65.6 38.3 162.7 Inflow 1.3 5.4 27.2 5.3 5.3 50.9 35.1 130.5 Cash flow hedges The following table shows the impact of the Group and Companys cash flow hedges on the income statement and equity during the year: 2007 2006 Group and Company m m Amount recognised in equity 13.3 11.2 Amount removed from equity via the income statement within interest expense 6.1 1.3 Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement within interest expense 1.1 2.1 Fair value hedges The following table shows the impact of the Group and Companys fair value hedges on the balance sheet and the income statement during the year: 2007 2006 Group and Company m m Gains losses on the hedging instruments 0.7 8.5 Losses gains on the hedged borrowings 0.6 8.0 Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement within interest expense 0.1 0.5 103 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Sensitivity analysis An increase in LIBOR by one percentage point would have an adverse impact on profit for the year of 1.9 million 2006: 2.4 million and a favourable impact on equity of 34.1 million 2006: 20.1 million.
The Group is not exposed to currency risk because all foreign currency denominated borrowings are immediately swapped into sterling at the start of the related facility agreement for the term of the borrowings.
Fair values of non-derivative financial instruments The following table summarises the carrying values and fair values of those financial instruments not recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, except for those financial instruments being loans and receivables, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, trade and other payables, intra-group receivables and payables, and obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts whose carrying values approximate to their fair values.
2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Group m m m m Bank borrowings 1,326.8 1,294.8 1,047.2 1,062.2 Debenture loans and other borrowings 972.5 980.1 690.0 696.0 Company Bank borrowings 1,326.8 1,294.8 1,047.2 1,062.2 Debenture loans and other borrowings 969.3 976.9 686.1 692.0 The fair values of bank borrowings, debenture loans and other borrowings are calculated by discounting expected future cash flows.
Expected future cash flows are derived using interest rates reflected in yield curves available at each balance sheet date and at exchange rates prevailing at each balance sheet date.
Effective interest rates The following profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is stated after taking into account the effect of the interest rate swaps discussed above.
2007 2006 Weighted average effective interest rates at year-end % % Loans and receivables 46.8 42.0 Cash equivalents 5.9 5.2 Bank borrowings 5.6 5.4 Debenture loans and other borrowings 7.1 7.3 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 6.6 6.4 Individually these assets and liabilities bear interest at fixed rates Interest on floating rate bank borrowings is based on a fixed margin over floating rate LIBOR, as pre-determined by each facility agreement.
The weighted average effective interest rates on the Groups cash and bank overdrafts are based on the prevailing UK base rate less 0.1% and plus 1.0% 2006: less 0.1% and plus 1.0% respectively.
The weighted average effective interest rates in relation to the Companys financial assets and liabilities are the same of those of the Group, except for loans and receivables which was 6.9% at 31 December 2007 2006: 6.8%.
104 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Bank facilities The committed bank facilities available to the Group and the Company at 31 December 2007 were: Total facility Undrawn facility Type Maturity period Established m m Overdraft Renewable annually 13.4 0.4 Bilateral June 2009 2007 150.0 150.0 Syndicate July 2009 2004 500.0 7.0 Syndicate July 2011 2006 15.0 1.0 Bilateral July 2011 2004 75.0 15.0 Loan April 2012 2005 6.9 Syndicate July 2012 2006 785.0 32.0 1,545.3 205.4 Utilisation from each syndicated and bilateral facility is by money market renewable term loans or acceptances which are rolled over in one year or less.
Principal covenants The Group and the Company must comply with principal lending covenants in respect of the ratio of total borrowings to tangible net worth and the ratio of profit before interest and tax to net interest payable.
At 31 December 2007 neither of these covenants had been breached.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Current Trade payables 18.3 17.7 0.5 0.6 Other taxes and social security 6.3 5.9 0.2 0.2 Other payables 3.9 2.4 0.2 Accruals 25.4 19.8 3.2 3.7 53.9 45.8 4.1 4.5 Non-current Other taxes and social security 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other payables 11.5 4.1 11.6 8.7 11.7 4.3 11.8 8.9 All trade payables have a maturity of within one month.
An analysis of the contractual maturities of the Group and Companys other payables has not been presented as the amounts concerned are not material in the context of the Group and Companys total liabilities.
105 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 25.
PROVISIONS Contingent consideration Dilapidations Total Group m m m At 1 January 2007 0.6 1.8 2.4 Additional provisions created 0.6 0.6 Utilised 0.6 0.2 0.8 At 31 December 2007 2.2 2.2 2007 2006 m m Current 0.6 Non-current 2.2 1.8 2.2 2.4 The contingent consideration provision, which was held by the Company in 2006, related to the disposal of Cattles Commercial Finance Limited in 2005.
The contingent consideration was settled during the year.
The dilapidations provision relates to the future cost of rectifying dilapidations across the Groups portfolio of properties, which are under tenant-repairing leases.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Group and Company Number m Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 2006, 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 500,000,000 50.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 2006 328,868,981 32.9 Exercise of options 863,954 0.1 At 1 January 2007 329,732,935 33.0 Issue of new shares through placing 32,978,986 3.3 Exercise of options 92,839 At 31 December 2007 362,804,760 36.3 On 20 March 2007 the Company issued 32,978,986 ordinary shares of a price of 403.25p per share raising aggregate consideration before costs of 133.0 million through a placing to 44 institutional investors procured by HSBC Bank plc and CitiGroup Global Markets UK Equity Limited.
On 15 March 2007 the date upon which the terms of the share issue were fixed the mid-market price of the ordinary shares at the opening and close of business was 400.5p and 416.5p respectively.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares are as follows: Voting On a show of hands every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting of the Company and every proxy appointed by an ordinary shareholder and present at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote and on a poll every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
Dividends Ordinary shareholders shall be entitled to receive such dividend as the Company by ordinary resolution may from time to time declare as a final dividend such dividend not to exceed the amount recommended by the Board or as the Board may from time to time declare as an interim dividend.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Return of capital on a winding-up Ordinary shareholders are entitled to participate in any surplus assets on the winding-up of the Company in proportion to their shareholdings.
Capital risk A description of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital risk and how it is measured is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on page 23 in the section entitled Capital risk.
106 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS a Group The Group recognised a total charge of 4.9 million 2006: 2.8 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year ended 31 December 2007.
A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 January 1,373,733 262.84 2,457,778 248.98 Granted 1,183,991 298.20 Exercised 92,839 247.22 863,954 223.37 Expired 159,628 251.77 220,091 262.96 Outstanding at 31 December 2,305,257 282.40 1,373,733 262.84 Exercisable at 31 December 117,300 339.46 231,976 289.82 On 26 October 2007 1,183,991 options were granted 2006: nil with an estimated fair value of 0.5 million.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised over the year was 383p 2006: 358p.
107 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Shares issued under long-term incentive plans and Share Incentive Plan The Group has a number of long-term incentive plans for directors and senior executives.
Details of each plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 59.
During the year 2,042,404 shares 2006: 891,367 shares with an estimated fair value of 6.2 million 2006: 2.8 million were awarded to directors and senior executives under these plans.
The Group also operates a Share Incentive Plan which is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive directors, and is an HMRC-approved all-employee scheme.
During the year 572,167 shares 2006: 576,783 shares with an estimated fair value of 1.8 million 2006: 1.5 million were awarded to staff, including directors and senior executives under the Share Incentive Plan.
b Company The Company recognised a total charge of 2.8 million 2006: 0.9 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Equity-settled share option schemes Outstanding options under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1994, the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 and the Cattles Employee Sharesave Scheme at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Exercise price Exercise 2007 2006 Period granted pence period Number Number Executive Share Option Schemes 1998 241.75 2001 2008 2,400 2,400 1999 363.95 2002 2009 4,000 4,000 6,400 6,400 Employee Sharesave Scheme 2003 285.60 2008 2009 27,758 27,758 2006 243.20 2010 2011 25,471 25,471 2007 298.20 2010 2011 11,818 2007 298.20 2012 2013 40,761 105,808 53,229 112,208 59,629 The outstanding share options may be analysed by range of exercise prices as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Range of exercise exercise price remaining life exercise price remaining life prices pence pence Number years pence Number years 241.95 249.00 243.08 27,871 3.19 243.08 27,871 4.19 250.00 299.00 293.85 80,337 3.74 285.60 27,758 2.42 300.00 363.95 363.95 4,000 1.25 363.95 4,000 2.25 283.74 112,208 3.51 270.98 59,629 3.24 A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 January 59,629 270.98 156,227 241.10 Granted 52,579 298.20 Exercised 95,853 222.83 Expired 745 200.90 Outstanding at 31 December 112,208 283.74 59,629 270.98 Exercisable at 31 December 6,400 318.13 6,400 318.13 On 26 October 2007 52,579 options were granted 2006: nil with an estimated fair value of 0.1 million.
No options were exercised in the year and the weighted average share price during 2006 was 358p.
108 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Fair value of share-based payments The fair values of all share-based payments arising from share awards in relation to both the Group and the Company have been estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The assumptions used in the fair value calculations relating to share awards which have not vested by 31 December 2007 are as follows: Arrangement Employee Sharesave Scheme Share Incentive Plan Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Nature of arrangement options options options options shares shares Grant date 1 10 03 25 10 05 26 10 07 26 10 07 31 5 06 31 5 07 Share price at grant date 327p 271p 342p 342p 346p 413.25p Exercise price 285.6p 243.2p 298.2p 298.2p 0p 0p Shares under option at grant date 755,683 878,109 428,511 755,480 576,783 572,167 Vesting period years 5.2 5.1 3.1 5.1 2.0 2.0 Expected volatility 31% 31% 27% 26% n a n a Expected life years 5.2 5.1 3.1 5.1 2.0 2.0 Risk free rate 4.3% 4.3% 4.9% 4.9% n a n a Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield 3.3% 5.4% 5.3% 5.3% n a n a Expected forfeiture rate pa 9% 9.1% 12% 12% 14% 14% Fair value per option 95.2p 60.9p 70.3p 73.0p 346.3p 413.3p 1 Arrangement Long-Term Incentives Grantof Grantof Grantof Grantof Grantof Grantof Grantof Grantof Grantof Nature of arrangement shares shares shares shares shares shares shares shares shares Grant date 23 5 05 23 11 06 24 4 07 21 6 07 21 6 07 29 6 07 17 9 07 17 9 07 17 9 07 Share price at grant date 298p 406p 399.75p 401p 401p 392p 356.25p 356.25p 356.25p Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p Shares under option at grant date 546,408 891,367 875,025 159,887 159,888 250,958 267,737 137,080 137,080 Vesting period years 3.0 3.0 3.0 1.5 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.1 4.1 Expected volatility n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected life years 3.0 3.0 3.0 1.5 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.1 4.1 Risk free rate n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield 4.7% 4.0% 4.4% 4.4% 4.4% 4.5% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Expected forfeiture rate pa 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Fair value per option 258.8p 359.9p 350.6p 375.5p 351.8p 342.9p 309.9p 321.3p 290.6p 1 Long-term incentives include the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Management Share Plan, the Restricted Share Award and the Restricted Share Scheme.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over an appropriate period, consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise from the date of grant.
The vesting period represents the contractual period to the earliest vesting date.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
109 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 28.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Share Share premium Other Retained Total capital account reserves earnings equity m m m m m Group note 26 note 29 At 1 January 2006 32.9 142.0 8.8 194.8 360.9 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.2 5.2 Fair value gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Tax on share-based payments 0.3 0.3 Net gains recognised directly in equity 8.7 5.5 14.2 Profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Total recognised income and expense for year 8.7 97.3 106.0 Share-based payments: Value of services provided 2.8 2.8 Settlement of share awards 2.6 2.6 Vesting of shares 1.2 1.2 Dividends 53.4 53.4 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.1 1.9 2.0 At 1 January 2007 33.0 143.9 1.1 238.9 416.9 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.6 5.6 Fair value losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 6.1 6.1 Tax on share-based payments 0.4 0.4 Net gains losses recognised directly in equity 9.2 6.0 3.2 Profit for the year 114.7 114.7 Total recognised income and expense for year 9.2 120.7 111.5 Share-based payments: Value of services provided 4.9 4.9 Settlement of share awards 4.1 4.1 Vesting of shares 2.3 2.3 Dividends 65.3 65.3 Issue of equity placing 3.3 129.7 133.0 Costs incurred in share issue 4.3 4.3 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2007 36.3 269.5 5.8 295.1 595.1 110 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 28.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY continued Share Share premium Other Retained Total capital account reserves earnings equity m m m m m Company note 26 note 29 At 1 January 2006 32.9 142.0 34.5 79.1 288.5 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.2 5.2 Fair value gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Tax on share-based payments 0.4 0.4 Net gains recognised directly in equity 8.7 5.6 14.3 Profit for the year 27.6 27.6 Total recognised income and expense for year 8.7 33.2 41.9 Share-based payments: Value of services provided by Company and subsidiary employees 2.8 2.8 Settlement of share awards 2.6 2.6 Dividends 53.4 53.4 Transfer from other reserves to retained earnings 34.8 34.8 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.1 1.9 2.0 At 1 January 2007 33.0 143.9 8.4 93.9 279.2 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.6 5.6 Fair value losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 6.1 6.1 Tax on share-based payments 0.3 0.3 Net gains losses recognised directly in equity 9.2 5.9 3.3 Profit for the year 68.7 68.7 Total recognised income and expense for year 9.2 74.6 65.4 Share-based payments: Value of services provided by Company and subsidiary employees 4.9 4.9 Settlement of share awards 4.1 4.1 Dividends 65.3 65.3 Issue of equity placing 3.3 129.7 133.0 Costs incurred in share issue 4.3 4.3 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2007 36.3 269.5 0.8 104.0 409.0 111 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 29.
OTHER RESERVES Hedging Own shares Total reserve held reserve other reserves Group m m m At 1 January 2006 4.5 4.3 8.8 Fair value gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Vesting of shares in Restricted Share Scheme 1.2 1.2 At 1 January 2007 4.2 3.1 1.1 Fair value losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 6.1 6.1 Vesting of shares in Restricted Share Scheme 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2007 5.0 0.8 5.8 Hedging reserve From 1 January 2005, the Group achieved hedge accounting such that the hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The reserve also includes the unamortised portion of a hedging reserve which arose, in the absence of hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement, on transition to IFRS of 0.4 million at 31 December 2007 2006: 0.7 million.
This element of the hedging reserve is being amortised through the income statement in a way so as to reflect how the item that was being hedge accounted under UK GAAP has affected profit or loss in the year.
Own shares held reserve The own shares held reserve comprises the cost of the shares in Cattles plc held by the employee benefit trust to meet obligations under the Groups long-term incentive plans.
The shares were acquired by the trust in the open market using funds provided by the Company.
Shares held in trust Nominal value Number m At 1 January 2006 1,432,953 0.1 Awarded by the trust 430,930 At 1 January 2007 1,002,023 0.1 Awarded by the trust 720,282 0.1 At 31 December 2007 281,741 The market value of the own shares held at 31 December 2007 was 0.8 million 2006: 4.4 million.
As at 31 December 2007, the shareholders authority for the Company to purchase its own shares, as approved in Resolution 9 at the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2007, remained valid.
112 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 29.
OTHER RESERVES continued Capital Total Hedging reduction Special Merger other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves Company m m m m m At 1 January 2006 4.5 8.8 26.0 4.2 34.5 Fair value gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Transfer to retained earnings 8.8 26.0 34.8 At 1 January 2007 4.2 4.2 8.4 Fair value losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 6.1 6.1 At 31 December 2007 5.0 4.2 0.8 Merger reserve The merger reserve has arisen over numerous years in relation to past acquisitions.
This reserve is considered non-distributable.
RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION TO CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Profit before taxation 165.2 132.2 68.4 26.5 Adjustments for: Dividend income 72.4 31.3 Profit on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 0.5 0.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6.6 6.8 0.1 0.1 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.6 3.6 0.1 Share-based payments 3.1 1.5 1.0 1.8 Fair value movements on derivatives 0.4 1.6 0.4 1.6 Increase in loans and receivables 738.7 431.6 Increase in inventories 5.4 3.7 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 3.8 13.1 0.4 0.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 15.5 65.1 2.5 4.3 Increase decrease in borrowings 9.9 0.9 9.9 0.9 Increase in provisions 0.4 0.2 Decrease in retirement benefit obligation 1.7 3.4 1.7 3.4 Cash in out flow from operations 537.4 376.2 8.6 8.4 The amount of interest paid and received excluding that recognised in interest income during the year was as follows: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Interest paid 123.4 101.8 122.2 99.6 Interest received 4.4 4.0 151.8 112.2 113 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 31.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
Defined contribution post-employment benefit plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution personal pension plans for new employees and for existing employees who are not members of the defined benefit scheme.
The expense recognised by the Group and the Company for the defined contribution plans is 1.6 million 2006: 1.2 million and 0.2 million 2006: 0.1 million respectively.
Defined benefit post-employment benefit plan The Group and Company operates a funded defined benefit scheme for certain employees, providing benefits based on final salary.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
The scheme was closed to new applicants from 1998.
The retirement benefit obligation included in the balance sheet is analysed as: 2007 2006 m m Present value of plan liabilities 72.9 78.1 Fair value of plan assets 58.8 54.3 Retirement benefit obligation 14.1 23.8 The amounts charged in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Current service cost i 1.4 1.5 Interest cost 3.9 3.8 Expected return on plan assets 3.8 3.3 Past service cost ii 2.0 Total defined benefit pension expense note 8 1.5 i Current service cost is net of employee contributions.
ii The past service cost reflected the change in commutation benefits available to members following an amendment to the scheme rules, which arose from the change in pension legislation effective from 6 April 2007 A-Day.
The defined benefit pension expense is included in staff costs in the income statement.
The total return on plan assets was 4.3 million, 0.5 million in excess of that assumed 2006: the total return was 6.4 million, 3.1 million in excess of that assumed.
The cumulative actuarial gains and losses before deferred tax recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Net actuarial gains recognised in the year 8.0 7.5 Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised at start of year 3.0 10.5 Cumulative net actuarial gains losses recognised at end of year 5.0 3.0 114 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 31.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS continued Principal actuarial assumptions used 2007 2006 % % Inflation rate 3.3 3.1 Expected rate of salary increases i 4.8 4.6 Expected rate of pension increases ii 3.2 3.1 Discount rate 5.8 5.1 Proportion of members that will take maximum tax free cash allowance on retirement 75.0 75.0 Expected return on plan assets 7.2 7.0 Analysed as: Equities 8.2 8.0 Bonds 5.0 4.8 Cash 5.5 5.0 2007 2006 Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond 65: Men 20.7 19.2 Women 23.2 22.2 Number of years a future pensioner currently aged 50 is expected to live beyond 65: Men 21.7 20.1 Women 24.0 23.1 i In addition, allowance is made for scale of age related promotional increases.
ii In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The expected return on plan assets assumptions reflect the actual split of the plans assets into the different types of underlying investments and are based on the following: Equities The best estimate return on the funds equity portfolio based on an asset model provided by the funds investment advisers.
Bonds Gross redemption yields on both government and corporate bonds at the balance sheet date, weighted by the holding in each class.
Cash Yield on long-term cash investments at the balance sheet date.
Sensitivities The sensitivity of plan liabilities and pension expense to changes in certain key assumptions are as follows: Estimated Estimated increase increase Assumption Assumption change Impact on % m Discount rate Reduce by 0.5% Plan liabilities 10 7.8 Pension expense 30 0.4 Expected rate of salary increases Increase by 0.5% Plan liabilities 1 1.0 Pension expense 15 0.2 Changes in the present value of the plan liabilities are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Present value of plan liabilities at start of year 78.1 81.4 Current service cost 1.4 1.5 Interest cost 3.9 3.8 Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 Past service cost 2.0 Actuarial gain 7.5 4.4 Benefit payments 3.3 2.5 Present value of plan liabilities at end of year 72.9 78.1 115 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 31.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 54.3 46.7 Expected return on plan assets 3.8 3.3 Return on assets in excess of that assumed 0.5 3.1 Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 Contributions by the employer 3.2 3.4 Benefit payments 3.3 2.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 58.8 54.3 The fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Equities 40.1 38.1 Fixed interest bonds 18.2 15.5 Cash 0.5 0.7 58.8 54.3 The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, other than within the UK equity index tracking funds held, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The history of the plan is as follows: 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m Present value of plan liabilities 72.9 78.1 81.4 67.3 Fair value of plan assets 58.8 54.3 46.7 38.4 Retirement benefit obligation 14.1 23.8 34.7 28.9 Experience gain loss on defined benefit obligation 7.5 4.4 11.4 5.2 Experience gain on plan assets 0.5 3.1 4.6 1.5 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 8.0 7.5 6.8 3.7 Members contribute at the rate of either 3% or 5% of pensionable salaries, depending on their membership status.
The estimated amount of employee contributions for 2008 is 0.3 million.
The participating employer companies make normal contributions of 3.4 times members contributions such that the estimated amount of normal employer contributions for 2008 is 1.0 million.
In addition, the Company has entered into an agreement with the pension scheme whereby it will make additional shortfall contributions of 2.2 million per annum.
Therefore, the estimated total amount of employer contributions for 2008 is 3.2 million.
Work in respect of the actuarial valuation of the fund as at 31 March 2007 is currently in progress and the Company and trustees will agree the funding target and contributions during 2008.
Impact of IFRIC 14 Work is currently being undertaken to establish how interpretation IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset minimum funding requirements, which is effective from 1 January 2008, will impact on the value of the Group and Companys retirement benefit obligation going forward.
This assessment will take account of the latest actuarial valuation and the new schedule of contributions to be agreed in 2008, however it is expected that the adoption of IFRIC 14 will have no material financial impact as at 1 January 2008.
116 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 32.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS At the balance sheet date the Group and Company had total future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 Land and Motor Land and Motor Land and Motor Land and Motor buildings vehicles buildings vehicles buildings vehicles buildings vehicles m m m m m m m m Future lease payments: Within one year 5.7 2.9 6.1 3.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 In two to five years 10.4 3.3 12.4 2.7 0.4 0.6 0.2 After five years 3.5 4.8 19.6 6.2 23.3 5.9 0.7 0.1 0.7 0.3 The following amounts were recognised in the income statement during the year: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Lease payments 13.9 13.7 0.3 0.3 33.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company remains as guarantor of a proportion of the leases of properties held and utilised by Homestyle Group plc formerly Rosebys PLC entered into when that company was a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking.
The maximum liability under these guarantees amounts to 0.5 million 2006: 0.7 million.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Groups payroll is administered by a subsidiary undertaking with the relevant payroll charges being recharged to the parent company and fellow group companies.
The subsidiary undertaking does not make any charge for providing these services.
The Company provides borrowing facilities for its subsidiary undertakings, for which a financing charge is levied each month.
This charge is based upon the Companys average cost of borrowing.
The Company also levies a management fee to certain of its subsidiary undertakings in relation to providing them with certain services, such as internal audit services.
This management fee is calculated on a cost incurred basis.
The Company is provided with IT services by one of its subsidiary undertakings for which a management charge is incurred.
The charge is calculated on a cost incurred basis.
The following related party transactions were carried out by the Company with its subsidiary undertakings during the year: 2007 2006 m m Lending of funds 712.9 336.8 Intra-group finance income 150.2 113.5 Management fee central services 0.3 1.3 Management charge IT services 0.1 0.1 Receivables due from and payables to subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 18 and note 22 respectively.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 8.
117 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 35.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity Welcome Financial Services Welcome Financial Services Limited, trading as: Welcome Finance Monthly instalment personal loans and hire purchase credit Welcome Car Finance Direct distribution car retailer Shopacheck Financial Services Weekly home collected credit The Lewis Group The Lewis Group Limited Debt collection and investigation services C L Finance Limited Debt purchase Cattles Invoice Finance Cattles Invoice Finance Limited Invoice finance Cattles Invoice Finance Oxford Limited Invoice finance All the above companies are wholly owned.
They operate in the United Kingdom and are registered in England with the exception of The Lewis Group Limited, which is registered in Scotland.
Companies which are dormant or whose operations are insignificant have been excluded.
118 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
