OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION F FI IN NA AL L D DI IV VI ID fide EN ND D P PA AY YM ME EN NT T D fide ET TA AI IL LS S S SH HA AR RE EH HO OL LD fide ER R S SE ER RV VI IC CE ES S A AN ND D H HE EL LP PL LI IN NE E A list of the key dates leading to the payment of the final dividend Computershare Investor Services PLC operates a facility whereby is set out below: shareholders in Cattles plc are able to access their shareholdings over the internet.
Shareholders can access this service on Shares quoted ex-dividend 26 March 2008 Computershares website, www.
Record date 28 March 2008 Shareholders will need their shareholder reference number, Last date for receipt of Dividend which is printed on their share certificate or tax voucher, to gain Reinvestment Plan mandates access to this information.
to be included for the final dividend 21 April 2008 Payment of final dividend 13.10p net 13 May 2008 Shareholders who change address, want to have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account, have a D DI IV VI ID fide EN ND D R RE EI IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T P PL LA AN N query on their shares, or who otherwise require information The Dividend Reinvestment Plan Plan allows shareholders to about their shareholding should contact the Customer reinvest their cash dividend in shares bought on the London Stock Information Unit at Computershare Investor Services PLC on the Exchange through a specially arranged share dealing service.
Alternatively, they should write to Computershare Investor The Plan is run and administered by the Companys Registrars, Services PLC at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
For legal reasons, the Plan BS99 7NH, indicating that they are a Cattles plc shareholder.
is available only to shareholders resident in the UK excluding the Channel Islands, be they individuals or corporate shareholders.
If 2 20 00 08 8 C CA AL LE EN ND DA AR R shareholders have not previously completed a mandate and wish A list of the expected key dates in the 2008 financial calendar is to participate in the Plan, they should contact the Registrars set out below: online at www.
com investor uk or by telephone on 0870 889 4021.
Annual General Meeting 9 May 2008 New mandates must be received by close of business on 21 April Interim Management Statement 9 May 2008 2008 to be included in the Plan for the final dividend.
Final dividend payment 13 May 2008 If shareholders choose to join the Plan, their cash dividend will be Interim Results Announcement 28 August 2008 used to buy Cattles plc ordinary shares.
They will be charged a dealing commission of 0.5% of the value of shares purchased and Interim dividend payment 10 October 2008 will be required to pay stamp duty reserve tax at the prevailing Interim Management Statement 23 October 2008 rate currently 0.5%.
D DI IV VI ID fide EN ND D M MA AN ND DA AT TE E Using the BACS system, shareholders may choose to have their dividends paid electronically into their bank or building society account.
This process ensures that the amount of the dividend is passed directly into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
Confirmation of these details will be contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted or emailed to shareholders registered addresses at the time of payment.
This voucher should be kept for future reference.
E EL LE EC CT TR RO ON NI IC C C CO OM MP PA AN NY Y C CO OM MM MU UN NI IC CA AT TI IO ON NS S Instead of receiving printed documents through the post, shareholders can now receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Notice of Annual General Meeting and other shareholder documents electronically, as soon as they are published.
An online version of this Annual Report and Financial Statements is available on the Cattles plc website, www.
co. uk, and can be found in the Investor Centre section, alongside copies of prior year reports.
Shareholders can view, download or print all of the documents or only those pages in which they are particularly interested.
Shareholders are also able to appoint a proxy someone to vote for them at shareholder meetings electronically.
Shareholders who would like to sign up for electronic communications should log onto www.
com cattlesplc and then use the option to express register for Investor Centre where they can manage their shareholding online.
It is simple to register and only takes a few minutes.
Once registered, when the Company issues a document or communication to shareholders, shareholders will receive an email containing a link to a page of the Cattles plc website which contains the issued document or communication.
119 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
