REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS R Re eg gi is st te er re ed d O Of ff fi ic ce e J Jo oi in nt t S St to oc ck kb br ro ok ke er rs s Kingston House HSBC Bank plc Centre 27 Business Park 8 Canada Square Woodhead Road London Birstall E14 5HQ Batley CitiGroup Global Markets Limited WF17 9TD CitiGroup Centre Registered in England 33 Canada Square Number 543610 Canary Wharf London I In nd fide ep pe en nd fide en nt t A Au ud di it to or rs s E14 5LB  LLP Benson House F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l P Pu ub bl li ic c R Re el la at ti io on ns s 33 Wellington Street Financial Dynamics Ltd. Leeds Holborn Gate LS1 4JP 26 Southampton Buildings London I In nt te er rn na al l A Au ud di it to or rs s WC2A 1PB Deloitte & Touche LLP 1 City Square R Re eg gi is st tr ra ar rs s Leeds Computershare Investor Services PLC LS1 2AL PO Box 82 The Pavilions P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al l B Ba an nk ke er rs s Bridgwater Road The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Bristol HSBC Bank plc BS99 7NH Barclays Bank PLC Lloyds TSB Bank plc S So ol li ic ci it to or rs s Walker Morris Kings Court 12 King Street Leeds LS1 2HL DLA Piper UK LLP 3 Noble Street London EC2V 7EE 120 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 AT A GLANCE C CA AT TT TL LE ES S P PL LC C G GE EO OG GR RA AP PH HI IC C C CO OV five ER RA AG GE E W WE EL LC CO OM ME E F FI IN NA AN NC CE E A A R RI IS SK K.. M MA AN NA AG GE ED D.. B BU US SI IN NE ES SS S M MO OD fide EL L B Br ra an nc ch he es s Cattles plc is a financial services group In the consumer credit market, Welcome Welcome Finance lends to individuals with non-standard Managing credit risk is integral to the business model specialising in providing consumer non-standard refers to customers who Financial Services credit profiles providing unsecured and secured personal principally through effective bespoke credit scoring and credit to non-standard customers in may currently not have access to The Lewis Group loans, and hire purchase for cars.
Its interest rates are centralised underwriting processes, and the close customer the UK.
We also provide debt recovery mainstream facilities typically due to Cattles Invoice priced to reflect the credit risk exposure.
relationships maintained by the national network of local services to external clients and our perceived shortcomings in their Finance community branches.
consumer credit business, and working employment, residency or credit It has a well-developed national network of introducers.
capital finance for small and mediumhistories.
We give them an opportunity sized businesses.
We also have a car to build or repair their credit profile.
retail operation, which is the largest Effective risk management is introducer of hire purchase customers paramount in all our markets, and to our consumer credit business.
underpins our strategy for continued strong growth.
D Di is st tr ri ib bu ut ti io on n A A s si ig gn ni if fi ic ca an nt t f fa ac ct to or r i in n W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ce e s s b bu us si in ne es ss s m mo od fide el l i is s t th he e Customers are reached through a well-established national O OU UR R B BU US SI IN NE ES SS SE ES S r re el la at ti io on ns sh hi ip ps s i it t h ha as s b bu ui il lt t w wi it th h i it ts s e ex xt te er rn na al l d di is st tr ri ib bu ut ti io on n c ch ha an nn ne el ls s.. network of: W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Se er rv vi ic ce es s T Th he e L Le ew wi is s G Gr ro ou up p C Ca at tt tl le es s I In nv vo oi ic ce e F Fi in na an nc ce e Brokers and introducers Car dealerships Strategic partners Nationwide branches Online C Cu us st to om me er r S Sa al le es s a an nd d S Se er rv vi ic ce e C Ce en nt tr re es s C CS SS SC Cs s P Pr re e- -t ta ax x p pr ro of fi it t R Re ec ce ei iv va ab bl le es s P Pr re e- -t ta ax x p pr ro of fi it t R Re ec ce ei iv va ab bl le es s P Pr re e- -t ta ax x p pr ro of fi it t R Re ec ce ei iv va ab bl le es s W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ce e e en ns su ur re es s c co on ns si is st te en nc cy y o of f c cr re ed di it t q qu ua al li it ty y b by y s sc co or ri in ng g a an nd d Credit risk assessment of the customer is based on: u un nd fide er rw wr ri it ti in ng g a ap pp pl li ic ca at ti io on ns s c ce en nt tr ra al ll ly y i in n i it ts s t th hr re ee e C CS SS SC Cs s.. 1 16 64 4.. 8 8m m 2 2, 6 61 11 1.. 8 8m m 1 10 0.. 2 2m m 1 13 32 2.. 9 9m m 2 2.. 5 5m m 9 99 9.. 4 4m m Bespoke scorecards tailored to the non-standard market based on Welcome Finances own data Welcome Financial Services comprises three The Lewis Group is a UK leader in debt recovery and Cattles Invoice Finance provides working capital businesses: investigation services, serving both external clients finance to small and medium-sized businesses.
It Affordability tests and proofs of both income and identity and Welcome Financial Services.
It is one of the operates through six regional offices in England Policy rules Welcome Finance UKs largest buyers of non-performing debt.
Shopacheck Once assessment is complete, products are allocated according Welcome Car Finance to the applicants risk rating.
Welcome Finance, the principal lending business, serves more than 500,000 customers, providing direct repayment loans from 183 branches across the UK.
Its product range includes unsecured personal loans, second charge secured loans and hire purchase for cars.
Details on its business B Br ra an nc ch h N Ne et tw wo or rk k model are set out on the opposite page.
W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ce e s s e ex xt te en ns si iv five e n ne et tw wo or rk k o of f c co om mm mu un ni it ty y b br ra an nc ch he es s Relationships are managed as follows: Shopacheck provides short-term home collected e ex xi is st ts s s so o t th ha at t s st ta af ff f c ca an n g ge et t t to o k kn no ow w c cu us st to om me er rs s p pe er rs so on na al ll ly y, loans to some 260,000 customers through 52 Branches employ local people with good communication skills, b bu ui il ld d r re el la at ti io on ns sh hi ip ps s w wi it th h t th he em m, a an nd d m ma an na ag ge e a ar rr re ea ar rs s s sh ho ou ul ld d branches.
who understand local conditions t th he ei ir r c ci ir rc cu um ms st ta an nc ce es s c ch ha an ng ge e..
Welcome Car Finance sells around 14,000 used cars Once a loan has been advanced, customers are contacted by a a year from 12 sites and is the largest introducer of customer account manager to begin establishing a close working hire purchase business to Welcome Finance.
relationship This ensures a prompt response if they experience difficulty with repayments and enables a practical plan to be agreed to help them avoid arrears Second charge secured loan T Th he e L Le ew wi is s G Gr ro ou up p O OU UR R C CU US ST TO OM ME ER RS S Mr B, 46, is a fireman and his wife, 42, is a part-time Credit card company, E plc, has several million If an account misses two payments, it is passed to a Local Management Branch.
The great majority of our customers over 500,000 teacher.
They live in Norwich and have a joint customers and each month it sells accounts which have loans from Welcome Finance.
They borrowed 9,000 over are in default.
Lewis buys these, at a discount, and advance these direct repayment loans to 10 years for home improvements.
They applied collects the sums outstanding.
L Lo oc ca al l M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t B Br ra an nc ch he es s L LM MB Bs s L Lo oc ca al l C Co ol ll le ec ct ti io on n U Un ni it ts s L LC CU Us s T Th he e L Le ew wi is s G Gr ro ou up p The cover of this Report is printed on Sovereign Silk 100% ECF pulp, sourced from customers who are in employment, have a bank through a broker, who referred them to Welcome account and can repay by direct debit.
Most are in sustainable managed forests.
Environmental care system ISO 14001 is in place with At the LMBs, specialist account managers At the LCUs, account managers agree new The Lewis Group is able to collect accounts Finance as they had limited equity in their home.
Bank F plc also has customers in default but it regard to waste management.
The mill is EMAS registered.
All chemicals are treated socio-economic groups C and D, but a significant work with customers to ensure regular repayment plans with customers.
At this stage economically and manages any necessary prefers to outsource the collection of overdue proportion come from higher categories.
in an aerobe and anaerobe purification plant and discharges are kept to a minimum.
This enables the accounts the business is focused on recovering the legal action.
Lewis carries out this work and charges Hire purchase to be transferred back to the Branch Network outstanding balance and would no longer the bank a commission on the amounts it collects.
These are some typical customer scenarios: The text pages of this Report are printed on Challenger Offset paper which is Mr C, 38, is an office manager in Watford earning and prevents them from falling into more consider these customers for additional credit.
A large proportion of the raw material used is the by-product from other 25,000.
He borrowed 6,000 over four years to serious arrears.
production processes i. e. saw mill waste and waste which results from forest buy a car from Welcome Car Finance.
He applied C Ca at tt tl le es s I In nv vo oi ic ce e F Fi in na an nc ce e W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ce e thinning.
The mill holds not only ISO 2002 but also the ISO 14001 accreditation for direct to Welcome Car Finance after seeing an G Ltd specialises in wholesale organic food Unsecured personal loan their environmental management systems, which include an active policy on advert on TV.
products, turning over 1.5 million a year.
Its If a customers financial difficulties prove to be If a customer is unable to make a meaningful Mr A, 25, is a mechanic who is single and lives with sustainable forestry management.
business was growing and the company had to longer-term, the account is transferred to a Local payment at the LCU, their account is transferred his parents in Manchester.
He earns 17,500 and take on 12 additional employees to meet demand, Collection Unit.
S Sh ho op pa ac ch he ec ck k borrowed 2,000 over three years to pay for a Sovereign Silk and Challenger Offset paper are certified according to the rules for the but wholesalers were requiring extended credit Mrs D, 36, is an administrator and single.
She holiday and repay an existing loan.
He applied Forest Stewardship Council.
and G Ltd needed access to extra capital.
Cattles bought her East London council house.
She earns online after being rejected by his bank.
Invoice Finance provided flexible finance, securing 300 a week, paid into her bank account.
She Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr advances against invoices.
borrowed 200 over 30 weeks to fund Christmas 44 0 20 7610 6140 shopping.
co. uk Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 CATTLES PLC WHAT WE DO Cattles plc Kingston House Centre 27 Business Park Woodhead Road Birstall Batley WF17 9TD W We e o op pe er ra at te e i in n t th he e U UK K f fi in na an nc ci ia al l s se er rv vi ic ce es s Registered in England: Number 543610 m ma ar rk ke et ts s o of f n no on n- -s st ta an nd da ar rd d c co on ns su um me er r c cr re ed di it t, d fide eb bt t r re ec co ov five er ry y a an nd d i in nv vo oi ic ce e f fi in na an nc ce e t th ha at t Tel: 01924 444466 Fax: 01924 442255 p pr ro ov vi id fide e s si ig gn ni if fi ic ca an nt t o op pp po or rt tu un ni it ti ie es s www.
co. uk f fo or r s su us st ta ai in ne ed d g gr ro ow wt th h.. C Ca at tt tl le es s p pl lc c Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 O OU UR R P PL LA AT TF FO OR RM M F FO OR R G GR RO OW WT TH H We have been able to sustain strong income and profit growth because our experience, commitment, people and infrastructure enable us to benefit from market opportunities in both buoyant and tough economic conditions.
We aim to increase shareholder value significantly by becoming the UKs leading non-standard financial services group.
By deploying six key strengths: RISK.
C CO ON NS SE ER RV VA AT TI IV five EL LY Y R RO OB BU US ST T B BE EI IN NG G C CL LO OS SE E T TO O M MO OT TI IV VA AT TE ED D, W WE EL LL L I IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T I IN N B BR RE EA AD DT TH H O OF F M MA AN NA AG GE ED D U UN ND fide ER RW WR RI IT TI IN NG G O OU UR R C CU US ST TO OM ME ER RS S T TR RA AI IN NE ED D P PE EO OP PL LE E S SY YS ST TE EM MS S A AN ND D D DI IS ST TR RI IB BU UT TI IO ON N F FU UN ND DI IN NG G P PR RO OC CE ES SS SE ES S C CH HA AN NN NE EL LS S Our philosophy is to We have refined our Knowing customers We have consistently High quality IT helps We reach our lend short and borrow credit scoring and personally is what our benefited from us recruit and select customers through long, ensuring we have underwriting processes community branches investment in our customers, matching our network of brokers, funding headroom, over many years, so our are for.
They help us to people: their skills their credit status and strategic partners secured ahead of need acceptance of credit risk build relationships and experience enable needs to our products.
and introducers, our and hedged against is rigorously controlled.
and manage arrears us to manage risk Our scalable systems nationwide branches interest rate volatility.
if customers successfully while will grow with our and online.
culture underpinning our businesses has helped us ensure robust credit quality over many years.
The Groups key strengths are demonstrated in each of its businesses.
An illustration of these strengths, as well as an explanation of the benefits they bring, is shown on pages 2 to 7.
00 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
