20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 19 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 19 Report of the Directors continued Payment of Suppliers Going Concern It is the payment policy for the financial year to 30 June 2008 The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the to obtain the best possible terms for all business and, going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the assets of the therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
There were no trade creditors at By order of the Board 30 June 2007.
D J Trickett ACIS For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Secretary 29 August 2007 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable of affairs of the Company and of the net revenue of the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Company for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the directors are required to: Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking select suitable accounting policies and then apply them reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud consistently: and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The accounts are published on a website maintained by the Companys manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
