20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 39 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 39 Notes to the Accounts continued 16 Financial instruments a Management of risk The Companys financial instruments may comprise: Equity and non-equity shares and convertible bonds that are held in accordance with the Companys investment objective as set out on the inside front cover: Debenture stocks, preference and preferred ordinary stocks, term loans and bank overdrafts, the main purpose of which is to raise finance for the Companys operations: and Cash, liquid resources and short term debtors and creditors that arise directly from the Companys operations.
Derivative transactions which the Company may enter into comprise quoted options on shares held within the portfolio, or futures contracts on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio the purpose of which is to provide protection against falls in the capital values of the holdings.
The Company may also write options on shares represented in the portfolio where such options are priced attractively relative to the Portfolio Managers longer term expectations for the relevant share prices.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are due to fluctuations in market prices, cash flow interest rates, liquidity, credit and foreign currency rates.
The Board regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
These policies have remained constant throughout the year under review.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about the future prices of financial instruments used in the Companys operations.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
It is the Boards policy to hold an appropriate spread of investments in the portfolio in order to reduce the risk arising from factors specific to a particular sector.
Stock selection is a factor which acts to reduce market risk.
The Portfolio Manager actively monitors market prices throughout the year and reports to the Board, which meets regularly to consider investment strategy.
Cash flow interest rate risk The Company finances its operations through its debenture stocks, preference and preferred ordinary stocks and term loans as well as bank overdrafts and any retained revenues arising from operations.
The Company may borrow in a variety of currencies at both fixed and floating rates of interest via its multi-currency facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland.
The Board imposes borrowing limits to ensure that gearing levels are appropriate to market conditions and reviews these on a regular basis.
Liquidity risk The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable securities that can be sold to meet funding commitments if necessary.
The maturities of the Companys existing borrowings are set out in paragraph c below.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through the use of short-term borrowing and overdraft facilities.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will fail to discharge an obligation and cause the other party to incur a financial loss.
This is mitigated by the Manager reviewing the credit ratings of broker counterparties.
The risk attached to dividend flows is mitigated by Portfolio Manager research of potential investee companies.
The Companys custodian is responsible for the collection of income on behalf of the Company and their performance is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
The maximum credit risk at 30 June 2007 was 3,482,000 30 June 2006: 2,824,000 consisting of dividends receivable from equity shares.
20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 40 40 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 Notes to the Accounts continued 16 Financial instruments continued Credit risk continued The Company lends securities from its portfolio, within limits set by the Board.
It receives collateral of a value greater than the value of the securities lent, usually, in respect of UK securities, in the form of Crest DBVs.
This collateral is subject to concentration limits, to a margin of a set percentage and to regular revaluation.
Foreign currency risk A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in overseas securities and their sterling value could be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Board considers hedging against foreign currency movements affecting the value of the investment portfolio and takes account of this risk when making investment decisions.
b Risk profile of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets The majority of the Companys financial assets are equity shares and other investments which are non interest-bearing and do not have a stated maturity date.
The Company holds convertible investments to the value of nil.
The floating rate assets of the Company comprise cash at bank and cash on deposit of 8,268,000 2006: 6,415,000.
Financial liabilities The interest rate profile of the Companys financial liabilities at 30 June 2007 was: Weighted Weighted Fixed rate average Fixed rate average financial Weighted period for financial Weighted period for liabilities average which interest liabilities average which interest 000 interest rate rate is fixed 000 interest rate rate is fixed 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Debenture stocks 46,000 9.27% 12.6 years 46,000 9.27% 13.6 years Preference and preferred ordinary stocks without a redemption date 1,888 9.42% 1,888 9.42% 47,888 47,888 c Maturity of the Companys financial liabilities All of the Companys redeemable financial liabilities at 30 June 2007 mature in more than five years.
The Company had committed undrawn short term loan facilities of 20,000,000 at 30 June 2007 2006: 20,000,000 which are subject to regular review by the providers.
Standard commercial covenants, relating amongst other things to a maximum level of borrowings and maximum value of any single investment, apply to the Companys loan facility.
A breach of these convenants may result in any loan drawn down becoming repayable immediately.
