ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 76 Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION TAXATION The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost Current UK corporation tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that standards.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
throughout the year and the preceding year in dealing with items that Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 a separate or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet not been presented.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from INVESTMENTS the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
PENSION COSTS A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore For dened benefit schemes, the amount charged to the profit and loss recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be account in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences LEASES can be deducted.
Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas are capitalised as tangible xed assets and are depreciated over the subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
The capital elements have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected repayments outstanding.
Hire purchase transactions are dealt with to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their useful lives.
to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is account over the period of the lease.
measured on a discounted basis to reect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on THE COMPANY AS LESSOR which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as The discount rates used reect the post-tax yields to maturity that receivables at the amount of the Companys net investment in the leases.
can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reect and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
a constant periodic rate of return on the Companys net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
DEBT Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in Tangible xed assets are stated at cost or valuation.
Depreciation is respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the provided on a straight line basis, to reduce the carrying value to the period.
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account estimated residual value at the point of sale, at the following annual rates: over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Land nil DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fixtures and ttings 10% to 20% The Company may enter into derivative financial instruments, in Plant and machinery 5% to 20% particular interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward Leasehold property over the period of the lease exchange contracts to manage the financial risks arising from the Buildings 2% business activities and the nancing of the groups activities.
Motor vehicles 20% to 33% The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for Residual value is calculated on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by group policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets or liabilities measured at their fair value on the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not full the criteria for hedge accounting contained in FRS 26 are recognised immediately in the income statement.
76 Bodycote annual report 2007 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 77 HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Company maintains documentation of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument at the inception of a hedging transaction together with the risk management objective and the strategy underlying the designated hedge.
The Company also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values or cash ows of the hedged items.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classied as fair value hedges or cash ow hedges: Fair Value Hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash Flow Hedge Cash ow hedging matched the cash ows of hedged items against the corresponding cash ow of the derivative.
The effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in equity and the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that financial instrument.
Any ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
