ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 75 Independent Auditors' Report to the members of Bodycote International plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Bodycote International plc for the year ended 31 December 2007, which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 11.
These parent on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to policies set out therein.
the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments We have reported separately on the group financial statements of made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial Bodycote International plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the on the information in the directors' remuneration report that is described company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys company financial statements are free from material misstatement, members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than of information in the parent company financial statements.
the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION In our opinion: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Board the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, Report on Remuneration and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 December 2007: Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration to be audited in parent company financial statements.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion Deloitte & Touche LLP the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company financial Chartered Accountants and Manchester statements.
The information given in the Directors' Report includes Registered Auditors 26 February 2008 the information presented in the Group Business Review crossreferred from the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
