Glossary of Terms and Definitions Actual Gearing The excess of non current assets divided by net assets Articles basis adjusted to value debt at market where applicable.
Asset Cover The value of a companys net assets available to repay a certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available by the amount required to repay the specific security.
Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share this is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Dividend Cover Earnings per share divided by Dividends per share expressed as a ratio.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Net Asset Value The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose includes current and long-term liabilities.
To calculate the net asset value per ordinary or capital share, the current repayment values of all the other classes of share are treated as liabilities.
The net asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces the net asset value per share.
Potential Gearing The excess of total assets less current liabilities excluding prior charges divided by net assets Articles basis adjusted to value debt at market where applicable.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Price Earnings Ratio The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit growth potential.
Prior Charges The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or preferred capital shares, irrespective of the time until repayment.
Total Assets Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior charges as defined above.
Total Expense Ratio Ratio of expenses as a percentage of average Shareholders funds.
Total Return Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes X-Dividend.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg.
quarter end, half year or year end date.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 49
