Information for Investors Direct There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although Investors can buy and sell shares in Dunedin Income Growth investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Investment Trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Duty through a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
The Alternatively shares can be bought directly through Aberdeens annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, calculated Investment Plan for Children, Investment Trust Share Plan, monthly and deducted from income half yearly.
Under current Investment Trust ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children PEP Transfer Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan for PEPs are an easy way to make medium and long term tax Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of efficient investments in the stock markets.
All capital gains are investment companies under its management including Dunedin free of tax.
Since 5 April 1999 no further subscriptions can be Income Growth Investment Trust PLC.
Anyone can invest in the made into a PEP.
You can however transfer existing PEPs to Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and family friends.
The minimum lump sum for a PEP transfer is 1,000 and All investments are free of dealing charges on the initial purchase of is subject to a minimum per trust of 250. shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments Investment Trust Pension start at 150 per trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to save for month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently retirement by investing in Dunedin Income Growth Investment 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction Trust PLC.
The Investment Trust Pension offers a Personal on how long an investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, and Pension Plan.
Contributions can be made regularly or by lump regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing sums, and there are low minimum investment amounts.
Aberdeen Asset Managers in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in nominee Trust Information accounts.
If investors would like details of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC or information on the Childrens Plan, Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan Share Plan, ISA or Pension please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in write to Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC can be purchased.
Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP or e-mail at There are no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, inv.
Details are also available on although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on www.
some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments Keeping you Informed start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per The Companys share price appears under the heading month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently Investment Companies in the Financial Times, and other 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction national newspapers.
on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at For internet users, detailed data on Dunedin Income Growth any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all Investment Trust PLC, including price, performance information investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have full and a monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website voting and other rights of share ownership.
co. uk and the TrustNet website www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 40 AAM offers both a Mini and Maxi stocks and shares ISA, through for trust information.
which shares in Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC can be purchased.
Lloyds TSB Registrars also have a website www.
co. uk which includes a page entitled Shareholder Services, Maxi ISA which gives Shareholders an insight into their shareholding.
The An investment of up to 7,000 in Dunedin Income Growth website also has information about how to register a change of Investment Trust PLC can be made in the tax year 2007 2008. name and what to do if you have lost your share certificate.
Mini ISA AAM offers a Mini ISA which will enable investors to invest up to Note 4,000 in the tax year 2007 2008.
Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause the 46 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC value of shares and the income from them to fall as well as rise and Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any tax investors may not get back the amount they originally invested.
relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and PEPs, may be changed by future legislation.
As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
For information concerning your shareholding, please contact: For information on the Savings Plan, ISA and PEP, please contact: Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration The Causeway Block C, Western House Worthing Lynchwood Business Park West Sussex BN99 6DA Peterborough, PE2 6BP Telephone: 0870 601 5366 Telephone 0500 00 00 40 Textphone: 0870 600 3950 Website: www.
co. uk Pension Administrator Edinburgh Pension Centre Literature Request Service Capita SIP Services For literature and application forms for the Managers 141 Castle Street investment trust products, please contact: Salisbury Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 Wiltshire SP1 3TB Email: aam@lit-request.
com Telephone: 0800 137 079 The above information has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 47
