Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual prepare the financial statements on the going report and the financial statements in accordance with concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume applicable law and regulations.
that the Company will continue in business.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for keeping proper statements for each financial period.
Under that law accounting records which disclose with reasonable they have elected to prepare the financial statements accuracy at any time the financial position of the in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial Practice.
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets The financial statements are required by law to give a of the Company and hence for taking reasonable true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are required to: are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration select suitable accounting policies and then apply Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that them consistently: comply with that law and those regulations.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards and integrity of the corporate and financial information have been followed, subject to any material included on the Companys website.
Legislation in departures disclosed and explained in the financial the UK governing the preparation and dissemination statements: and of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Capital Gains Tax Information The market value of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 March 1982 was 58.49p.
The price does not apply to shares held in Scottish United Investors plc at 31 March 1982 which were subsequently acquired by the Company.
Page 24 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007
