Notice of Meeting ordinary shares of 25p each shares in such manner Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and and upon such terms as the Directors of the Company eighteenth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh may from time to time determine, provided that: Investment Trust plc will be held at the Weston Link, i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital Edinburgh on Tuesday 17 July 2007 at 2.30pm, of the Company as at the date of the passing of for the following purposes: this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share ORDINARY BUSINESS shall be 25p: 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and Auditors iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may and the financial statements for the year ended 31 be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 105% March 2007. of the average of the middle market quotations as 2.
To approve a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 3.
To re-elect Mr Scott Dobbie a Director of the Company.
Official List for the shares for the five business days 4.
To re-elect Mrs Nicola Ralston a Director of the Company.
immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 5.
To re-election Mr William Samuel a Director of the iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the Company.
authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier 6.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report of 16 January 2009 or at the conclusion of the Annual for the year ended 31 March 2007.
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008, 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the save that the Company may, prior to such expiry Company.
enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the under such authority which would or might be remuneration of the Auditors for the year to executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such 31 March 2008. authority and the Company may make such a purchase in pursuance of any such contract or SPECIAL BUSINESS contracts as if the authority hereby conferred To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following had not expired.
Special Resolution By order of the Board 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in Fidelity Investments International accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act Secretary 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within 8 June 2007 the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of any of its NOTES: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be at that time.
Changes to the entries in the register of a member of the Company.
members after 6.00pm on 15 July 2007 or, in the event 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members with these financial statements.
Completion and return 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder be disregarded in determining the rights of any person from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with provisions in any enactment, the Articles of Association any power of attorney or other authority if any under of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the to be received not less than 48 hours before the time Fidelity ISA PEP, and for holders through the Aberdeen of the meeting.
Investment Trust Share Plan, the Aberdeen Investment 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Trust PEP, the Aberdeen ISA and the Edinburgh Fund Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those Managers Investment Trust Pension.
These are explained shareholders entered on the register of members of the in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have Company as at 6.00pm on 15 July 2007 or, in the event received with this report.
that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 5.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment will 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be available prior to the Annual General Meeting.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 47 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager of this Company Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 A Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account can be as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
an excellent way to get more from your investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and gains tax on your returns.
inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA the Designation Box on the Share Plan application form.
A special leaflet on investing for children up to 4,000 in a Mini stocks and shares ISA through investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
The minimum investment in the Fidelity Investment Charges There are no charges for buying, selling Trust ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or holding shares through the Fidelity Investment or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
Trust Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share purchases.
However, 5 in 1 ISA The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is one of if you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, five investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can invest there may be an initial charge of up to 3% to pay in the entire range through the Fidelity 5-in-1 ISA, which for advice.
spreads your money equally across all five investment trusts.
This offers a simple and convenient way to invest MOVING EXISTING SHARES TO FIDELITY across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia giving you a If you have an Edinburgh Investment Trust plc ISA or PEP broadly diversified portfolio in a single investment.
"with the previous manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers ""EFM"", you will have been advised that its Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity management has been transferred to Aberdeen Asset ISA is 3.5%."
"The annual ISA administration charge for Management ""Aberdeen""."
You can transfer your The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in a Fidelity ISA is Aberdeen ISA or PEP to Fidelity who will pay the exit 0.5% VAT.
There is an additional annual charge of fee charged by Aberdeen.
0.5% VAT when you invest through a Financial Adviser.
Alternatively, if you have invested through the Aberdeen MOVING MONEY FROM Investment Trust Share Plan formerly the EFM InvestIT PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS Saving Scheme or the EFM LEAP Saving Scheme you If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment can move your shares to the Fidelity Investment Trust companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and Share Plan and Fidelity will cover any exit fees charged invest in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc without by Aberdeen.
This transfer could be particularly useful losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and for investors who wish to restart a monthly savings plan it can be a great way to give your portfolio a new focus, no longer available with the Aberdeen Investment or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Trust Share Plan and want all their holdings together Please note that during the transfer your money will in one account.
not be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth during this time.
An additional bonus for investors transferring holdings from Aberdeen is that Fidelity will accept monthly Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is 3.5%.
savings contributions below its normal minimum You will not have to pay any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
The annual Holding shares directly If you have shares in The charge is as shown in the Investing inside an ISA section.
Edinburgh Investment Trust plc that you bought through a broker or share shop you can transfer them into the INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already you to reinvest your dividends and make further used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient way to You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan put money into The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Page 48 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc INVESTING ONLINE that shares are registered on the CREST system in You can invest online in The Edinburgh Investment Trust your own name and everything relating to your shares plc shares via www.
Fidelity dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct Share Network enables you to buy or sell shares in any to you and you will be able to attend and vote at listed company during normal London Stock Exchange shareholder meetings in your own name.
Personal trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings day.
Shares in Share Network can either be held direct which must be held in the name of the ISA managers or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and nominee under ISA regulations.
You will be shown a live price and be able has a very competitive cost structure.
Share purchases or to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade.
Stamp the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
Unlike many online share dealing There is an account administration fee of 5 per month, services, Fidelity Share Network gives you personal however many different shares you own and whatever CREST membership for shares held direct.
KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc appears daily in The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The Herald.
Price and performance information is also available at itseit.
co. uk Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2422.
Calls are charged at a premium rate.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, near St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
For the purposes of Sections 21 and 25 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the content of this report has been approved by Fidelity Investments International.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investees should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid Logo are trademarks of Fidelity International Limited.
CB31342 na The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 49
