Financial Calendar FINANCIAL CALENDAR This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, Edinburgh on Tuesday 17 July 2007 at 2.30pm.
Shareholders are asked to reply on the enclosed form if they will be attending the meeting.
Following the meeting shareholders will have the opportunity to meet the Board and Manager informally.
Tea and biscuits will be served.
Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments, debenture stock interest payments and the issue of the annual and interim reports may normally be expected in the following months: June Annual report and accounts published.
1 Interest paid on 11 2% debenture stock.
July Annual General Meeting and final dividend paid.
3 September Interest paid on 7 4% debenture stock.
November Interim report for half-year to 30 September published.
1 December Interest paid on 11 2% debenture stock.
February Second interim dividend paid.
3 March Interest paid on 7 4% debenture stock.
May Third interim dividend paid.
Preliminary figures and recommended final dividend for year announced.
Page 50 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 87% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
SGS-COC-0620 used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
