Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-third Annual General Meeting of Electra Private Equity PLC will be held at 12.00 noon on Wednesday 6 February 2008 in The Great Hall at The Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square off Wood Street, London EC2Y 5BL for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the Directors and Auditors and the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2007 which is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To declare a special dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 which the Directors recommend should be at the rate of 25p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr RA Armstrong as a Director of the Company.
To elect Ms C Bowe as a Director of the Company.
To elect Ms L Webber as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr JP Williams as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Brian Williamson as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, Resolution 11 as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 as Special Resolutions: 11.
Ordinary resolution for the approval of an increase to the limit on ordinary remuneration of Directors.
That for the purposes of Article 74 A of the Company's Articles of Association the maximum aggregate amount of remuneration payable to the Directors, to be divided among the Directors as they may agree, shall be 450,000 per annum.
Special resolution for the approval of electronic and website communications and related amendments to the Articles of Association.
That: a the Company be authorised, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, to send, convey or supply all types of notices, documents or information to the shareholders by means of electronic equipment for the processing including digital compression, storage and transmission of data, employing wires, radio optical technologies, or any other electromagnetic means, including by making such notices, documents or information available on a website: and b the Articles of Association of the Company be amended with effect from the end of this Meeting in accordance with the printed document produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
72 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13.
Special resolution for the approval of amendments to the Articles of Association in relation to Directors conflicts of interest.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by the insertion into the Articles of Association of new Article 93A in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification.
Special resolution to renew share buyback authority.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,522,718 or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : and v unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 6 May 2009 or the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board of Directors PJ Dyke, Secretary, Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 5 December 2007 73 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Information Notes 1 Members of the Company who are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power must reach the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6LX, not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting or adjourned Meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the Meeting or adjourned Meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
3 In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those holders of ordinary shares entered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 4 February 2008 the Specified Time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the Specified Time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at a time which is not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
5 Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every member and every duly appointed proxy who is present in person shall have one vote.
On a poll vote, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
6 Arrangements will be put in place at the Annual General Meeting so that, on a poll, if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member completes a poll card, then one of those corporate representatives is treated as the designated corporate representative to cast or withhold votes on the poll and the other corporate representatives for that member give directions to that designated corporate representative as to how votes are to be cast or withheld.
7 The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting, and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the Meeting: a the current Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company: and b a copy of the Articles of Association of the Company as proposed to be amended by Resolutions 12 and 13: and c the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors.
8 Short biographical details regarding Mr RA Armstrong, Ms C Bowe, Ms L Webber, Mr JP Williams and Sir Brian Williamson are contained on page 68.
9 The total number of issued ordinary shares in the Company on 5 December 2007, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document, is 36,842,687.
74 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 APPENDIX Part 1: Proposed changes to the Articles of Association pursuant to Resolution 12 Article 2 Interpretation and consequential amendments Certain definitions and expressions used through the current Articles of Association have been changed to align them with definitions used in the Companies Act 2006.
Article 55 Demand for a poll This amendment provides that, if a poll is taken, it may be by electronic means or ballot or voting papers or ticket or any combination thereof, as the Chairman may direct.
Article 66 Form of proxy Changes have been made to deal with the authentication of proxy appointments made by electronic means.
Article 67A Appointment of proxy The Directors are authorised to accept proxy appointments by electronic means, in respect of uncertificated shares through the CREST system.
Article 85 - Nomination of director for election Changes have been inserted to deal with the authentication of electronic communications.
Articles 140, 141, 142, 143, 143A, 143B and 143C Communications with Members The new headings of this group of Articles and relevant amendments reflect the new company communications provisions of the Companies Act 2006 dealing with communications with members.
These provisions prescribe methods of communication by and to the Company for documents or information authorised or required by any provision of the Companies Acts and provide companies with greater flexibility in how they choose to recognise authentication of documents sent to them by shareholders.
The Articles apply the company communications provisions to all communications with shareholders and override statutory deemed notice provisions to as to bring them into line with the existing articles.
Part 2: Proposed changes to the Articles of Association pursuant to Resolution 13 New Article 93A confers power on the Directors to authorise any matter which would or might otherwise constitute or give rise to a breach of the duty of a Director under Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Any such authorisation is effective only if the interested director s is are not counted in the quorum for the Directors meeting at which the matter is considered, and the vote s if any of the interested director s on any such authorisation is are ignored.
Any such authorisation shall extend to any actual or potential conflict of interest which may reasonably be expected to arise out of the matter so authorised.
The Directors may impose conditions or limitations on any authorisation and the interested Director is required to comply with any obligations imposed on him pursuant to any such authorisation.
The new Article will take effect on 1 October 2009, or any earlier date as Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 comes into effect.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Electra Private Equity PLC, you should pass this document and other relevant accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was made, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
75 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Information Notice of Annual General Meeting
