Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 38 to 46 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 23 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 March 2008.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will also be offered to shareholders.
Items 4 and 5: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Malcolm Robert Harris and David James Ritchie will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on page 28 of the report and accounts.
Items 6 and 7: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 6 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 7 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Items 8 and 9: Amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company These notes explain the material differences between the current and the amended Articles of Association of the Company.
Changes of a minor, conforming, clarifactory or purely technical nature have not been mentioned specifically.
The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act represents a major reform of UK companies legislation and some provisions of the 2006 Act are already in force with further provisions currently scheduled to be implemented in October 2008 and October 2009.
The proposed amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company reflect certain changes in the law, in particular governing electronic communications and directors conflicts of interest which have or will come into force as a result of the 2006 Act.
In addition, since the adoption of the current Articles on 7 May 2002, the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003 and it is proposed that the Company amends its Articles in line with the Regulations to allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares, should it wish to do so.
Item 8 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 1985 are in the main amended to bring them into line with the relevant provisions of the 2006 Act.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights and provisions regarding general meetings of the Company.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Definition and interpretation Certain definitions and expressions used in the current Articles have been changed to align them with the definitions and expressions in the 2006 Act and these changed expressions and definitions have been reflected throughout the Articles.
Directors age limits The current Articles contain a provision requiring a directors age to be disclosed in the notice convening a meeting at which the director is proposed to be elected or re-elected if she he has attained the age of 70 years or more.
This provision has been removed from the amended Articles as a consequence of the provisions of the 2006 Act and new age discrimination legislation.
Directors fees In terms of non-executives, there are currently three independent non-executive directors plus the Chairman serving on the Board.
In view of the forthcoming appointment of a Deputy Chairman, the increasing time commitment and market remuneration trends, the Board believes it is appropriate to recommend an increase in the overall limit of fees that may be paid to all the non-executive directors from 250,000 per annum to 350,000 per annum in order to provide flexibility for the future.
Individual non-executive directors fees will continue to be reviewed every two years.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The 2006 Act has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
The amended Articles reflect the wider provisions of the 2006 Act.
Form of resolution The current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended, as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the 2006 Act.
Provisions relating to the written resolution procedure for members have been removed from the amended Articles as the 2006 Act abolishes the written resolution procedure for members of public companies.
76 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Provisions relating to electronic communications The 2006 Act contains new provisions relating to electronic and or website communications between companies and their members.
These provisions enable companies to use electronic communications as the default method of communication with members by placing documents or information on a website unless members specifically elect to receive hard copies of such documents or information.
The Company needs to amend its Articles to take advantage of these provisions.
Before implementing the default provisions as detailed above, the Company would write to all members to ask them individually to exercise their choice as to whether they wish to continue to receive documents or information in hard copy form or via the Companys website.
This request will explain that, if the Company has not received a response within 28 days beginning with the day of the request, the member will be taken to have agreed to receive documents or information via a website.
Even if a member fails to respond, and is taken to agree to website publication, he or she can ask for a hard copy of any document or information from the Company at any time.
The Company will send the copy within 21 days of receiving the request.
The Company will send a notification to members to alert them to the publication of the relevant document or information when it is made available on the website.
Members may choose to receive this notification in hard copy or electronic form.
The new arrangements are expected to save considerable administrative, printing and postage costs, whilst preserving members rights to receive hard copy documents or information if they wish.
Provisions relating to treasury shares It is proposed that the Articles be amended in line with the Regulations to allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares.
These proposed amendments will allow the Company to take advantage of the Regulations under which treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee shares schemes.
No dividends will be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting rights will attach to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be treated as if cancelled.
Variation of class rights The current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the 2006 Act.
The relevant provisions of the current Articles have therefore been amended in line with the 2006 Act.
Votes of members Under the 2006 Act proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as on a poll, whereas under the current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
Proxies may also speak, as well as attend and vote, at general meetings under the 2006 Act.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
A poll may not be demanded on the election of the chairman of a general meeting under the 2006 Act.
The amended Articles reflect these new provisions.
Item 9 Provisions relating to conflicts of interest The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties.
The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
This requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Currently, the directors discuss such proposed positions with the Company before taking them up and there are actions that the directors can take to avoid a breach of their duties if an actual conflict arises.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
This change to the Articles, to take effect from 1 October 2008, would give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the Articles should, from 1 October 2008, contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest should arise.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Board.
Item 10: Authority to allot shares Resolution 10 renews the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The authority sought is limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,584,926 being 24.14% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 14 March 2008.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 14 March 2008.
The Board has no specific plans to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes, and the operation of any scrip dividend offer and any scrip dividend mandate scheme.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 77 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 11: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 11 seeks to renew the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to make limited allotments of ordinary shares for cash without application of the statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments of ordinary shares for cash proportionately to existing shareholders first pursuant to Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power would provide the directors with the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise, so that: i the Company can follow normal practices in the event of a rights issue: and ii ordinary shares may be issued wholly for cash other than proportionately to existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 3,020,753.50 which represents 5% of the Company's total ordinary share capital in issue as at 14 March 2008.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Pre-Emption Group, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company will be issued for cash on a pre-emptive basis during any three year period.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by Resolution 11 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 12: Authority to purchase own shares In accordance with Article 45 the directors are seeking renewal of the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 12,083,014 of its own shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 14 March 2008.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of making such purchases but, in view of the strong balance sheet position, would like to have the flexibility to consider such purchases in the future.
Any purchase of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price would be 50 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2009.
As at 14 March 2008 there were options over 946,632 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.78% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 0.87% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
78 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
