Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2008 Annual General Meeting of Bovis Homes Group PLC will be held at the New Connaught Rooms, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA on Friday 9 May 2008 at 11.30am for the following purposes: Resolution Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 and the reports of the directors and auditors.
2 To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2007.
3 To declare the final dividend recommended by the directors.
4 To re-appoint Malcolm Robert Harris as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
5 To re-appoint David James Ritchie as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
6 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
7 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Special business As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: 8 Special resolution That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended with effect from the conclusion of the meeting by making the alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association produced to the meeting marked A and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
9 Special resolution That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended with effect from 1 October 2008 by making the alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association produced to the meeting marked B and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
10 Ordinary resolution That, in substitution for the existing authority for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act conferred upon the directors by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 11 May 2007, the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Act to allot relevant securities which for the purposes of this resolution shall have the same meaning as in Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted pursuant to the authority given by this resolution shall be up to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,584,926 being equal to the unissued share capital of the Company: ii subject as provided in sub-paragraph iii below, such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but may be previously revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the Company: iii such authority shall permit and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of such authority, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and to allot such securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired: and iv in relation to the grant of any rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company, the reference in this resolution to the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted is to the maximum amount of shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
11 Special resolution That the directors pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by ordinary resolution number 10 above be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotments, such power to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier but so as to enable the Company, before the expiry of such power, to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and to enable the directors to allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred thereby had not expired and to be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an invitation or offering by way of rights to ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,020,753.50 being 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 73 Notice of meeting continued 12 Special resolution That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in its capital PROVIDED THAT: i this authority shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 50 pence each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed an aggregate of 12,083,014 ordinary shares and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which is executed wholly or partly after such time : ii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses : and iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 50 pence in each case exclusive of expenses.
Bovis Homes Group PLC By Order of the Board The Manor House, North Ash Road M T D Palmer New Ash Green, Longfield Company Secretary Kent DA3 8HQ 7 April 2008 Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register no later than 6.00pm on 7 May 2008 will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Changes to entries on the register after 6.00pm on 7 May 2008 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii A registered member of the Company may appoint one or more proxies in respect of some or all of their ordinary shares to exercise the members rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the Company instead of the member.
A registered member appointing multiple proxies must ensure that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares and must specify on the form of proxy the number of shares in relation to which that proxy is appointed.
Members or their duly appointed proxies are requested to bring proof of identity with them to the meeting in order to confirm their identity for security reasons.
iii The form of proxy must be executed by or on behalf of the member making the appointment.
A corporation may execute the form s of proxy either under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer, attorney or other authorised person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend and vote on the same occasion.
iv A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
v In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that 1 if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and 2 if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in 1 above.
Corporate representatives who have been appointed to attend the meeting are asked to register with the staff of the Companys Registrar, Computershare, present at the meeting as early as possible prior to the beginning of the meeting in order to assist them with administration of the voting process set out above.
vi Participants of the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf on a poll.
vii The proxy form and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol BS99 3FA or received via the Computershare website, www-uk.
com full details of the procedures are given on the website not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person instead of his proxy or proxies.
The Company will announce the level of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions once the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands, except where a poll is called.
When announcing a decision on a poll, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions.
If a member returns paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
74 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Notice of meeting continued viii To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. ix Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
x As at 14 March 2008 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 120,830,148 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 14 March 2008 are 120,830,148. xi Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the AGM should do so using the following means: 1 by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: or 2 by writing to the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol BS99 3FA.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting or in any related documents including the Chairmans Statement, the Annual Report 2007 and the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xii The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours, on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.00am until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of the directors service contracts: b copies of the terms and conditions of appointment for each non-executive director: c the register of directors interests: and d a copy of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, together with comparison documents showing i the changes proposed to be made to the Articles of Association pursuant to Resolution 8 and ii the changes proposed to be made to the Articles of Association pursuant to Resolution 9. xiii Data protection statement: Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys Registrar may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
