Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eigth Annual General securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such Meeting of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at Butchers authority had not expired.
Hall, 87 Bartholomew Close, London EC1 on Tuesday 13 May 13.
THAT the proposed amendments to the rules of The 2008 at 12 noon UK time for the following purposes: F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan summarised in the appendix to this notice be and are hereby Ordinary Business approved and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: all such things as may be necessary to carry the same into effect.
To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the To be proposed as special resolutions: Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2007.
That the Articles of Association be amended by making the alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association 2.
To declare a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share on the produced to the meeting marked A and initialled by the ordinary shares of the Company.
chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification.
Elect Nick MacAndrew, who retires at the first Annual General 15.
That, with effect from 1 October 2008 or such later date as Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 shall be brought into 4.
Elect Gerhard Roggemann, who retires at the first Annual force, the Articles of Association be amended by making the General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
alterations relating to Directors interests marked on the print of the Articles of Association produced to the meeting marked B 5.
Elect Sir Adrian Montague, who retires at the first Annual and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
Re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce, who retires by rotation, as a 16.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 95 Director.
of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to 7.
Re-elect Dick fide Beus, who retires by rotation, as a Director.
the exercise of any such existing power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered, 8.
Re-elect Jeff Medlock, who retires by rotation, as a Director.
pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act, a to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year authority under section 80 of the Act conferred on the Directors of ended 31 December 2007. the Company and contained in resolution 12 as set out in the 10.
Appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company to hold notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company at office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at which which this resolution is proposed and b sell relevant shares as Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to defined in section 94 5 of the Act in the Company if immediately authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in section 162A 3 of the Act treasury Special Business shares for cash as defined in section 162D 2 of the Act, in To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: each case as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11.
Re-approve and renew the authorisation of the terms of the 164,074.92, such power to expire on the conclusion of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Friends Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009, Provident plc dated 4 October 2004, such approval and renewal unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in to expire on the earlier of i the conclusion of the Annual General general meeting, provided that such power shall be limited to the Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 or ii Friends allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares: Providents interest in the ordinary shares of the Company falling below 30 per cent.
i in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement 12.
THAT, in substitution for any existing authority under section between the Company and Friends Provident plc dated 4 October 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice 2004, provided that resolution 11 relating to the re-approval and to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the renewal of such Relationship Agreement as set out in the notice Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally and convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 80 of the Act, to this resolution is proposed is passed: allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up ii in order to satisfy options or awards under any share scheme to an aggregate nominal amount of 164,074.92 such authority to for employees or share incentive plan approved by the Company expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the in general meeting: Company to be held in 2009, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the iii in connection with an offer of equity securities open for Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors of the Company to make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might the holders of ordinary shares in the share capital of the Company require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as practicable to authority and the Directors of the Company may allot relevant their respective holdings of such ordinary shares but subject to 164 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors of the Notes i A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to Company may consider necessary or expedient to deal with legal appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his her behalf.
problems under or resulting from the application or apparent A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not application of the laws of any territory or the requirements of any appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or in proxy need not be a member of the Company.
connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever : ii A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the meeting is enclosed with these Accounts.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy should and be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the iv other than pursuant to sub-paragraphs i, ii and iii of this Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy or a copy certified in resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 24,785.28: accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions contained therein, so as to reach the Companys registrars, at the address stated thereon, not later than 12 noon save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of UK time on 11 May 2008. such power, make an offer or enter into an agreement which iii The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to lodge their would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury proxy electronically, details of how to lodge a proxy electronically are set out on page 38. shares to be sold after the expiry of such power and the Directors iv Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary of the Company may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above and in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had voting should he or she wish to do so.
v Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those Ordinary Shareholders entered on the register of members of the Company as at 6 p. m. UK time on 11 May 2008 or, 17.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members at 6 p. m. 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice UK time on the day falling two days before the date of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Ordinary Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally the register of members after 6 p. m. UK time on 11 May 2008 or, on the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members at 6 p. m. UK time on authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the the day falling two days before the date of any adjourned meeting, shall be Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of 163 3 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: vi If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not have a right to i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby appoint a proxy.
authorised to be purchased is 49,227,399 being vii If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights: approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital You may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of of the Company excluding treasury shares as defined in the Company who has nominated you to have information rights Relevant section 162A 3 of the Act as at 20 March 2008 : Member to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement between you 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses : and and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid viii In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate the average of the middle market quotations as derived from shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, ordinary shares for the five business days immediately then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate preceding the date of purchase: representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting instructions to that held in 2009, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on Company in general meeting, save that the Company may at any proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract or procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority which ix As at 20 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the this notice the Company's issued share capital consisted of 492,273,990 expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each, carrying one vote each and 800,000 cumulative preference shares of 1 each, carrying no right to attend or vote at shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
the meeting which is the subject of this notice.
Therefore, total voting rights in the Company as at 20 March 2008 are 492,273,990.
"By order of the Board x Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at the W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA registered office of the Company and at the Companys head office during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public Secretary holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the meeting, 80 George Street and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the meeting: Edinburgh EH2 3BU a the amended rules of the F&C Asset Management plc Long Term 20 March 2008 Remuneration Plan: b the articles of association of the Company marked ""A"": c the articles of association of the Company marked ""B"": and d the executive Directors' service contracts and non-executive Directors' letters of appointment."
165 APPENDIX Summary of the proposed amendments to The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan 1.
Proposed amendments to provisions relating to cessation of a participants employment Under the rules of the LTRP, the Board can grant two different The provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above will be forms of awards, namely: amended so as to provide that if, prior to vesting, a participant i awards that are subject to performance targets which must be ceases employment with the F&C Group: satisfied if they are to vest Performance Awards : and i by reason of redundancy: or ii awards that are not subject to such performance targets ii in any other circumstance which the Board considers makes it Deferred Awards.
appropriate for the following provisions to be applied, Under the rules of the LTRP, no Deferred Awards can be granted then any Deferred Awards subject to these amended provisions to F&Cs executive directors.
see below which are held by that participant will vest immediately in full and the Ordinary Shares to which he becomes 2.
Current LTRP provisions relating to cessation of a entitled as a result of such vesting will be released to him as soon participants employment as reasonably practicable thereafter.
For the avoidance of doubt, Currently, the provisions of the LTRP relating to the cessation of a any Performance Awards held by a participant who ceases participants employment with the F&C Group can be summarised employment in the above circumstances will continue to vest on as follows: the third anniversary of grant if and to the extent that the i If a participant leaves the F&C Groups employment for any applicable performance targets have been satisfied and will reason other than as specified below prior to the vesting of normally be reduced to reflect the fact that the individual ceased any award which will normally take place on the third employment during the vesting period.
anniversary of grant then his awards will lapse immediately.
For the avoidance of doubt, no other amendments will be made ii If, prior to vesting, the participant dies or ceases employment to the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above.
by reason of injury, ill-health or disability then his awards will vest immediately provided that, in the case of a Performance 4.
Application of proposed amendments Award, such vesting will only occur if, and to the extent that, The amendments summarised at paragraph 3 above will apply to the applicable performance targets have been satisfied at that all Deferred Awards granted on or prior to 31 December 2008. time.
Deferred Awards granted after 31 December 2008 will normally be subject to the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above.
iii If, prior to vesting, the participant ceases employment by The Board will, however, have the discretion to specify at the reason of redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age or date of grant that a Deferred Award granted after 31 December because the participants employing company or part of the 2008 will instead be subject to the amended provisions described business in which he is employed is transferred out of the at paragraph 3.
F&C Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board, then his awards will continue to vest on the third anniversary of Defined terms grant.
In the case of a Performance Award, such vesting will In this appendix, the following words and expressions bear the only occur if, and to the extent that, the applicable following meanings unless the context requires otherwise: performance conditions have been satisfied.
In addition, the amount of an award which vests in these circumstances will Board the board of directors of F&C, or a duly authorised normally be reduced in line with the proportion of the vesting committee thereof: period that had elapsed at the time the participant ceased to F&C F&C Asset Management plc: be employed by the F&C Group.
F&C Group the group of companies of which F&C is the holding company: LTRP The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan: and Ordinary Shares ordinary shares of 0.1p each in the capital of F&C.
