Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements in records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are required by law and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position the corporate and financial information included on the and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the provides in relation to such financial statements that references in preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
