28 Notes continued 6 Directors remuneration $ million 2007 2006 2005 Total for all directors Emoluments 26 14 18 Gains made on the exercise of share options 2 12 Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 10 14 8 Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
This includes an ex gratia superannuation payment of $3 million 2006 and 2005 nil and compensation for loss of office of $1 million 2006 and 2005 nil.
Pension contributions Six executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK employees by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
One US executive director participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2007.
Office facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of office and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Details of individual directors remuneration are given in the summary directors remuneration report on pages 30-31.
Independent auditor s statement To the members of BP p. l. c. We have examined the groups summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing BP Annual Review 2007 in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within BP Annual Review 2007 with the consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report contained within BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in BP Annual Review 2007 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 9 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements, contained within BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007, describe the basis of our opinions on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2007 contained within BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 22 February 2008 The auditors have issued an unqualified audit report on BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007 containing no statement under Section 237 2 or Section 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occured to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website or any other website they are presented on.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
