The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Given the nature of the groups activities, information on the fair value of an asset is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers are taking place.
Consequently, unless indicated otherwise, the recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charges described below is value in use.
The group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash ow model.
The future cash ows are usually adjusted for risks specic to the asset and discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 11% 2006 10% and 2005 10%.
This discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
In some cases the groups pre-tax discount rate may be adjusted to account for political risk in the country where the asset is located.
Exploration and Production During 2007, the Exploration and Production segment recognized impairment losses of $292 million.
The main elements were a charge of $112 million relating to the cancellation of the DF1 project in Scotland, a $103 million partner loan write-off as a result of unsuccessful drilling in the West Shmidt licence block in Sakhalin and a $52 million write-off of the Whitney Canyon gas plant in US Lower 48 driven by managements decision to abandon this facility.
In addition, there were several individually insignicant impairment charges, triggered by downward reserves revisions, amounting to $25 million in total.
These charges were largely offset by reversals of previously recognized impairment charges amounting to $237 million.
Of this total, $208 million resulted from a reassessment of the decommissioning liability for damaged platforms in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
The remaining $29 million related to other individually insignicant impairment reversals, resulting from favourable revisions to the estimates used in determining the assets recoverable amounts.
During 2006, Exploration and Production recognized a net gain on impairment.
The main element was a $340 million credit for reversals of previously booked impairments relating to the UK North Sea, US Lower 48 and China.
These reversals resulted from a positive change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment losses were recognized.
This was partially offset by impairment losses totalling $137 million.
The major element was a charge of $109 million against intangible assets relating to properties in Alaska.
The trigger for the impairment test was the decision of the Alaska Department of Natural Resources to terminate the Point Thompson Unit Agreement.
We are defending our right through the appeal process.
The remaining $28 million relates to other individually insignicant impairments, the impairment tests for which were triggered by downward reserves revisions and increased tax burden.
During 2005, Exploration and Production recognized total charges of $266 million for impairment in respect of producing oil and gas properties.
The major element of this was a charge of $226 million relating to elds in the Shelf and Coastal areas of the Gulf of Mexico.
The triggers for the impairment tests were primarily the effect of Hurricane Rita, which extensively damaged certain offshore and onshore production facilities, leading to repair costs and higher estimates of the eventual cost of decommissioning the production facilities and, in addition, reduced estimates of the quantities of hydrocarbons recoverable from some of these elds.
The recoverable amount was based on managements estimate of fair value less costs to sell consistent with recent transactions in the area.
The remainder related to elds in the UK North Sea, which were tested for impairment following a review of the economic performance of these assets.
Rening and Marketing The main component of the 2007 impairment charge arose because of a decision to sell our company-owned and company-operated sites in the US resulting in a $610 million write-down of the carrying amount of the sites to fair value less costs to sell.
Following a decision to sell certain assets at our Acetyls plant in Hull, UK, we wrote down the carrying amount of these assets to fair value less costs to sell leading to an impairment charge of $186 million.
Changing marketing conditions led to impairments in Samsung Petrochemical Company, to fair value less costs to sell, and in China American Petrochemical Company amounting in total to $165 million.
The balance relates principally to the write-downs of assets elsewhere in the segment portfolio.
During 2006, certain assets in our Retail and Aromatics & Acetyls businesses were written down to fair value less costs to sell.
During 2005, certain retail assets were written down to fair value less costs to sell.
