Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:00 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1889582011 122 10 Impairment and losses on sale of businesses and xed assets continued Gas, Power and Renewables There were no significant impairments in 2007.
The impairment charge for 2006 relates to certain North American pipeline assets.
The trigger for impairment testing was the reduction in future pipeline tariff revenues and increased ongoing operational costs.
Other businesses and corporate There were no significant impairments in 2007.
The impairment charge for 2006 relates to remaining chemical assets after the sale of Innovene.
The impairment charge for 2005 relates to the write-off of additional goodwill on the Solvay transactions.
Loss on sale of xed assets The principal transactions that give rise to the losses for each business segment are described below.
Exploration and Production The group divested interests in a number of oil and natural gas properties in all three years.
For 2006, the largest component of the loss is attributed to the sale of properties in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf, which included increases in decommissioning liability estimates associated with the hurricane-damaged elds that were divested during the year.
Rening and Marketing For 2007, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were related to the decision to withdraw from the company-owned and company-operated channel of trade in the US and retail churn.
Retail churn is the overall process of acquiring and disposing of retail sites by which the group aims to improve the quality and mix of its portfolio of service stations.
For 2006, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were retail churn.
For Exploration and Production, goodwill has been allocated to each geographic region, that is UK, Rest of Europe, US and Rest of World, and for Rening and Marketing, goodwill has been allocated to the following cash-generating units, namely Rening, Retail, Lubricants and Other.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash ow model.
The future cash ows are usually adjusted for risks specic to the asset and discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 11% 2006 10%.
This discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
In some cases the groups pre-tax discount rate may be adjusted to account for political risk in the country where the asset is located.
The five year business segment plans, which are approved on an annual basis by senior management, are the source of information for the determination of the various values in use.
They contain implicit forecasts for oil and natural gas production, renery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of rened products e. g. gasoline and lubricants, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various environmental assumptions, such as oil prices, natural gas prices, rening margins, rened product margins and cost ination rates, are set by senior management.
These environmental assumptions take account of existing prices, global supply-demand equilibrium for oil and natural gas, other macroeconomic factors and historical trends and variability.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the groups Brent oil price assumption is an average $90 per barrel in 2008, $86 per barrel in 2009, $84 per barrel in 2010, $84 per barrel in 2011, $84 per barrel in 2012 and $60 per barrel in 2013 and beyond 2006 average $65 per barrel in 2007, $68 per barrel in 2008, $67 per barrel in 2009, $66 per barrel in 2010, $64 per barrel in 2011 and $40 per barrel in 2012 and beyond.
Similarly, the groups assumption for Henry Hub natural gas prices is an average of $7.87 per mmBtu in 2008, $8.33 per mmBtu in 2009, $8.26 per mmBtu in 2010, $8.12 per mmBtu in 2011, $8.00 per mmBtu in 2012 and $7.50 per mmBtu in 2013 and beyond 2006 average of $8.10 per mmBtu in 2007, $8.31 per mmBtu in 2008, $7.88 per mmBtu in 2009, $8.21 per mmBtu in 2010, $7.50 per mmBtu in 2011 and $5.50 per mmBtu in 2012 and beyond.
These prices are adjusted to arrive at appropriate consistent price assumptions for different qualities of oil and gas.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:00 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1129701407 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 123 11 Impairment of goodwill continued Exploration and Production The value in use is based on the cash ows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production proles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each producing eld.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production prole of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, the production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced.
As each producing eld has specic reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash ows of the elds are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions agreed by BPs management for the purpose.
Cash outows and hydrocarbon production quantities for the first five years are agreed as part of the annual planning process.
Thereafter, estimated production quantities and cash outows up to the date of cessation of production are developed to be consistent with this.
Consistent with prior years, the review for impairment was carried out during the fourth quarter of 2007 using data that was appropriate at that time.
As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculations made in 2005 and 2006 were used for the 2007 impairment test on the goodwill in each geographical segment as the criteria of IAS 36 were considered to be satisfied: the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount was substantial for Rest of World in 2005 and the UK and the US in 2006: there had been no significant change in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount at the time of the test was remote.
The following table shows the carrying value of the goodwill allocated to each of the regions of the Exploration and Production segment and, where required, the amount by which the recoverable amount value in use exceeds the carrying amount of the goodwill and other non-current assets in the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated.
No impairment charge is required.
The key assumptions required for the value-in-use estimation are the oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate.
To test the sensitivity of the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount of goodwill and other non-current assets the headroom to changes in production volumes and oil and natural gas prices, management has developed rules of thumb for key assumptions.
Applying these gives an indication of the impact on the headroom of possible changes in the key assumptions.
In the prior year, it was estimated that the long-term price of Brent that would cause the total recoverable amount to be equal to the total carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets for individual cash-generating units would be of the order of $31 per barrel for the UK and $28 per barrel for the US, and that no reasonably possible change in oil and gas prices would cause the headroom in Rest of World to be reduced to zero.
Since that time, oil prices have continued to rise and the group has increased its price assumptions as disclosed above.
Management now believes that no reasonably possible change in oil and gas prices would cause the headroom in any of the geographical segments to be reduced to zero.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for the elds and take into account development plans for the elds agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
It is estimated that, if all our production were to be reduced by 10% for the whole of the next 15 years, this would not be sufficient to reduce the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying amounts of the individual cash-generating units to zero.
Consequently, management believes no reasonably possible change in the production assumption would cause the carrying amount of goodwill and other non-current assets to exceed their recoverable amount.
Management also believes that currently there is no reasonably possible change in discount rate that would reduce the groups headroom to zero.
The cost ination rate is assumed to be 2.5% 2006 2.5% throughout the period.
In determining the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash ows for a period of 10 years have been discounted and aggregated with its terminal value.
Rening Cash ows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate 2006 2%.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Rening unit is most sensitive are gross margins, production volumes and the terminal value.
The average value assigned to the gross margin during the plan period is based on a $7.90 per barrel global indicator margin GIM, which is then adjusted for specic renery congurations 2006 $7.25 per barrel.
The average value assigned to the production volume is 850mmbbl a year 2006 850mmbbl over the plan period.
The value assigned to the terminal value assumption is 6 times earnings 2006 6 times, which is indicative of similar assets in the current market.
These key assumptions reect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
The Rening units recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $11.4 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that if the GIM changes by $1 per barrel, the Rening units value in use changes by $7.6 billion and, if there was an adverse change in the GIM of $1.50 per barrel, the recoverable amount of the Rening unit would equal its carrying amount.
If the volume assumption changes by 5%, the Rening units value in use changes by $5.1 billion and, if there was an adverse change in Rening volumes of 95mmbbl a year, the recoverable amount of the Rening unit would equal its carrying amount.
If the multiple of earnings used in the terminal value changes by 1 then the Rening units value in use changes by $1.7 billion.
Management believes no reasonably possible change in the multiple of earnings used in the terminal value would lead to the Rening units value in use being equal to its carrying amount.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:00 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1208693007 124 11 Impairment of goodwill continued Retail Cash ows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 0.9% growth rate 2006 assumption was 1.3% reecting a competitive marketplace within a growing global economy.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Retail unit is most sensitive are unit gross margins, marketing volumes, the terminal value and discount rate.
The weighted average Retail fuel margin used in the plan was 3.1 cents per litre 2006 2.6 cents per litre.
The value assigned to the unit gross margin varies between markets.
For the purpose of planning, each market develops a gross margin based upon the different income streams within the market and other market-specic factors.
In 2007, all markets were provided with the same reference price, which was then adjusted for specic market factors and income streams in each operating unit.
The gross margin assumption quoted this year is the weighted average of the margins used by each operating unit.
The comparative has been prepared on the same basis.
In the prior year each operating unit was provided with a market-specic reference price as a starting point.
The weighted average of these assumptions was disclosed as the gross margin assumption in the prior year.
The average value assigned to the marketing volume assumption is 125 billion litres a year 2006 134 billion litres a year.
The unit gross margin assumptions increase on average by 1% a year over the plan period and marketing volume assumptions grow by an average of 1% a year over the plan period.
The value assigned to the terminal value assumption is 6.5 times earnings 2006 6.5 times, which is indicative of similar assets in the current market.
The Retail units recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $4.1 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that if there is an adverse change in the weighted average fuel margin of 11%, the recoverable amount of the Retail unit would equal its carrying amount.
It is estimated that, if the volume assumption changes by 5% the Retail units value in use changes by $1.8 billion and, if there is an adverse change in marketing volumes of 14 billion litres a year, the recoverable amount of the Retail unit would equal its carrying amount.
If the multiple of earnings used in the terminal value changes by 1 then the Retail units value in use changes by $0.8 billion and, if the multiple of earnings falls to 1 then the Retail value in use would equal its carrying amount.
A change of 1% in the discount rate would change the Retail value in use by $0.9 billion and, if the discount rate increases to 17%, the value in use of the Retail unit would equal its carrying amount.
Lubricants Cash ows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 3% margin growth rate 2006 3%, which is lower than the long-term average growth rate for the first five years.
The terminal value for the Lubricants unit represents cash ows discounted to perpetuity.
For the Lubricants unit, the key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use is most sensitive are operating margin, sales volumes and the discount rate.
The average values assigned to the operating margin and sales volumes over the plan period are 65 cents per litre 2006 53 cents per litre and 3.3 billion litres a year 2006 3.5 billion litres respectively.
These key assumptions reect past experience.
The Lubricants units recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $5.0 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that if there is an adverse change in the operating margin of 14 cents per litre, the recoverable amount of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount.
If the sales volume assumption changes by 5%, the Lubricants units value in use changes by $1.2 billion and, if there is an adverse change in Lubricants sales volumes of 700 million litres a year, the recoverable amount of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount.
A change of 1% in the discount rate would change the Lubricants units value in use by $1.2 billion and, if the discount rate increases to 19% the value in use of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount.
