Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:05 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 552944362 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 143 34 Derivative financial instruments An outline of the groups financial risks and the objectives and policies pursued in relation to those risks is set out in Note 28.
IAS 39 prescribes strict criteria for hedge accounting, whether as a cash ow or fair value hedge or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, and requires that any derivative that does not meet these criteria should be classied as held for trading and fair valued, with gains and losses recognized in profit or loss.
In the normal course of business the group enters into derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its normal business exposures in relation to commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, including management of the balance between oating rate and xed rate debt, consistent with risk management policies and objectives.
Additionally, the group has a well-established entrepreneurial trading operation that is undertaken in conjunction with these activities using a similar range of contracts.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments at 31 December are set out below.
The contracts may be entered into for risk management purposes, to satisfy supply requirements or for entrepreneurial trading.
Certain contracts are classied as held for trading, regardless of their original business objective, and are recognized at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement.
Trading activities are undertaken by using a range of contract types in combination to create incremental gains by arbitraging prices between markets, locations and time periods.
The net of these exposures is monitored using market value-at-risk techniques as described in Note 28.
The following tables show further information on the fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments held for trading purposes.
The fair values at the year end are not materially unrepresentative of the position throughout the year.
Changes during the year in the net fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes were as follows.
This deferred gain is recognized in the income statement over the life of the contract until substantially all of the remaining contract term can be valued using observable market data at which point any remaining deferred gain is recognized in income.
Changes in valuation from this initial valuation are recognized immediately through income.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:06 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1900696956 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 145 34 Derivative financial instruments continued The following table shows the changes in the day-one profits deferred on the balance sheet.
Prices sourced from observable data or market corroboration refers to the fair value of contracts valued in part using active quotes and in part using observable, market-corroborated data, for example, swaps and physical forward contracts.
Prices based on models and other valuation methods refers to the fair value of a contract valued in part using internal models due to the absence of quoted prices, including over-the-counter options.
The net change in fair value of contracts based on models and other valuation methods during the year was a loss of $94 million 2006 $117 million loss and 2005 $130 million gain.
Gains and losses relating to derivative contracts are included either within sales and other operating revenues or within purchases in the income statement depending upon the nature of the activity and type of contract involved.
The contract types treated in this way include futures, options, swaps and certain forward sales and forward purchases contracts.
Gains or losses arise on contracts entered into for risk management purposes, optimization activity and entrepreneurial trading.
They also arise on certain contracts that are for normal procurement or sales activity for the group but that are required to be fair valued under accounting standards.
Also included within sales and other operating revenues are gains and losses on inventory held for trading purposes.
The total amount relating to all of these items was a gain of $376 million 2006 $2,842 million gain and 2005 $838 million gain.
Embedded derivatives Prior to the development of an active gas trading market, UK gas contracts were priced using a basket of available price indices, primarily relating to oil products.
After the development of an active UK gas market, certain contracts were entered into or renegotiated using pricing formulae not directly related to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
In these circumstances, pricing formulae have been determined to be derivatives, embedded within the overall contractual arrangements that are not clearly and closely related to the underlying commodity.
The resulting fair value relating to these contracts is recognized on the balance sheet with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
These contracts are valued using models with inputs that include price curves for each of the different products that are built up from active market pricing data and extrapolated to the expiry of the contracts in 2018 using the maximum available external pricing information.
Additionally, where limited data exists for certain products, prices are interpolated using historic and long-term pricing relationships.
Price volatility data is also an input for the models.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:07 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 2057519047 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 147 34 Derivative financial instruments continued The following table shows the changes during the year in the net fair value of embedded derivatives.
