Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:01 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1483546040 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 127 The group has entered into a number of structured operating leases for ships and in most cases the lease rental payments vary with market interest rates.
The variable portion of the lease payments above or below the amount based on the market interest rate prevailing at inception of the lease is treated as contingent rental expense, but the amounts of such contingent rentals are not significant for the years presented.
The group also routinely enters into bareboat charters, time-charters and spot-charters for ships on standard industry terms.
The most significant items of plant and machinery hired under operating leases are drilling rigs used in the Exploration and Production segment.
In some cases, drilling rig lease rental rates are adjusted periodically to market rates that are inuenced by oil prices and may be signicantly different from the rates at the inception of the lease.
Differences between the rate paid and rate at inception of the lease are treated as contingent rental expense.
Commercial vehicles hired under operating leases are primarily railcars.
Retail service station sites and ofce accommodation are the main items in the land and buildings category.
The terms and conditions of these operating leases do not impose any significant financial restrictions on the group.
Some of the leases of ships and buildings allow for renewals at BPs option.
16 Exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources The following financial information represents the amounts included within the group totals relating to activity associated with the exploration forand evaluation of oil and natural gas resources.
All such activity is recorded within the Exploration and Production segment.
Total fees for 2007 include $7 million of additional fees for 2006 2006 includes $5 million of additional fees for 2005 and 2005 includes $4 million of additional fees for 2004.
Auditors remuneration is included in the income statement within distribution and administration expenses.
The tax services relate to income tax and indirect tax compliance, employee tax services and tax advisory services.
The audit committee has established pre-approval policies and procedures for the engagement of Ernst & Young to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the audit committee in the context of other global companies for cost-effectiveness.
Ernst & Young performed further assurance and tax services that were not prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements and were pre-approved by the committee.
Ernst & Young is engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services were awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young compared with that of other potential service providers.
These services are for a xed term.
