Filename: U54368 doc7.3d Time: 14:49:52 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1127451003 94 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that present fairly the financial position of the group and the financial performance and cash ows of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosure when compliance with the specic requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
State that the company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements and, having a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the groups auditors are unaware, and the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
