Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:08 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -2069079847 152 38 Pensions and other post-retirement benets Most group companies have pension plans, the forms and benets of which vary with conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Pension benets may be provided through dened contribution plans money purchase schemes or dened benefit plans final salary and other types of schemes with committed pension payments.
For dened contribution plans, retirement benets are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee.
For dened benefit plans, retirement benets are based on such factors as the employees pensionable salary and length of service.
Dened benefit plans may be externally funded or unfunded.
The assets of funded plans are generally held in separately administered trusts.
In particular, the primary pension arrangement in the UK is a funded final salary pension plan that remains open to new employees.
Retired employees draw the majority of their benefit as an annuity.
In the US, a range of retirement arrangements are provided.
These include a funded final salary pension plan for certain heritage employees and a cash balance arrangement for new hires.
Retired US employees typically take their pension benefit in the form of a lump sum payment.
US employees are also eligible to participate in a dened contribution 401k plan in which employee contributions are matched with company contributions.
The level of contributions to funded dened benefit plans is the amount needed to provide adequate funds to meet pension obligations as they fall due.
During 2007, contributions of $524 million 2006 $438 million and 2005 $340 million and $97 million 2006 $181 million and 2005 $279 million were made to the UK plans and US plans respectively.
In addition, contributions of $127 million 2006 $136 million and 2005 $140 million were made to other funded dened benefit plans.
The aggregate level of contributions in 2008 is expected to be approximately $500 million.
Certain group companies, principally in the US, provide post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benets to their retired employees and dependants.
The entitlement to these benets is usually based on the employee remaining in service until retirement age and completion of a minimum period of service.
The plans are funded to a limited extent.
The obligation and cost of providing pensions and other post-retirement benets is assessed annually using the projected unit credit method.
The date of the most recent actuarial review was 31 December 2007.
The material financial assumptions used for estimating the benefit obligations of the various plans are set out below.
The assumptions used to evaluate accrued pension and other post-retirement benets at 31 December in any year are used to determine pension and other post-retirement expense for the following year, that is, the assumptions at 31 December 2007 are used to determine the pension liabilities at that date and the pension cost for 2008.
In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the demographic and mortality assumptions.
Mortality assumptions reect best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions, and have been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted where appropriate to reect the experience of the group and an extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
The primary objective of the trusts is to accumulate pools of assets sufficient to meet the obligation of the various plans.
The assets of the trusts are invested in a manner consistent with duciary obligations and principles that reect current practicesin portfolio management.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:08 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1137233356 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 153 38 Pensions and other post-retirement benets continued A significant proportion of the assets are held in equities, owing to a higher expected level of return over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
In order to provide reasonable assurance that no single security or type of security has an unwarranted impact on the total portfolio, the investment portfolios are highly diversied.
The groups main pension funds do not directly invest in either securities or property real estate of the company or of any subsidiary.
Return on asset assumptions reect the groups expectations built up by asset class and by plan.
The groups expectation is derived from a combination of historical returns over the long term and the forecasts of market professionals.
The expected long-term rates of return and market values of the various categories of asset held by the dened benefit plans at 31 December are set out below.
The market values shown include the effects of derivative financial instruments.
b Included within production and manufacturing expenses and distribution and administration expenses.
c The charge for special termination benefits represents the increased liability arising as a result of early retirements occurring as part of a restructuring programme in the UK.
d The benefit payments amount shown above comprises $2,398 million benefits plus $57 million of fund expenses incurred in the administration of the benefit.
e The actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the expected return on plan assets and the actuarial gain on plan assets as disclosed above.
At 31 December 2007 reimbursement balances due from or to other companies in respect of pensions amounted to $496 million reimbursement assets 2006 $479 million and $72 million reimbursement liabilities 2006 $71 million.
These balances are not included as part of the pension liability, but are reected elsewhere in the group balance sheet.
c The charge for special termination benefits represents the increased liability arising as a result of early retirements occurring as part of a restructuring programme in the UK and Europe.
d The benefit payments amount shown above comprises $2,266 million benefits plus $52 million of fund expenses incurred in the administration of the benefit.
