14 R efining and Marketing During 2007, we focused on restoring operations at the Texas City and Whiting re neries and on investments in integrity IAIN CONN CHIEF EXECUTIVE, REFINING AND MARKETING management throughout the re ning portfolio.
RESULTS $ million 07 2,617 06 5,283 Replacement cost profit before interest results compared with 2006.
However, for and tax was $2,617 million, compared the full year, the impact of the outages and with $5,283 million in 2006.
The result recommissioning costs at the Texas City reflected net disposal gains of and Whiting refineries, cost inflation and $1,151 million 2006 $884 million and an lower results from supply optimization impairment charge of $1,186 million 2006 more than offset increased refining and $155 million.
In 2007, we continued to marketing margins.
Refinery throughputs focus on restoring operations at the Texas were 2,127 thousand barrels per day City refinery and on investments in integrity mb d, 71mb d lower than 2006.
This management throughout the refining reflected the disposal of the Coryton portfolio.
We also focused on the repair and refinery in the UK and reduced throughputs recommissioning of the Whiting refinery at Whiting, which more than offset the following operational issues in March 2007. benefits of the ongoing recommissioning In many parts of the refining portfolio and of the Texas City refinery and the the other market-facing businesses, we acquisition of the remaining interests in the delivered high reliability and improved Rotterdam refinery in the Netherlands.
BP ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 15 Texas City getting back to business Underpinned by investments in process safety, safety culture and the environment, the renewal of our Texas City refinery continued in 2007.
Eighteen million workerhours were dedicated to the site, resulting in the successful recommissioning of seven process units, increasing gasoline yield and providing the foundation for an expected return to operations of more than 400,000 barrels per day in 2008.
In safety efforts, we eliminated blow-down stacks, commissioned new relief systems and invested more than 287,000 hours in training.
A wet-gas scrubber was installed to reduce emissions and comprehensive environmental assessments were progressed to ensure compliance.
And, to ensure that our people have capabilities that match our greatly renewed facilities, we opened a new 62,000-square-foot employee services building with training, medical and security facilities.
16 REFINING AND MARKETING Refining and Marketing is BPs product and service-led arm, focused on fuels, lubricants and chemicals products.
Our aims are to excel in the markets we choose to be in and to be in those markets that allow us to serve the major energy requirements of the world.
By serving our customers and promoting BP and its brands, we expect to be rewarded with sustainable competitive returns and enduring growth.
Our products represent quality, based on a foundation of excellence in safe and reliable manufacturing operations.
STEADY PERFORMANCE IN MARKETING BUSINESSES $ billion Our marketing businesses improved their performance again in 2007, reflected in a continued increase in marketing and supply revenues.
07 208 06 194 05 176 A high-performance partnership In 2007, BP received one of the Weaving new business in China Volkswagen Groups five global awards for entrepreneurial performance.
The award recognizes The worlds largest PTA puri ed terephthalic acid single-train BPs commitment to reliable supply production unit BPs Zhuhai 2 unit in southern China is now and innovation, as well as our onstream.
China is the worlds largest textile producer and position as one of Volkswagens fastest-growing market for PTA, a key raw material in polyester top 100 suppliers.
Zhuhai 2 uses BPs latest proprietary technology and is expected to have a signi cantly lower energy consumption and environmental footprint than any other PTA unit in the world.
BP ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 17 A little better means a lot US customers and independent fuel marketers are increasingly choosing BP since our Helios Power advertising campaign started.
The campaign renews BPs commitment to make things cleaner, friendlier and a little better at service stations, where filling your vehicle is often seen as an unpleasant chore.
BP brand awareness in the US increased by 11% from March to June 2007 following the campaigns launch, while customer preference for BP increased by 3%.
Marketing presence Refining sites Petrochemicals manufacturing sites OUR PRESENCE Refining and Marketing has manufacturing assets in selected locations and markets its products around those assets and in other advantaged areas.
We market our products in more than 100 countries.
BPs re ning availability grew steadily during 2007, re ecting our work to bring production reliably back online and to restore revenues.
REFINING AVAILABILITY 2007 % REPLA CING EQUIPMENT, Q4 84 G AINING ADVANTAGE Q3 83 Q2 83 The BP-operated Gelsenkirchen refinery joint venture in Germany has turned regulatory compliance to its advantage.
When new European environmental legislation called for Q1 82 older furnaces to be upgraded, we invested $200 million to replace 17 old furnaces with five new ones.
Ethylene capacity has since increased by 10%, while fuel usage and CO emissions are expected to decrease by 13% and atmospheric dust by 97%.
