Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:12 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1336260327 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 165 43 Remuneration of directors and senior management continued Ofce facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of ofce and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 63-73.
Short-term employee benets In addition to fees paid to the non-executive chairman and non-executive directors, these amounts comprise, for executive directors and senior managers, salary and benets earned during the year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
This includes an ex gratia superannuation payment of $3 million 2006 and 2005 nil and compensation for loss of ofce of $1 million 2006 $5 million, 2005 nil.
Post-retirement benets The amounts represent the estimated cost to the group of providing dened benefit pensions and other post-retirement benets to senior management in respect of the current year of service measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benets.
Share-based payments This is the cost to the group of senior managements participation in share-based payment plans, as measured by the fair value of options and shares granted accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The main plans in which senior management have participated are the EDIP, MTPP and LTPP.
For details of these plans refer to Note 41.
44 Contingent liabilities There were contingent liabilities at 31 December 2007 in respect of guarantees and indemnities entered into as part of the ordinary course of the groups business.
No material losses are likely to arise from such contingent liabilities.
Further information is included in Note 28.
Approximately 200 lawsuits were led in State and Federal Courts in Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 47% interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3% to Phillips in Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briey indirectly owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Atlantic Richeld Company Atlantic Richeld.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may le a claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages which it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
It is not possible to estimate any financial effect.
Since 1987, Atlantic Richeld, a current subsidiary of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed as against Atlantic Richeld.
Atlantic Richeld is named in these lawsuits as alleged successor to International Smelting & Rening, which, along with a predecessor company, manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits depending on plaintiff seek various remedies, including: compensation to lead-poisoned children: cost to nd and remove lead paint from buildings: medical monitoring and screening programmes: public warning and education on lead hazards: reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for lead-poisoned citizens: and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richeld has been settled nor has Atlantic Richeld been subject to a final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richeld believes that it has valid defences and it intends to defend such actions vigorously and thus the incurrence of a liability by Atlantic Richeld is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity will not be material.
In addition, various group companies are parties to legal actions and claims that arise in the ordinary course of the groups business.
While the outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be readily foreseen, BP believes that they will be resolved without material effect on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
The group les income tax returns in many jurisdictions throughout the world.
Various tax authorities are currently examining the groups income tax returns.
Tax returns contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable taxlaws and regulations and the resolution of tax positions through negotiations with relevant tax authorities, or through litigation, can take several years to complete.
While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome in some cases, the group does not anticipate that there will be any material impact on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
