10 Exploration and P roduction First oil achieved offshore Angola BPs first operated asset in Angola one of our most important deepwater basins achieved first oil in October 2007.
The Greater Plutonio development consists of five oil and gas fields discovered between 1999 and 2001 in water depths up to 1,450 metres.
The start-up of this complex of fields has significantly advanced our development of innovative deepwater technology, supporting our future ability to access new resources worldwide.
Greater Plutonio is expected ultimately to encompass 43 wells, linked to a floating production, storage and offloading vessel by a single-riser tower system that is the longest of its kind in the world.
BP ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 11 ANDY INGLIS CHIEF EXECUTIVE, EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION 2007 was our 14th consecutive year of delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
RESULTS $ million 07 26,927 06 29,647 The segments replacement cost profit embedded derivatives of $47 million before interest and tax of $26,927 million 2006 $515 million.
Capital expenditure represented a decrease of 9% compared was $13.7 billion in 2007 and is expected with 2006.
This result benefited from to be around $15 billion in 2008.
The 2008 higher liquids realizations and the amount excludes the impact of our joint favourable effect of lagged tax reference venture to access Canadian oil sands.
prices in TNK-BP but was impacted by Reported production was 3,818mboe d lower gas realizations, lower reported in 2007.
After adjusting for the impact volumes, higher production taxes in Alaska of acquisitions, disposals and the impact and higher costs reflecting the impacts of of lower entitlements in our  inflation, increased integrity sharing agreements PSAs, production spend and higher depreciation charges.
was flat compared with the previous Additionally, the result was lower due year.
During 2007, we extended our track to the absence of disposal gains in 2006 record in achieving reported reserves in equity-accounted entities.
The result replacement of more than 100%, excluding included lower net gains on sales of acquisitions and disposals, in spite of assets of around $0.9 billion 2006 around significant PSA effects associated with $2 billion and lower fair value gains on high oil prices.
12 EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Our strategy is to build production by: Focusing on nding the largest elds in the worlds most proli c hydrocarbon basins.
Building leadership positions in these areas.
Managing the decline of existing producing assets and divesting assets when they no longer compete in our portfolio.
BP employs a focused exploration strategy in areas with the potential for large oil and natural gas fields as new profit centres.
Within our portfolio of assets, we continue to develop profit centres in which we have a distinctive position: Asia Pacific gas, Azerbaijan, Algeria, Angola, Trinidad, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Russia.
We also manage the decline of our established profit centres in Alaska, Egypt, Latin America, the Middle East, North America gas and the North Sea, by applying technology to enhance recovery from our producing fields.
TECHNOLOGY FRONTIER IN THE DEPTHS OF THE GULF The Atlantis platform in the More gas deepwater Gulf of Mexico completed commissioning in 2007.
At technologys from coalbeds frontier, Atlantis employs the deepest moored platform of its kind in the world and a separate semi-submersible BP aims to recover an extra 1.9 trillion cubic feet of natural drilling and construction rig.
The gas from its coalbed methane asset in the San Juan basin, US.
versatile modular design with A planned $2.4 billion multi-year investment began in 2007 to potential to add wells to increase recovery owes its success to diverse build up skills and technologies to capture the basins potential global technical talent and solutions.
including a factory approach to drilling more than 700 new in ll wells and tie-ins while minimizing environmental impacts.
BP ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 13 BP had the third-lowest lost-time incident frequency Deepening our talent in the most recent review of through local training employee and contractor safety performance of the global Since 2000, BP has been training local exploration and production industry, a Angolans to deliver and operate our covering 39 companies.
four operated deepwater developments offshore Angola.
We expect that, eventually, we will need a workforce a International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP there of 1,200 highly trained people.
OUR REACH AND SCALE BPs Exploration and Production segment spans 29 countries including new access in Libya, Oman and Canada and employs almost 20,000 people.
In 2007, it invested around $14 billion to generate production for the future.
Local Trinidad & Tobago workers contributed % 85 of fabrication hours and Exceptional safety % performance in Colombia 65 of project management hours to A systematic approach to health, safety and the environment in BPs Colombian the construction of BPs Mango operations has led to exceptional performance, earning top recognition both within and Cashima offshore production BP and also among 17,000 Colombian companies.
The comprehensive and platforms, creating employment integrated system, focused on culture and employee behaviour, helped BP to and saving time and money.
achieve 26 million worker-hours in the country without a day lost from injury.
