US employees are granted American depositary shares ADSs or options over the companys ADSs one ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
The share-based payment plans that existed during the year are detailed below.
All plans are ongoing unless otherwise stated.
Plans for executive directors Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element 2005 onwards An equity-settled incentive share plan for executive directors driven by one performance measure over a three-year performance period.
The award of shares is determined by comparing BPs total shareholder return TSR against the other oil majors.
In addition, for the group chief executive, 27% of the grant is based on long-term leadership LTL measures.
After the performance period, the shares that vest net of tax are then subject to a threeyear retention period.
The directors remuneration report on pages 63-73 includes full details of this plan.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element pre-2005 An equity-settled incentive share plan for executive directors driven by three performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The primary measure is BPs shareholder return against the market SHRAM versus that of the companies within the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
This accounts for nearly two-thirds of the potential total award, with the remainder being assessed on BPs relative return on average capital employed ROACE and earnings per share EPS growth compared with the other oil majors.
After the performance period, the shares that vest net of tax are then subject to a three-year retention period.
For 2005 and subsequent years, the share element of EDIP was amended as described above.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share option element pre-2005 An equity-settled share option plan for executive directors that permits options to be granted at an exercise price no lower than the market price of a share on the date that the option is granted.
Options vest over three years one-third each after one, two and three years respectively and must be exercised within seven years of the date of grant.
From 2005 onwards the remuneration committees policy is not to make further grants of share options to executive directors.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:22 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1893580803 198 11 Share-based payments continued Plans for senior employees Medium Term Performance Plan MTPP 2005 onwards An equity-settled incentive share plan for senior employees driven by two performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The award of shares is determined by comparing BPs TSR against the other oil majors and, additionally, by comparing free cash ow FCF against a threshold established for the period.
For a small group of particularly senior employees, only the TSR measure is applicable in determining the award.
The number of shares awarded is increased to take account of the net dividends that would have been received during the performance period, assuming that such dividends had been reinvested.
With regard to leaver provisions, the general rule is that leaving employment during the performance period will preclude an award of shares.
However, special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason and employment ceases after completion of the first year of the performance period.
The current policy of the company, which is reected in the terms of the MTPP, is that senior employees subject to the plan should meet a minimum shareholding requirement.
Long Term Performance Plan LTPP pre-2005 An equity-settled incentive share plan for senior employees driven by three performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The primary measure is BPs SHRAM versus that of the companies within the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
This accounts for nearly two-thirds of the potential total award, with the remainder being assessed on BPs relative ROACE and EPS growth compared with the other oil majors.
Shares are awarded at the end of the performance period and are then subject to a three-year retention period.
With regard to leaver provisions, the general rule is that leaving during the performance period will preclude an award of shares.
This plan was replaced by the MTPP for 2005 onwards.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB An equity-settled restricted share plan for senior employees.
The award value is equal to 50% of the annual cash bonus awarded for the preceding performance year the performance period.
The shares are restricted for a period of three years the restriction period.
Shares accrue dividends during the restriction period and these are reinvested.
With regard to leaver provisions, if a participant ceases to be employed by BP prior to the end of the performance period, the general rule is that this will preclude an award of shares.
However, special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason.
Similarly, if a participant ceases to be employed by BP prior to the end of the restriction period, the general rule is that the restricted shares will be forfeited.
Special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason.
Performance Share Plan PSP An equity-settled restricted share plan for senior professionals and team leaders.
The award takes into account the recipients performance in the prior calendar year the performance period.
Shares, provided initially as share units, are restricted for a period of three years the restriction period.
Share units accrue notional dividends during the restriction period and these are reinvested.
At the end of the restriction period additional units may be awarded based on BPs TSR performance against the other oil majors.
At award, share units are converted into shares.
With regard to leaver provisions, the general rule is that leaving during the performance period will preclude an award of share units.
If a participant ceases to be employed by BP prior to the end of the restriction period, the general rule is that share units will lapse.
Restricted Share Plan RSP An equity-settled restricted share plan used predominantly for senior employees in special circumstances such as recruitment and retention.
There are no performance conditions but the shares are subject to a three-year restriction period.
During the restriction period, shares accrue dividends, which are reinvested.
With regard to leaver provisions, the general rule is that ceasing employment during the restriction period will result in the forfeit of shares.
BP Share Option Plan BPSOP An equity-settled share option plan that applies to certain categories of employees.
Participants are granted share options with an exercise price no lower than market price of a share immediately preceding the date of grant.
There are no performance conditions and the options are exercisable between the third and 10th anniversaries of the grant date.
The general rule is that the options will lapse if the participant leaves employment before 1 the end of the third calendar year from the date of grant and that vested options are exercisable within 3 2 years from the date of leaving.
However, special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason and employment ceases after the end of the calendar year of the date of grant.
From 2007, share options no longer form a regular element of our incentive plans.
Savings and matching plans BP ShareSave Plan A savings-related share option plan, under which employees save on a monthly basis, over a threeor five-year period, towards the purchase of shares at a xed price determined when the option is granted.
This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price at the time of grant.
The option must be exercised within six months of maturity of the savings contract: otherwise it lapses.
The plan is run in the UK and options are granted annually, usually in June.
Participants leaving for a qualifying reason will have six months in which to use their savings to exercise their options on a pro-rated basis.
BP ShareMatch Plans Matching share plans, under which BP matches employees own contributions of shares up to a predetermined limit.
The plans are run in the UK and in over 70 other countries.
The UK plan is run on a monthly basis with shares being held in trust for five years before they can be released free of any income tax and national insurance liability.
In other countries, the plan is run on an annual basis with shares being held in trust for three years.
The plan is operated on a cash basis in those countries where there are regulatory restrictions preventing the holding of BP shares.
When the employee leaves BP, all shares must be removed from trust and units under the plan operated on a cash basis must be encashed.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:22 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1478942577 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 199 11 Share-based payments continued Local Plans In some countries, BP provides local scheme benets, the rules and qualications for which vary according to local circumstances.
The above share plans are indicated as being equity-settled.
However in certain countries it is not possible to award shares to employees owing to local legislation.
In these instances the award will be settled in cash, calculated as the cash equivalent of the value to the employee of an equity-settled plan.
Cash plans Cash settled share-based payments Stock Appreciation Rights SARs These are cash-settled share-based payments available to certain employees that require the group to pay the intrinsic value of the cash option SAR restricted shares to the employee at the date of exercise maturity.
The cash options SARs have the same rules as the BPSOP plan and the cash restricted share plans MTPP, DAB, PSP, RSP have the same rules as their equity-settled counterparts.
Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs ESOPs have been established to acquire BP shares to satisfy any awards made to participants under EDIP, MTPP, LTPP, DAB and the BP ShareMatch Plans.
The ESOPs have waived their rights to dividends on shares held for future awards and are funded by the group.
Until such time as the companys own shares held by the ESOP trusts vest unconditionally in employees, the amount paid for those shares is deducted in arriving at shareholders equity.
See Note 8, Capital and reserves.
Assets and liabilities of the ESOPs are recognized as assets and liabilities of the group.
At 31 December 2007, the ESOPs held 6,448,838 shares 2006 12,795,887 shares and 2005 14,560,003 shares for potential future awards, which had a market value of $79 million 2006 $142 million and 2005 $156 million.
For the options outstanding at 31 December 2007, the exercise price ranges and weighted average remaining contractual lives are shown below.
Management is responsible for all inputs and assumptions in relation to that model, including the determination of expected volatility.
In accordance with the rules of the plans the model simulates BPs TSR and compares it against our principal strategic competitors over the three-year period of the plans.
The model takes into account the historic dividends, share price volatilities and covariances of BP and each comparator company to produce a predicted distribution of relative share performance.
This is applied to the reward criteria to give an expected value of the TSR element.
