Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:50:08 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -863681003 150 35 Finance debt continued Fair values The estimated fair value of finance debt is shown in the table below together with the carrying amount as reected in the balance sheet.
Long-term borrowings in the table below include the portion of debt that matures in the year from 31 December 2007, whereas in the balance sheet the amount would be reported as current liabilities.
The carrying amount of the groups short-term borrowings, comprising mainly commercial paper, bank loans, overdrafts and US Industrial Revenue Municipal Bonds, approximates their fair value.
The fair value of the groups long-term borrowings and finance lease obligations is estimated using quoted prices or, where these are not available, discounted cash ow analyses based on the groups current incremental borrowing rates for similar types and maturities of borrowing.
The groups objective for managing capital is to deliver competitive, secure and sustainable returns to maximize long-term shareholder value.
BP is not subject to any externally-imposed capital requirements.
The groups approach to managing capital is set out in its financial framework.
The group aims to maintain capital discipline in relation to investing activities while progressively growing the dividend per share.
A managed share buyback programme is used to return to shareholders all sustainable free cash ow in excess of the groups investment and dividend needs.
From 2008, the group intends to rebalance returns to shareholders by increasing the dividend component.
As a result, the level of free cash ow allocated to share buybacks is likely to be lower: however, we will continue to use share buybacks as a mechanism to return excess cash to shareholders when appropriate.
The group monitors capital on the basis of the net debt ratio, that is, the ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity.
Net debt is calculated as gross finance debt, as shown in the balance sheet, less cash and cash equivalents.
All components of equity are included in the denominator of the calculation.
We believe that a net debt ratio in the range 20-30% provides an efficient capital structure and an appropriate level of financial exibility.
