Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:57 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 2102010583 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 113 5 Segmental analysis The groups primary format for segment reporting is business segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.
The risks and returns of the groups operations are primarily determined by the nature of the different activities that the group engages in, rather than the geographical location of these operations.
This is reected by the groups organizational structure and internal financial reporting systems.
In 2007, BP had three reportable operating segments: Exploration and Production: Rening and Marketing: and Gas, Power and Renewables.
Exploration and Productions activities include oil and natural gas exploration, development and production, together with related pipeline, transportation and processing activities.
The activities of Rening and Marketing include the supply and trading, rening, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude oil, petroleum and chemicals products.
Gas, Power and Renewables activities included marketing and trading of gas and power, marketing of liqueed natural gas LNG, natural gas liquids NGLs and low-carbon power generation through our Alternative Energy business.
The group is managed on an integrated basis.
Other businesses and corporate comprises Treasury which in the segmental analysis includes all of the groups cash, cash equivalents and associated interest income, the groups aluminium asset and corporate activities worldwide.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the groups accounting policies described in Note 1.
Sales between segments are made at prices that approximate market prices, taking into account the volumes involved.
Segment revenues and segment results include transactions between business segments.
These transactions and any unrealized profits and losses are eliminated on consolidation, unless unrealized losses provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The groups geographical segments are based on the location of the groups assets.
The UK and the US are significant countries of activity for the group: the other geographical segments are groupings of countries determined by geographical location.
Sales to external customers are based on the location of the seller, which in most circumstances is not materially different from the location of the customer.
Crude oil and LNG are commodities for which there is an international market and buyers and sellers can be widely separated geographically.
The UK segment includes the UK-based international activities of Rening and Marketing.
This adjustment has two offsetting elements: the net margin on crude refined by Innovene as substantially all crude for its refineries was supplied by BP and most of the refined products manufactured were taken by BP: and the margin on sales of feedstock from BPs US refineries to Innovenes manufacturing plants.
The profits attributable to individual segments are not affected by this adjustment.
This representation does not indicate the profits earned by continuing or Innovene operations, as if they were standalone entities, for past periods or likely to be earned in future periods.
