US employees are granted American depositary shares ADSs or options over the companys ADSs one ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
The share-based payment plans that existed during the year are detailed below.
All plans are ongoing unless otherwise stated.
Plans for executive directors Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element 2005 onwards An equity-settled incentive share plan for executive directors driven by one performance measure over a three-year performance period.
The award of shares is determined by comparing BPs total shareholder return TSR against the other oil majors.
In addition, for the group chief executive, 27% of the grant is based on long-term leadership LTL measures.
After the performance period, the shares that vest net of tax are then subject to a threeyear retention period.
The directors remuneration report on pages 63-73 includes full details of this plan.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element pre-2005 An equity-settled incentive share plan for executive directors driven by three performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The primary measure is BPs shareholder return against the market SHRAM versus that of the companies within the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
This accounts for nearly two-thirds of the potential total award, with the remainder being assessed on BPs relative return on average capital employed ROACE and earnings per share EPS growth compared with the other oil majors.
After the performance period, the shares that vest net of tax are then subject to a three-year retention period.
For 2005 and subsequent years, the share element of EDIP was amended as described above.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share option element pre-2005 An equity-settled share option plan for executive directors that permits options to be granted at an exercise price no lower than the market price of a share on the date that the option is granted.
Options vest over three years one-third each after one, two and three years respectively and must be exercised within seven years of the date of grant.
From 2005 onwards the remuneration committees policy is not to make further grants of share options to executive directors.
