Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 452155879 100 Notes on financial statements 1 significant accounting policies Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorized for issue by the board of directors on 22 February 2008 and the balance sheet was signed on the boards behalf by P D Sutherland and Dr A B Hayward.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
The significant accounting policies of the group are set out below.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2007, or issued and early adopted.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements for the current year, the group has adopted the following new IFRS, amendment to IFRS and IFRIC interpretations: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
Further information regarding the impact of adoption is given below.
The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all years presented with the exception of those relating to financial instruments under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 which have been applied with effect from 1 January 2005.
The standards in force at the time of BPs first time adoption of IFRS in 2005 were applied retrospectively to 1 January 2003, BPs date of transition to IFRS.
However, BP elected to take advantage of the exemption allowing comparative information on financial instruments to be prepared in accordance with the groups previous accounting policies under UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The effect on shareholders equity of this change on 1 January 2005 is shown in the group statement of recognized income and expense and related mainly to all derivative financial instruments being brought on to the group balance sheet at fair value and availablefor-sale investments being measured at fair value rather than at cost.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except where otherwise indicated.
For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates made by management in applying the groups accounting policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 57 to 58, which forms part of these financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group.
Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in economic activitythat the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus post-acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities are also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The group income statement reects the groups share of the results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
The group statement of recognized income and expense reects the groups share of any income and expense recognized by the jointly controlled entity outside profit and loss.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 891737969 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 101 1 significant accounting policies continued The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the date from which it no longer has joint control over, or significant inuence in the joint venture, or when the interest becomes held for sale.
Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have a direct ownership interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
The income, expenses, assets and liabilities of these jointly controlled assets are included in the consolidated financial statements in proportion to the groups interest.
Interests in associates An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant inuence through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but that is not a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
Foreign currency translation Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates and is normally the currency in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash.
In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost and denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rates of exchange as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, including related goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash ows of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates of exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into US dollars are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in the statement of recognized income and expense.
Exchange gains and losses arising on long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used to finance the groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to equity.
On disposal of a non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate, the deferred cumulative amount recognized in equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation is recognized in the income statement.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the cash paid and the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recognized as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where the group does not acquire 100% ownership of the acquired company, the interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognized.
Subsequently, any losses applicabletothe minority shareholders in excess of the minority interest on the group balance sheet are allocated against the interests of the parent.
At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
For this purpose, cash-generating units are set at one level below a business segment.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized.
Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 is stated at the previous carrying amount under UK generally accepted accounting practice.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled entities and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over the groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets.
Such goodwill is recorded within investments in jointly controlled entities and associates, andany impairment of the goodwill is included within the earnings from jointly controlled entities and associates.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classied as held for sale are not depreciated.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at the amount initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets include expenditure on the exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer software, patents, licences and trademarks.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1493843855 102 1 significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets with a nite life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and trademarks, expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal agreement and economic useful life, which can range from three to 15 years.
Computer software costs have a useful life of three to five years.
The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditure Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditure is accounted for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
Licence and property acquisition costs Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized within intangible xed assets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of exploration.
Each property is reviewed on an annual basis to confirm that drilling activity is planned and it is not impaired.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written off.
Upon determination of economically recoverable reserves proved reserves or commercial reserves, amortization ceases and the remaining costs are aggregated with exploration expenditure and held on a eld-by-eld basis as proved properties awaiting approval within other intangible assets.
When development is approved internally, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Exploration expenditure Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income as incurred.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
If hydrocarbons are not found, the exploration expenditure is written off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are found and, subject to further appraisal activity, which may include the drilling of further wells exploration or exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, are likely to be capable of commercial development, the costs continue to be carried as an asset.
All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial and management review at least once a year to confirm the continued intent to develop or otherwise extract value from the discovery.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are written off.
When proved reserves of oil and natural gas are determined and development is sanctioned, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells, including unsuccessful development or delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated from the commencement of production as described below in the accounting policy for Property, plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if any, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Exchanges of assets are measured at fair value unless the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.
The cost of the acquired asset is measured at the fair value of the asset given up, unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
Where fair value is not used, the cost of the acquired asset is measured at the carrying amount of the amount given up.
The gain or loss on derecognition of the asset given up is recognized in profit or loss.
Expenditure on major maintenance rets or repairs comprises the cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benets associated with the item will ow to the group, the expenditure is capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized.
Inspection costs associated with major maintenance programmes are capitalized and amortized over the period to the next inspection.
Overhaul costs for major maintenance programmes are expensed as incurred.
All other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are depreciated using a unit-of-production method.
The cost of producing wells is amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, eld development and future decommissioning costs are amortized over total proved reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of eld development costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, together with approved future development expenditure required to develop reserves.
Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the period the item is derecognized.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identiable cash ows that are largely independent of the cash ows of other groups of assets.
An asset groups recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset group is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are adjusted for the risks specic to the asset group and are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Financial assets Financial assets are classied as loans and receivables: available-for-sale financial assets: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: oras derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classication, as follows: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are not classied as loans and receivables.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses recognized as a separate component of equity until the investmentis derecognized or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Where fair value cannot be reliably estimated, assets are carried at cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classied as held for trading and are included in this category.
These assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, the treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation are described below in the accounting policy for Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortization and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -483019500 104 1 significant accounting policies continued If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Financial assets are derecognized on sale or settlement.
Inventories Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the first-in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less costs to sell and any changes in net realizable value are recognized in the income statement.
Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in aneffective hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines the classication of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The measurement ofnancial liabilities depends on their classication, as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classied as held for trading and are included in this category.
These liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively in interest and other revenues and finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables and finance debt.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly against income.
Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, are accounted for as financial instruments.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in the income statement.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as: Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability.
Cash ow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1502084661 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 105 1 significant accounting policies continued At the inception of a hedge relationship the group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship for which the group wishes to claim hedge accounting, together with the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identication of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash ows attributable to the hedged item.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash ows.
Hedges meeting the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Fair value hedges The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or loss.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognized in profit or loss.
The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging xed interest rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement within finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the underlying borrowings.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the group revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used is amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Cash ow hedges For cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognized in the income statement within finance costs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, such as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognized in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognized in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Contracts are assessed for embedded derivatives when the group becomes a party to them, including at the date of a business combination.
Embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to profit or loss.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where appropriate, the future cash ow estimates are adjusted to reect risks specic to the liability.
Where the group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as other finance expense.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognized, but are disclosed where an inow of economic benets is probable.
Environmental expenditures and liabilities Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to current or future earnings are expensed.
Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
Generally, the timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Decommissioning Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable estimate of that liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for a new facility, such as oil and natural gas production or transportation facilities, this will be on construction or installation.
An obligation for decommissioning may also crystallize during the period of operation of a facility through a change in legislation or through a decision to terminate operations.
The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1136049603 106 1 significant accounting policies continued A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the asset.
Other than the unwinding discount on the provision, any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reected as an adjustment to the provision and the corresponding item of property, plant and equipment.
Employee benets Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award vests.
The accounting policy for pensions and other post-retirement benets is described below.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognized in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modied or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognized over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modication, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modied award, both as measured on the date of the modication.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value using an appropriate option valuation model.
Fair value is established initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognized representing the product of the fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the balance sheet date.
From the end of the vesting period until settlement, the liability represents the full fair value of the award as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognized in profit or loss for the period.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets The cost of providing benets under the dened benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benets to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of dened benefit obligation.
Past service costs are recognized immediately when the company becomes committed to a change in pension plan design.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benets already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognized in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the dened benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benets paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognized in the income statement as other finance income or expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full in the group statement of recognized income and expense in the period in which they occur.
The dened benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the dened benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
Contributions to dened contribution schemes are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Corporate taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Interest and penalties relating to tax are also included in income tax expense.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Any liability relating to unrecognized tax benets is included in current tax payable on the group balance sheet.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:56 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 388421600 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 107 1 significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences: Except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is not tax deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilized: Except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized in equity and not in the income statement.
Customs duties and sales taxes Revenues, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount of customs duties or sales tax except: Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable.
Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs duty or sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Own equity instruments The groups holding in its own equity instruments, including ordinary shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are classied as treasury shares, and shown as deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to the profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Revenue Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer and it can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Revenues associated with the sale of oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids, liqueed natural gas, petroleum and chemicals products and all other items are recognized when the title passes to the customer.
Physical exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases made with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a physical exchange.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf of a third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated fee income is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
Additionally, where forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power have been determined to be for trading purposes, the associated sales and purchases are reported net within sales and other operating revenues whether or not physical delivery has occurred.
Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas properties in which the group has an interest with joint venture partners are recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those properties the entitlement method.
Differences between the production sold and the groups share of production are not significant.
Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the effective interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Research Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Finance costs Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Filename: U54368 doc8.3d Time: 14:49:57 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -358599465 108 1 significant accounting policies continued Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards Adopted for 2007 The following new IFRS, amendment to IFRS and IFRIC interpretations have been adopted by the group with effect from 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was issued in August 2005 and replaced the disclosure requirements previously contained in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure.
The group has disclosed in its annual report additional information about its financial instruments, their signicance and the nature and extent of risks to which they give rise.
More specically, the group has also made specified disclosures about market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
There was no effect on the groups reported income or net assets as a result of adoption of this new standard.
Also in August 2005, the IASB issued Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures, which requires disclosures of an entitys objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, quantitative data about what the entity regards as capital, whether the entity has complied with any capital requirements, and the consequences of any non-compliance.
The group has included the required disclosures in its annual report.
There was no effect on the groups reported income or net assets as a result of adoption of this amendment.
In addition, in 2007 BP has adopted IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment and early adopted IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
There were no changes in the groups accounting policies and no restatement of financial information consequent upon adoption of these interpretations.
Not yet adopted The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective for future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted by the group.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in October 2006 and defines operating segments as components of an entity about which separate financial information is available and is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The new standard sets out the required disclosures for operating segments and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
BP has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact on its disclosures of adopting IFRS 8.
There will be no effect on the groups reported income or net assets.
IFRS 8 has been adopted by the EU.
In September 2007, the IASB issued Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements A Revised Presentation, which requires separate presentation of owner and non-owner changes in equity by introducing the statement of comprehensive income.
The statement of recognized income and expense will no longer be presented.
Whenever there is a restatement or reclassication, an additional balance sheet, as at the beginning of the earliest period presented, will be required to be published.
The revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 1 revised has not yet been adopted by the EU.
An amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs was issued by the IASB in March 2007 and eliminates the option of recognizing borrowing costs immediately as an expense if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The amended standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment has not yet been adopted by the EU.
In January 2008, the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The revised standard still requires the purchase method of accounting to be applied to business combinations but will introduce some changes to existing accounting treatment.
For example, contingent consideration should be measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes recognized in profit or loss.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the minority interest.
All transaction costs will be expensed.
The standard is applicable to business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Assets and liabilities arising from business combinations occurring before the date of adoption by the group will not be restated and thus there will be no effect on the groups reported income or net assets on adoption.
The revised standard has not yet been adopted by the EU.
Also in January 2008, the IASB issued an amended version of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
Such transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains or losses.
When control is lost, any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss recognized in profit or loss.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and are to be applied retrospectively, with certain exceptions.
BP has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adopting this amendment.
An amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment was issued in January 2008, clarifying that only service conditions and performance conditions are vesting conditions, and other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
In addition, it species that all cancellations, whetherby the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and has not yet been adopted by the EU.
In February 2008, the IASB issued Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation.
The amended standards require entities to classify as equity certain financial instruments provided certain criteria are met.
The instruments to be classied as equity are puttable financial instruments and those instruments that impose an obligation on the entity to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and have not yet been adopted by the EU.
BP has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adopting these amendments.
Three IFRIC interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and have not yet been adopted by the EU.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements gives guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of this interpretation will have a material effect on the reported income or net assets of the group.
We plan to adopt this interpretation with effect from 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes addresses the accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits e. g. points or travel miles to customers who buy other goods or services.
We plan to adopt this interpretation with effect from 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements, and their Interaction provides clarification regarding how to determine whether a surplus may be recognized on the balance sheet in relation to a retirement benefit plan.
