a This note contains information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
Midstream activities relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, processing and export terminals and LNG processing facilities and transportation are excluded.
The most significant midstream pipeline interests include the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, the Forties Pipeline System, the Central Area Transmission System pipeline and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline.
Major LNG activities are located in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia.
The groups share of jointly controlled entities and associates acitivies are excluded from the tables and included in the footnotes with the exception of the Abu Dhabi operations, which are included in the results of operations above.
b Includes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible fixed assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
c Includes property taxes, other government take and the fair value gain on embedded derivatives of $47 million.
The UK Region includes a $409 million gain offset by corresponding charges primarily in the US, relating to the group self-insurance programme.
d The Exploration and Production profit before interest and tax is set out below.
Midstream activities of natural gas gathering and distribution and the operation of the main pipelines and tankers are excluded.
The main midstream activities are the Alaskan transportation facilities, the Forties Pipeline system and the Central Area Transmission System.
The groups share of jointly controlled entities and associates activities is excluded from the tables and included in the footnotes with the exception of the Abu Dhabi operations, which are included in the income and expenditure items above.
c Includes the value of royalty oil sold on behalf of others where royalty is payable in cash, property taxes, other government take and the fair value gain on embedded derivatives $515 million.
d Excludes accretion expense attributable to exploration and production activities amounting to $153 million.
Under IFRS, accretion expense is included in other finance expense in the group income statement.
e The Exploration and Production profit before interest and tax is set out below.
c Includes the value of royalty oil sold on behalf of others where royalty is payable in cash, property taxes, other government take, the fair value loss on embedded derivatives $1,688 million and a $265 million charge incurred on the cancellation of an intragroup gas supply contract.
The UK region includes a $530 million charge offset by corresponding gains primarily in the US, relating to the groups self-insurance programme.
d Excludes accretion expense attributable to exploration and production activities amounting to $122 million.
