Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting an ordinary resolution and Resolution 13 as a special of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at 25 resolution: Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 16 May 2008 at 12 noon for the following purposes: 12.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with ORDINARY BUSINESS Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Financial Statements for the year ended 31 relevant securities as defined in that section up to December 2007. an aggregate nominal amount of 725,000 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount 2.
of the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 February 2008 such authority to expire at the 3.
To re-elect Mr Walther as a Director.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing 4.
To re-elect Mr Fraser as a Director.
of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers 5.
To re-elect Mr Simpson as a Director.
or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be 6.
To re-elect Mr Duckworth as a Director.
allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To elect Mr Robinson as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set 8.
To elect Mr van der Klugt as a Director.
out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for the year ended 31 December 2007. for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 12 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not To consider the following resolution, special notice apply to any such allotment, provided that this having been received of the intention to propose the power shall be limited: resolution as an ordinary resolution: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 10.
To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditors with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of of the Company having previously been appointed relevant equity securities where the equity securities by the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by attributable respectively to the interests of all holders reason of the resignation of RSM Robson Rhodes of securities of such class are either proportionate LLP, to hold office until the conclusion of the next as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of general meeting at which financial statements are relevant equity securities held by them or are laid before the Company.
otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the remuneration.
Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical SPECIAL BUSINESS problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, Resolutions 12 and 13 will, if approved, authorise the any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any Directors to allot a limited number of the currently territory or otherwise : and unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company amount of 725,000 approximately 5% of the in issue on 27 February 2008.
The Directors will only aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of the Company as at 27 February 2008 : and of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not shareholders to do so.
less than the net asset value per share To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 12 as next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, Page 54 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Notice of Meeting whichever is the earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase its shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 27 February 2008.
Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 8,710,000: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
By Order of the Board Fidelity Investments International Secretary 14 March 2008 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 55 Notice of Meeting Notes: 6 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled Securities Regulations 2001 the Company has to appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a specified that only those shareholders registered in shareholder of the Company to exercise all or any the Register of Members of the Company at 5.30pm of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
on 14 May 2008 shall be entitled to attend and vote Where more than one proxy is appointed, each at the meeting in respect of the number of shares proxy must be appointed for different shares.
registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of Members after 5.30pm on 14 May 2008 2 A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders.
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any Completion and return of the form of proxy will not person to attend and vote at the meeting.
prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
7 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint agree by attending the meeting that they are 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any and any power of attorney or other authority under communications, including communications relating which it is signed or a copy of any such authority to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with the 8 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the time for Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
5 In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the 2006 Act, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
Page 56 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment You may invest in the Companys shares through the Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity way to put money into Fidelity European Values PLC.
ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your investment, because you will not have to pay income The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 or capital gains tax on your returns.
as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and up to 4,000 in a Mini stocks and shares ISA inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the With effect from 6 April 2008 the distinction between Designation Box on the Share Plan application form and Mini and Maxi ISAs will be removed and the maximum you will know who you have set this money aside for.
investment in a stocks and shares ISA will be 7,200.
Please note that the money is still held in your name.
The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust regular savings plan.
Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share purchases.
However, 5 in 1 ISA Fidelity European Values PLC is one of five if you invest through a Financial Adviser, there may investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can invest be an initial charge of up to 3%.
in the entire range through the Fidelity 5 in 1 ISA, which spreads your money equally across all five trusts.
This Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity offers a simple and convenient way to invest across Europe, European Values PLC that you bought through a broker the UK, Japan and Asia giving you a broadly diversified or share shop you can transfer them into the Fidelity portfolio in a single investment.
You can invest in the 5 in Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows you to 1 ISA from just 100 a month or 1,000 lump sum.
reinvest your dividends and make further investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5%.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Company pays an annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a performance related fee where BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES - applicable, as set out in the annual report.
INFORMATION RIGHTS With effect from 1 October 2007 registered shareholders MOVING MONEY FROM of fully listed companies are able to nominate the PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS underlying beneficial owners of their shares to receive If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment information rights from 1 January 2008.
You should companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and contact your registered shareholder direct to request to invest in Fidelity European Values PLC without losing any receive your information rights.
Please note that beneficial tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be a owners of shares who have been nominated by the great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign registered holder of those shares to receive information it with your current investment goals.
Please note that rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are during the transfer your money will not be invested in the required to direct all communications to the registered stockmarket so you may miss out on any growth during holder of their shares rather than to the Companys this time.
Registrars, Capita Registrars, or to the Company direct.
Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is INVESTING ONLINE 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer You can invest online in Fidelity European Values PLC costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current shares via www.
Fidelity ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any The annual management charge is as described above listed company during normal London Stock Exchange in the Investing in an ISA section.
trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already restrictions.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 57 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC You will be shown a live price and be able to buy or To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the sell immediately.
If an order is placed when the market Capita Registrars website at www.
com is closed, it will be processed as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Should you have any queries in respect of the above Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita membership for shares held direct.
This means that Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p per shares are registered on the CREST system in your own minute plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, name and everything relating to your shares dividends, or by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder Capita Share Dealing Services - You can make use of meetings in your own name.
Personal CREST a low cost share dealing service provided by Capita membership does not apply to ISA holdings which Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further information is must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee available at www.
com, or by telephoning under ISA regulations.
Fidelity ShareNetwork has a very 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network competitive cost structure.
Share purchases or sales are extras.
Using Capita Share Dealing Services you will also executed on line for only 9 per trade.
Stamp duty is be able to deal in the shares of other companies for also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is which Capita acts as registrar, provided you are already a an account administration fee of 5 per month, however shareholder in the relevant company, and that company many different shares you own and whatever their value.
offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
CONTACT INFORMATION Dividend Reinvestment Plan - This is a convenient way to Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, build up your shareholding by using your cash dividends 9am to 6pm, 7 days a week.
to buy more shares in the Company.
If you would prefer Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, to receive shares for your next dividend instead of cash 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
please complete an application form online at www.
com or call Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 664 0381 calls Existing shareholders who have a specific query cost 10p per minute plus network extras from the UK or regarding their holding or need to provide update 44 208 639 3402 from overseas.
information, for example a change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: ShareGift You may donate your shares to a nominated charity free of charge through ShareGift.
Further details Holders of ordinary shares are available at www.
uk or by telephoning Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Values 020 7828 1151.
PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost Share Plan investors 10p per minute plus network extras Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Equiniti Limited, Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com PO Box 4605, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6QY Through the website of our Registrar, Capita Registrars, Telephone: 0871 384 2781 calls to this number shareholders are able to manage their shareholding are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, Other telephony providers costs may vary.
online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars - Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their ISA PEP investors personal shareholding, including share transaction Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given opposite, history, dividend payment history and to obtain an or by writing to: up-to-date shareholding valuation: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Investments, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, - Amendment of Standing Data This allows Kent TN11 9DZ shareholders to change their registered postal address and add, change or delete dividend General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the mandate instructions.
Investment Manager and Secretary, at the Companys registered office: Shareholders can also download from this site forms Fidelity Investments International Investment Trusts such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, mandate forms as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Surrey KT20 6RP Page 58 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2287.
Calls are charged at a premium rate.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
"The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ""ISA"" is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited."
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Equiniti Limited formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
For the purpose of Sections 21 and 25 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the content of this report has been approved by Fidelity Investments International.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
CB33322 NA The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 87% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
SGS-COC-0620 used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
