Directors Report STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual As required by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act report and the financial statements in accordance with 1985 the Directors in office as at the date of this report applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no the Directors to prepare financial statements for each relevant audit information of which the Auditors are financial year.
Under that law they have elected to unaware and each Director has taken all the steps prepare the financial statements in accordance with that ought to have been taken as a Director to make United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The financial themselves aware of any relevant audit information statements are required by law to give a true and fair and to establish that the Auditors are aware of that view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the information.
net return of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: AUDITORS APPOINTMENT During the year ended 31 December 2007 the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Companys Auditors RSM Robson Rhodes LLP merged them consistently: with Grant Thornton, the new entity being Grant Thornton UK LLP.
As a matter of process, RSM Robson make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Rhodes LLP resigned as Auditors of the Company and and prudent: the Board appointed Grant Thornton UK LLP to fill the casual vacancy arising following this resignation.
Special state whether applicable UK accounting standards notice having been received, a resolution to re-appoint have been followed, subject to any material Grant Thornton UK LLP as the Companys Auditors will departures disclosed and explained in the financial be proposed at the Annual General Meeting together statements: and with a resolution regarding the Auditors remuneration.
prepare the financial statements on the going By order of the Board concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Fidelity Investments International 27 February 2008 The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The financial statements may be published on a website.
The Auditors have represented to your Board that their work does not involve any consideration of the maintenance and integrity of any website and accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were approved.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 23
