Notes on the Accounts 1 General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act, 1988.
Approval of the Company under S842 has been received subject to there being no subsequent enquiry in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 and all previous applicable financial years.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP issued in December 2005.
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
There have been no significant changes to the accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2007.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2b below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
Net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend and are allocated via the capital account to the Capital Reserves.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are shown in the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds.
b Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Fixed assets investments As an investment trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Investment purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Investment sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Listed investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
ii Borrowings Interest-bearing debenture stock, loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of issue costs, irrespective of the duration of the instrument.
The fair market value of the long-term debenture stock is stated in note 17 on the accounts.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period.
See v below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
iii Foreign currency Foreign currency assets and liabilities are expressed in sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed assets investments are included within the changes in fair value in the capital account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the capital account except where they relate to revenue items.
Report and Accounts 2007 41 Notes on the Accounts 2.
Significant accounting policies continued iv Income Income from equity shares is brought into the revenue account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the capital account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on nonequity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation FRS16 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies continue to be shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
v Expenses, including finance charges Expenses are charged to the Revenue Account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets investments are included within the cost of the investments or deducted from the disposal proceeds of investments and are thus charged to capital reserve realised via the capital account: 100% of management fees, invoiced to the Company in respect of certain Private Equity investments, are allocated to capital reserve realised, via the capital account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from those investments: 50% of other management fees, including related irrecoverable VAT, and 50% of finance costs both net of applicable tax relief are allocated to capital reserve realised via the capital account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio excluding private equity investments of the Company: and 100% of the performance-related management fees, including related irrecoverable VAT, as is directly attributable to the realised and unrealised returns from investments recognised in the capital account in the period, is allocated to capital reserve realised in the capital account.
Details of the performance-related fee calculation are set out in note 4 on the accounts.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
vi Taxation Deferred tax is provided in accordance with FRS19 on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the revenue account, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital account.
vii Capital Redemption Reserve The nominal value of Ordinary share capital repurchased for cancellation is transferred out of Share Capital and into the Capital Redemption Reserve.
viii Capital Reserves Capital reserve realised The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of fixed asset investments: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve unrealised The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments held at the year end: and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
42 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
