25 Related Party Transactions The following are considered related parties: The Board of Directors the Board and F&C Management Limited F&C.
There are no transactions with the Board other than aggregated remuneration for services as Directors as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 and 30, and as set out in note 6 on the accounts.
There are no outstanding balances with the Board at year end.
Transactions between the Company and F&C are detailed: in Note 4 on management and performance fees: in note 11, where stock lending fees and investments managed and advised by F&C are disclosed: and in note 15, in relation to performance fees owed to F&C at the Balance Sheet date.
The Fund Manager, Jeremy Tigue, who is an employee of F&C, had a beneficial interest in 279,220 ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2007 and 281,204 at 7 March 2008.
26 Financial Risk Management The Company is an Investment Company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and conducts its affairs so as to qualify in the United Kingdom UK as an Investment Trust under the provisions of S842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act, 1988.
In so qualifying, the Company is exempted in the UK from corporation tax on capital gains on its portfolio of investments.
The Companys investment objective is to secure long-term growth in capital and income through a policy of investing primarily in an internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
In pursuing the objective, the Company is exposed to financial risks which could result in a reduction of either or both of the value of the net assets and the profits available for distribution by way of dividend.
These financial risks are principally related to the market currency movements, interest rate changes and security price movements, liquidity and credit.
The Board of Directors, together with the Manager, is responsible for the Companys risk management, as set out in detail in the Business Review.
The Directors policies and processes for managing the financial risks are set out in a, b and c below.
The Accounting policies which govern the reported Balance Sheet carrying values of the underlying financial assets and liabilities, as well as the related income and expenditure, are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The policies are in compliance with UK Accounting Standards and best practice, and include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value, except as noted in d below and in note 17 in respect of Debenture Stocks.
The Company does not make use of hedge accounting rules.
a Market Risks The fair value of equity and other financial securities held in the Companys portfolio fluctuates with changes in market prices.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues, including the market perception of future risks.
The Board sets policies for managing these risks within the Companys objective and meets regularly to review full, timely and relevant information on investment performance and financial results.
The Manager assesses exposure to market risks when making each investment decision and monitors on-going market risk within the portfolio.
The Companys other assets and liabilities may be denominated in currencies other than sterling and may also be exposed to interest rate risks.
The Manager and the Board regularly monitor these risks.
The Company does not normally hold significant cash balances.
Borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies, thereby limiting the Companys exposure to future changes in exchange rates.
Debenture stocks were issued as part of the Companys planned gearing.
All contracts and compliance with them, including the Debenture trust deed, are agreed and monitored by the Board.
Gearing may be short or long-term, in Sterling and foreign currencies, and enables the Company to take a long-term view of the countries and markets in which it is invested without having to be concerned about short-term volatility.
Income earned in foreign currencies is converted to Sterling on receipt.
The Board regularly monitors the effects on net revenue of interest earned on deposits and paid on gearing.
