Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Taper relief and indexation allowances currently The Companys net asset value is released daily, on available in calculating chargeable gains on the working day following the calculation date, to the investments will be abolished with effect from London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of 6 April 2008 in favour of a single rate of charge to Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the CGT of 18%.
investment trust section of the stockmarket page Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position in most leading newspapers, usually under For & should consult their professional advisers.
Col. Investors in New Zealand and Germany can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in Income tax those countries.
The proposed final dividend of 3.15 pence per share is payable on 8 May 2008.
Individual UK resident Performance information shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at Information on the Companys performance is the lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax provided in the interim and final reports which are liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any sent to shareholders in August and April respectively.
shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should More up-to-date performance information, including consult their professional advisers.
the full list of investments in the portfolio as at the most recent quarter end, is available on the Internet Association of Investment Companies AIC at www.
com under Company Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member facts.
com also of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical provides a monthly update on the Companys information service in respect of member companies.
geographic spread and largest holdings, along with The publication also has details of ISA and other comments from the Fund Manager.
For further details, please contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the UK capital gains tax CGT website: www.
An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 9,200 in the tax year ended 5 April 2008 without incurring any tax liability.
64 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
