FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:19 Page 149 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Business unit management is responsible for putting in place the 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks and mitigating risks activities under its control.
Through these mechanisms, risks are identified in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, Overview control procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, actions The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk agreed and implemented.
from its use of financial instruments and to these risks and insurance risk through the issuing of insurance contracts.
This note The Group Asset Liability Committee reports to the Investment presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the Committee.
It comprises the executive directors of the Company, above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for together with senior managers from the Life & Pensions and Asset measuring and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are Management businesses, and supervises the application of agreed included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
risk appetite in respect of asset liability matching for both shareholder and policyholder funds.
It also reviews the investment The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and of, and monitors market, liquidity and credit risk management in oversight of the Groups risk management framework and determines relation to, shareholder funds and makes recommendations to the overall risk management policy for the Group.
The Board has Investment Committee in respect of policy on foreign exchange and established the Group Risk Committee GRC, which is responsible interest rate hedging.
for developing, sponsoring and monitoring the risk management activities and processes of the companies within the Group.
The Audit and Compliance Committee ACC oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk Within the UK Life & Pensions business, FPL&P, where most of management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the financial and insurance risks arise, the boards of the principal the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the operating companies Life & Pensions boards oversee the risk Group.
The ACC is supported in its oversight role by Internal Audit, framework and FPLPs Financial Risk Committee FRC, which which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk includes executive directors and other relevant senior managers, management controls and procedures, the results of which are oversees the management of financial and insurance risks.
Within reported to the ACC.
the international business, FPIL and Lombard have risk committees comprising executive directors and other relevant senior managers a Quantitive risk exposure that oversee their risk management processes for all risks and The Group manages its business financially on European Embedded report into their respective boards.
The Board of F&C, in conjunction Value EEV, economic capital and regulatory bases.
with management, identifies the major risks in the asset management business and reviews and agrees procedures to The Groups quantitative exposure to a range of financial, insurance control these risks, where possible.
and other risks is illustrated in the EEV sensitivity analysis below, where the impacts of reasonably possible changes in risk variables The GRC has authority, delegated by the Board, to approve policies are disclosed.
The basis of preparation and limitations of the EEV for the management of risk and delegates its authority where methodology are provided on page 177 of the EEV supplementary appropriate.
The operational boards of the Groups core businesses information.
are authorised to determine their respective policies for the management of risk, subject to the oversight of the GRC.
The Life Life & Pensions & Pensions boards have delegated their authority to the FRC for The table below shows the sensitivity of the embedded value market, credit, liquidity and insurance risk policy.
All risk management and the contribution from new business to changes in assumptions policies are reviewed regularly by the relevant committee on at least at year end 2007, split by UK and International.
The sensitivities an annual basis, to ensure they remain relevant to the changing shown reflect movements in Life & Pensions EEV and corporate net demands of the business and regulatory environment.
The financial and insurance risk processes are aligned to the For each sensitivity other future experience assumptions remain business planning process, with risk being identified and evaluated unchanged, except where changes in economic conditions directly in relation to the achievement of business objectives.
The assumptions underlying the statutory reserving are run centrally by the Risk function in co-operation with key calculations remain unchanged in all sensitivities.
Risks are recorded by the Risk function, which co-ordinates quarterly reporting to the FRC.
Risks within business Sensitivities shown in a single direction have broadly symmetrical change activities are identified and evaluated by the management of impacts.
the change programme both in relation to the delivery of the programme and in terms of the change programmes effect on the business as a whole.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 149 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 150 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Change in embedded value Change in new business net of tax contribution gross of tax UK Int Total UK Int Total Year ended 31 December 2007 Notes m m m m m m Base EEV VNB 2,309 601 2,910 96 110 206 Market risk 1% increase in equity and property expected returns i n a n a n a n a n a n a 1% increase in risk-free rates, with corresponding change in fixed-interest asset values 180 13 193 6 3 9 1% reduction in risk-free rates, with corresponding change in fixed-interest asset values 174 12 186 5 2 7 10% increase in market values of equity and property assets ii 82 33 115 n a n a n a 10% reduction in market values of equity and property assets ii 95 32 127 n a n a n a 10% reduction in sterling overseas exchange rate iii 16 41 57 n a n a n a Insurance and other risk 5% reduction in annuitant mortality Before reinsurance 40 - 40 2 - 2 After reinsurance 24 - 24 2 - 2 5% increase in annuitant mortality Before reinsurance 38 - 38 2 - 2 After reinsurance 23 - 23 2 - 2 5% reduction in mortality and morbidity excluding annuities Before reinsurance 21 3 24 8 1 9 After reinsurance 43 7 3 - 3 5% increase in mortality and morbidity excluding annuities Before reinsurance 22 3 25 8 1 9 After reinsurance 5 3 8 3 1 4 1% increase in risk discount rates iv 101 50 151 25 16 41 Reduction in capital requirement to regulatory minimum v n a n a 17 n a n a n a 50% increase in capital requirements n a n a n a 3 1 4 10% increase in administrative expenses 58 15 73 6 5 11 10% reduction in administrative expenses 48 15 63 6 3 9 10% increase in lapses 30 30 60 12 8 20 10% reduction in lapses 36 33 69 12 8 20 10% increase in paid-up rates 11 1 12 7 2 9 10% reduction in paid-up rates 13 2 15 8 1 9 i As a market-consistent approach is used, equity and property expected returns only affect the derived risk discount rates and not the embedded value or contribution to profits from new business.
ii The movement in embedded value from a reduction in market values comprises a 3m 2006: 44m fall in the value of shareholders invested net assets and a 124m 2006: 108m reduction in the value of in-force Life & Pensions business.
Conversely, the effect of an increase in market values comprises a 3m 2006: 44m rise in the value of shareholders invested net assets and a 112m 2006: 114m increase in the value of in-force Life & Pensions business.
150 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:20 Page 151 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued iii Currency risk is expressed in terms of total overseas exposure: the principal currencies the Group is exposed to are the Euro and US Dollar.
iv Although not directly relevant under a market-consistent valuation where the risk discount rate is a derived disclosure only, this shows the impact of a change in the average derived risk discount rate, to enable adjustments to be made to reflect differing views of risk.
v Required capital is set at the greater of regulatory capital and requirements arising from internal capital management policies.
In aggregate the required capital is higher than the regulatory requirement by 200m 2006: 200m.
This sensitivity shows the impact on embedded value of using the lower regulatory capital requirements.
vi No changes to reserving or pricing bases are modelled in reaction to insurance and other risk sensitivities.
Change in embedded value Change in new business net of tax contribution gross of tax UK Int Total UK Int Total Year ended 31 December 2006 Notes m m m m m m Base EEV VNB 2,658 570 3,228 108 96 204 Market risk 1% increase in equity and property expected returns i n a n a n a n a n a n a 1% increase in risk-free rates, with corresponding change in fixed-interest asset values 129 13 142 7 2 9 1% reduction in risk-free rates, with corresponding change in fixed-interest asset values 135 11 146 6 1 7 10% increase in market values of equity and property assets ii 127 31 158 n a n a n a 10% reduction in market values of equity and property assets ii 120 32 152 n a n a n a 10% reduction in sterling overseas exchange rate iii 14 38 52 n a n a n a Insurance and other risk 5% reduction in annuitant mortality Before reinsurance 38 - 38 2 - 2 After reinsurance 38 - 38 2 - 2 5% increase in annuitant mortality Before reinsurance 36 - 36 2 - 2 After reinsurance 36 - 36 2 - 2 5% reduction in mortality and morbidity excluding annuities Before reinsurance 26 3 29 9 - 9 After reinsurance 5 3 8 5 - 5 5% increase in mortality and morbidity excluding annuities Before reinsurance 27 2 29 7 - 7 After reinsurance 6 2 8 2 - 2 1% increase in risk discount rates iv 125 43 168 29 8 37 Reduction in capital requirement to regulatory minimum v n a n a 16 n a n a n a 50% increase in capital requirements n a n a n a 3 - 3 10% increase in administrative expenses 43 12 55 7 3 10 10% reduction in administrative expenses 34 13 47 6 3 9 10% increase in lapses 29 27 56 15 6 21 10% reduction in lapses 34 31 65 11 7 18 10% increase in paid-up rates 9 1 10 8 - 8 10% reduction in paid-up rates 10 1 11 4 - 4 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 151 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:21 Page 152 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Asset Management The sensitivity analysis below is based on hypothetical changes in F&Cs significant market risk variables.
This analysis measures the change in fair value and cash flows of the Groups financial instruments.
The estimated changes in fair values for changes in exchange rates are based on an instantaneous increase or decrease of 10.0% for instruments at the reporting date, with all other variables remaining constant.
The estimated changes in fair values and cash flows for changes in market interest rates are based on an instantaneous increase or decrease of 1.0% of the value at the reporting date, with all other variables remaining constant.
No other F&C financial or insurance risks are material to the FP Group.
Profit or loss sensitivity Equity sensitivity 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m 10% increase in sterling overseas exchange rates 1 2 7 7 10% decrease in sterling overseas exchange rates 2 2 9 9 1% increase in sterling market interest rates 2 1 2 1 1% decrease in sterling market interest rates 2 1 2 1 A summary of how each risk is mitigated is provided below with, assets is to manage them so that they meet the capital requirements where appropriate, additional quantitative information on the of the Group, and support its future strategic and operational objectives.
The Board sets appetite for market risk for each of the different asset b Market risk classes.
Consideration is given to the objectives of the asset pools to which they relate and the nature of the liabilities backed by those assets.
Market risk is the risk of loss arising from a change in the values of, For example, in the Life & Pensions business, in relation to equity risk, or the income from, assets or in interest or exchange rates.
A risk of appetite varies from taking on the risk when it is beneficial to do so for loss also arises from volatility in asset prices, interest rates, or assets backing with-profits business in with-profits funds to not actively exchange rates.
Market risk includes the following five elements: pursuing risk for assets backing non-linked, non-profit policies.
The  Equity risk the risk of financial loss arising from a change of or Financial Risk Committee, in consultation with management and the volatility in equity prices or income Risk function, recommends appropriate risk appetite statements to the  Foreign exchange risk the risk of financial loss arising from a Board and reviews risk appetite on a regular basis.
change of or volatility in exchange rates  Interest rate risk the risk of financial loss arising from a change For assets backing non-linked policyholder liabilities, market risk is of or volatility in interest rates managed by matching, where possible, the duration and profile of  Property risk the risk of financial loss arising from a change of assets to the policyholder liabilities they are backing.
This helps or volatility in real estate values or income manage market risk to the extent that changes in the values of assets  Commodity risk the risk of financial loss arising from a change are matched by a corresponding movement in the values of liabilities.
of or volatility in commodity prices.
Shareholders earnings are further exposed to market risk to the Market risk arises on guarantees and options offered on certain of extent that the income from policyholder funds is based on the value the Groups products.
As described within the section on policyholder of financial assets held within those unit-linked or with-profits funds.
liabilities see note 28, the Group is exposed to guarantees on bonus additions that become more valuable as investment values fall.
In Within F&C, there is no net market risk in relation to customer addition, the Group is exposed to guaranteed cash and annuity assets because the risk is fully borne by the clients concerned.
options on certain pension policies that become more valuable as Other assets and liabilities do not expose the Asset Management interest rates fall.
business to significant market risk.
F&C actively pursues market risk in relation to the impact on management fees of movements in The Group manages market risk attaching to assets backing specific market variables such as equity prices and interest rates.
policyholder liabilities and to assets held to deliver income and gains for the shareholder.
Within the unit-linked funds and with profit funds, the The following summarises the key actions undertaken by the Group Group manages market risk so as to provide a return in line with the to manage all aspects of market risk: expectations of policyholders.
The principal objective for shareholder 152 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 153 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued level of return from policyholder assets.
Risk management objectives and policies for policies, the policyholders bear the majority of the investment risk mitigating risks continued and any change in asset values is matched by a broadly equivalent change in the liability.
Charges which are expressed as a percentage The Group Board Investment Committee oversees investment policy of fund values are also impacted by movements in equity and and strategy, which the Group actions primarily through the use of property prices.
Appetite for equity risk exposure for shareholder investment fund mandates.
Day-to-day implementation of investment funds has reduced.
Shareholder tactical equities were temporarily policy and strategy is managed predominantly by F&C in line with hedged out by selling FTSE100 futures and have since been sold off.
these approved mandates, subject to monitoring by the Group.
The management of equity investments for FPL&P in the UK is Mandates are set for each relevant fund within each of the largely undertaken on behalf of FPL&P by F&C.
In its decisioninsurance legal entities within the Group taking account of the making on equity investments, F&C will assess the extent of equity relevant factors outlined above.
Unit-linked funds are managed in risk required or allowed by the fund as set out in the fund objectives line with their underlying objectives as set out in policyholder and relative to defined performance benchmarks.
The mandates set limits on the level of market risk followed by F&C to manage equity risk within each fund is an permitted using some or all of the following mechanisms: integral part of the asset management approach adopted.
 defined performance benchmarks,  a maximum proportion of the fund that can be held in equities ii Foreign exchange risk and, for with-profit funds, a minimum level, The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its  restrictions on the size of companies within which equity investment in foreign operations, fee income derived from financial investment can be held eg potentially restricting UK equity instruments denominated in currencies other than its measurement to FTSE 100 stocks, currency pounds sterling, and revenues receivable in foreign  defined asset allocations between UK and overseas equity currency.
Exposure to foreign exchange risk through direct exposure in specific regions, investment in overseas equities and debt securities is minimal due  restrictions on the variation of the duration of the portfolio of to restrictions through limits placed by Investment mandates.
bonds from the benchmark duration.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to the risk that the exchange rate of its measurement currency relative to other currencies may Equity derivatives may be held to facilitate efficient portfolio change in a manner that has an adverse effect on the value of the management or to reduce investment risk without Groups financial assets and liabilities.
This risk is accepted, in disproportionately increasing other types of risk, and appropriate accordance with the agreed risk appetite, as being consequential approval must be obtained for their use.
Currency forwards and upon the Group following its agreed investment strategy.
other derivatives may be held to manage currency risk, but only if permitted by individual fund mandates.
For unit-linked contracts, currency risk is borne by the policyholder.
As noted above, the shareholders are subject to currency risk only to In addition to the mandates, the Group undertakes a programme of the extent that income from policyholder funds is based on the value asset liability management.
For example, in order to manage the of the financial assets held in those funds.
The liability for non-linked impact of interest changes on profit, corporate bonds and gilts are insurance contracts in currencies other than sterling is immaterial.
held to match the duration of annuity and permanent health insurance policies.
This provides matching of cash flows and The impact of exchange rate movements on F&C is minimised by valuation movements and is supplemented by the use of interest repatriation of excess foreign currency funds to sterling, and by rate swaps to improve asset liability matching as necessary.
holding regulatory capital in the local currency.
In order to manage the exposure arising from guarantees and iii Interest rate risk options, the Group has purchased a number of derivatives, including The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk where changes interest rate swaps, equity put options, interest rate swaptions, and to interest rates result in changes to fair values rather than cash equity futures to manage exposures to movements in equity prices flows, for example fixed interest rate loans and assets.
Hedge accounting has not been applied to these floating rate loans expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
derivatives, as movements in the fair value of these instruments will The Group holds both: be offset by the movement in the valuation of the liability.
As noted,  Receiver interest rate swaps where fixed payments are received the majority of these guarantees arise within FPLPs With-Profit in return for floating payments being paid increases to interest Fund and so any net fair value movement will be reflected in the rates increase cashflows payable and reduce fair value.
FFA rather than within shareholders funds.
 Payer interest rate swaps where floating payments are received in return for fixed payments being paid reductions to interest The following provides additional information on the exposure to rates reduce cashflows receivable and reduce fair value.
equity and property risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk: However, both types of swaps are in place in order to mirror the i Equity and property risk effect of interest rates on the liabilities and so the net effect of Equity and property risk, as defined above, are accepted in interest rate changes is minimal.
accordance with agreed risk appetite in order to achieve the desired Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 153 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:22 Page 154 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued The Group is averse to most other types of credit risk, in particular 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for that related to the default of derivative counterparties, reinsurers and mitigating risks continued deposit takers.
Bond related performance benchmarks within fund mandates are FPL&P is exposed to investment credit risk on its investment set so that asset profiles match liability profiles as closely as portfolio, primarily from investments in corporate bonds.
This mitigates against interest rate risk.
Day to day Creditworthiness assessment for new and existing investments is investment decisions around the management of interest rate risk largely undertaken on behalf of FPL&P by F&C.
In their decision and its impact on the value of FPL&Ps investments are largely making, F&C will assess the extent of investment credit risk allowed undertaken on behalf of FPL&P by F&C, within the boundaries set by each fund as set out in the fund mandates and relative to defined by fund mandates.
In its decision making on gilt and corporate bond performance benchmarks.
investments, F&C will assess the extent of interest rate risk allowed by the fund as set out in the fund objectives and relative to the The global credit crunch has had a minimal impact as FPL&P has defined performance benchmarks.
The methodology followed by very little exposure to the higher risk end of the market.
Shareholder F&C to manage interest rate risk within each specific fund is an exposure to directly held asset-backed securities is 770m, virtually integral part of the asset management approach adopted.
all of which are at investment grade.
Total exposure to US sub-prime mortgage backed securities within the Groups investment portfolio FPL&P may also be exposed to interest rate risk on its strategic is less than 5m.
investments, or any debt issuance.
As part of any proposal for strategic investment or debt capital raising, the interest rate risk to Derivatives purchased over the counter expose FPL&P to substantial which FPL&P is exposed will be given careful consideration as one credit risk unless this risk is appropriately managed.
The Asset of the factors impacting on the final recommendation.
Any proposed Liability Management function is responsible for recommending non F&C managed investments or debt raising with significant derivative strategies to the Board, and putting into place the interest rate risk will be reviewed by Group Risk.
Ultimate approval appropriate internal management processes.
FPL&P will endeavour for any strategic investments or debt raising rests with FP plc Board.
only to transact over-the-counter derivatives with highly rated counterparties.
c Credit risk FPL&P is exposed to reinsurance counterparty risk of three Credit risk is the risk of loss due to the default of a company, different types: individual or country.
Credit risk includes the following seven  as a result of debts arising from claims made by FPL&P but not elements: yet paid by the reinsurer  Investment credit risk financial loss arising from a change in the  from reinsurance premium payments made to the reinsurer in value of an investment due to a rating downgrade, default, or advance, and widening of credit spreads  as a result of reserves held by the reinsurer which would have  Derivative counterparty risk financial loss arising from a to be met by FPL&P in the event of default.
derivative counterpartys default, or the deterioration of the derivative counterpartys financial position In addition, there is potential for FPL&Ps credit risk exposure to  Reinsurance counterparty risk financial loss arising from a increase significantly under adverse insurance risk events, eg if FPL&P reinsurers default, or the deterioration of the reinsurers financial received a large number of claims for which it needed to recover position amounts from its reinsurers.
In order to mitigate reinsurance  Deposit risk financial loss arising from a deposit institutions counterparty risk, FPL&P will give due consideration to the credit default, or the deterioration of the deposit institutions financial quality of a reinsurer before incepting a reinsurance treaty.
To facilitate position this process, a list of acceptable reinsurers is maintained within Life &  Loan risk financial loss arising from a debtors inability to repay Pensions Finance.
all, or part, of its loan obligations to the Group or the deterioration of the debtors financial position FPL&P is exposed to credit risk on the balances deposited with banks in the form of cash, certificates of deposit and money market  Country risk financial loss arising from economic agents in a instruments.
Money market instruments issued by parties other sovereign foreign country, including its government, being unable than banks such as commercial paper are also covered under this or unwilling to fulfil their international obligations due to a heading.
Given the high credit quality of the deposit institutions and shortage of foreign exchange or another common reason such as the short-dated nature of these credit risk exposures, the primary currency inconvertibility risk to FPL&P under this heading is concentration risk: this is  Settlement risk financial loss arising from the failure or mitigated by limiting holding in any one issuer to 5%.
substantial delay of an expected settlement in a transfer system to take place, due to the party other than FPL&P defaulting not FPL&P is exposed to loan risk in several different areas, the most delivering on its settlement obligations.
material of which are:  loans to IFAs as part of strategic investments The Life & Pensions business will take on investment credit risk and  stocklending arrangements loan risk when it is deemed financially beneficial to do so in support  other strategic loans of the Groups strategic objectives.
F&C actively pursues credit risk  loans to appointed representatives in relation to the impact on management fees of credit events.
154 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 155 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Credit rating Limit 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued AAA 1,000m AA 750m A 600m  loans to brokers BBB 100m  agency debt including debt arising as a result of clawback of Below investment grade 20m commission  policyholder debt  rental income due.
The exposure to individual counterparties is limited to specific percentages of total non-linked assets in the long term fund, based In general, these quantitative credit exposures are relatively low but on regulatory categorisation of counterparties.
These are typically they can bear relatively high likelihoods of default.
less than 3% of non-linked assets.
FPL&P is exposed to country risk in a number of key areas, the Concentrations of credit risk might exist where the Group has most significant of which is bonds issued by foreign governments significant exposure to a group of counterparties with similar in non-domestic currency.
economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in The management of country risk on the creditworthiness of our economic and other conditions.
investments is largely undertaken on behalf of FPL&P by F&C.
F&C is exposed to a concentration of credit risk to the extent of Settlement risk is a form of credit risk that arises at the settlement timing differences between the recognition of income for services of a transaction, as a result of a counterparty, failing to perform its rendered and the timing of receipt of management fees from clients.
FPLP is exposed to settlement risk in the following key areas: The amount disclosed in the balance sheet in respect of financial  bank transfers, including foreign exchange transactions assets represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
 the purchase or sale of investments  the purchase or sale of property F&Cs treasury policy limits the exposure, to any one counterparty  the purchase, sale or expiry of exchange-traded derivatives or in respect of cash and cash equivalents, to 25m, recognising that the transfer of periodic payments under these contracts each counterparty used has been approved by the F&C Credit  the settlement of derivative contracts.
There is no net credit risk in relation to client assets as this risk is borne fully by the clients concerned.
Settlement risk on assets that form part of F&C funds is managed as an integral part of the asset management approach adopted.
An indication of the Groups exposure to credit risk is the quality of the investments and counterparties with which it transacts.
The Objectives in managing credit risk Group is most exposed to credit risk on debt and other fixed income securities, derivative financial instruments, deposits with credit To mitigate credit risk:  Investment mandates for many funds will have a prescribed institutions, reinsurance arrangements and cash and cash minimum credit rating of bonds that may be held.
Debt and other fixed income securities mainly comprise diverse portfolio reduces the impact from individual companies government bonds and corporate bonds.
Given the nature of the defaulting.
Groups investments in government bonds the credit risk associated  Counterparty limits are set for investments, cash deposits, with these is considered small and the Group therefore focuses on foreign exchange trade exposure and stock lending.
monitoring the quality of its corporate bonds.
 All derivative transactions are covered by collateral, with minor exceptions.
The following table gives an indication of the level of  The Group regularly reviews the financial security of its creditworthiness of those categories of assets which neither past reinsurers.
due nor impaired and are most exposed to credit risk using principally ratings prescribed by Standard & Poors and Moodys.
The counterparty and individual issuer credit rating limits excluding Assets held within unit-linked funds have been excluded from the linked funds, and hence exposure to credit risk, by individual tables below as the credit risk on these assets is borne by the regulated entity are as follows: policyholders rather than the shareholders.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 155 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 2 4 08 13:32 Page 156 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued At 31 December 2007 AAA AA A BBB BB B Not rated Total m m m m m m m m Corporate bonds 2,153 2,959 1,787 395 23 7 133 7,457 Derivative financial instruments - 155 - - - - - 155 Reinsurance assets - 1,979 - 1 - - 35 2,015 Deposits with credit institutions - 9 37 - - - 9 55 Cash and cash equivalents 1,019 963 250 - - - 6 2,238 At 31 December 2006 AAA AA A BBB BB B Not rated Total m m m m m m m m Corporate bonds 2,641 1,676 2,424 652 7 7 210 7,617 Derivative financial instruments - 181 1 - - - - 182 Reinsurance assets - 85 - - - - - 85 Deposits with credit institutions 13 39 93 - - - - 145 Cash and cash equivalents 566 772 292 - - - 6 1,636 It is FPLP policy to make no new investment in non-rated assets in the non-linked fund.
The following tables show the amounts of insurance receivables and loans that were impaired and the amounts of insurance receivables and loans that were either past due or but not impaired at the end of the year.
No other financial assets were either past due or impaired at the end of the year.
Assets held in unit-linked funds have been excluded from the tables.
At 31 December 2007 Insurance receivables Loans Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired 82.3% 100.0% Financial assets that are past due: 0 3 months past due 14.9% - 3 6 months past due 0.4% - 6 12 months past due 1.6% - Impaired financial assets for which provision is made 0.8% - Total m 550 15 At 31 December 2006 Insurance receivables Loans Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired 89.8% 100.0% Financial assets that are past due: 0 3 months past due 7.6% - 3 6 months past due 1.9% - 6 12 months past due 0.5% - Impaired financial assets for which provision is made 0.2% - Total m 421 15 For over-the-counter derivative transactions undertaken by FPL&P, collateral is received from the counterparty if the sum of all contracts held with the counterparty are in-the-money ie is an asset of FPL&P.
The Group has a legal right to this collateral if the counterparty does not meet its obligations.
It is repayable if the contract terminates or the contracts fair value falls.
Contractual agreements between the Group and each counterparty exist to protect the interests of each party, taking into consideration minimum threshold, asset class of collateral pledged and the frequency of valuation.
At 31 December 2007 the fair value of such collateral held was 143m 2006: 181m.
No collateral received from the counterparty has been sold or repledged.
156 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 157 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Reinsurance assets include an amount of 1,611m which relates to a reinsurance agreement with Swiss Re.
The asset is secured by a collateral arrangement offering protection should any counterparty supporting the Reinsurance Agreement default.
An Investment Management Agreement exists between the Group and Swiss Re to govern the suitability of collateral assets.
As at 31 December 2007 the value of such collateral was 1,614m.
d Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity, although solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to it in order to meet its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The Group faces two key types of liquidity risk:  shareholder liquidity risk liquidity within funds managed for the benefit of shareholders, including shareholders interests in long-term funds and  policyholder liquidity risk liquidity within funds managed for the benefit of policyholders.
Longer-term shareholder liquidity risk will be taken on when it is deemed financially beneficial for the organisation to do so, or where the taking of this liquidity risk is in support of strategic objectives.
Short-term shareholder liquidity risk is avoided due to the need to satisfy dividend expectations, and to meet the needs of the business, whilst having a limited timeframe to raise capital.
Policyholder liquidity risk is not accepted, over either a short or longer-term timeframe, in all but the most extreme scenarios the exception being the property funds where a six month notice period is required for switches and withdrawals.
The same is true for liquidity risk in F&Cs investors funds.
The Group is exposed to shareholder liquidity risk in a number of key areas.
For example:  the ability to support the liquidity requirements arising from new business  the capacity to maintain dividend payments loan repayments and interest etc  the ability to cope with the liquidity implications of strategic initiatives, such as merger and acquisition activity  the capacity to provide financial support across the Group  the ability to fund its day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The overall objective of shareholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over short up to one year and medium time horizons to meet the needs of the business.
For policyholder funds, liquidity risk arises from a number of potential areas, including:  a short-term mismatch between cash flows assets and cash flow requirements of liabilities  having to realise assets to meet liabilities during stressed market conditions  investments in illiquid assets such as property and private placement debt  higher than expected level of lapses surrenders caused by economic shock, adverse reputational issues or other events  higher than expected payments of claims on insurance contracts  the implementaion of temporary restrictions for the withdrawal of funds, as recently applied by extending the notice periods of switches and withdrawals from Property Funds.
Exposure to policyholder liquidity risk can be split between non-linked and linked funds.
As a general rule, the Group is more likely to be significantly impacted by policyholder liquidity risk on non-linked funds, as opposed to linked funds where policyholder benefits are expressed directly as units held in an underlying fund.
The overall objective of policyholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that sufficient liquid funds are available to meet cash flow requirements under all but the most extreme scenarios.
Liquidity risk is managed in the following way:  Forecasts are prepared regularly to predict required liquidity levels over both the short and medium term.
 Committed third party funding facilities are held to enable cash to be raised in a relatively short time-span.
 Credit risk of cash deposits is managed by applying counterparty limits and imposing restrictions over the credit ratings of third parties with whom cash is deposited.
 Assets of a suitable maturity and marketability are held to meet policyholder liabilities as they fall due.
 Limits are set on the level of investment in securities that are not readily realisable.
These are typically restricted to 5% of non-linked assets.
Where contracts have a surrender value ie the policy is theoretically payable on demand the following table shows the current surrender value in the within one year or payable on demand column.
Otherwise it indicates the undiscounted expected contractual net cash flows in respect of financial and insurance liabilities.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 157 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 158 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Contractual undiscounted cash flows Within 1 year Carrying or payable More than value on demand 15 years 5 years Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m Insurance contracts 13,607 8,263 911 5,540 Investment contracts 37,266 37,570 - 69 Loans and borrowings: Principal 738 108 13 617 Interest - 38 149 150 Due to reinsurers 1,611 128 485 2,218 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 909 909 - - Insurance payables and other payables 559 559 - - Contractual undiscounted cash flows Within 1 year Carrying or payable More than value on demand 15 years 5 years Year ended 31 December 2006 m m m m Insurance contracts 13,762 8,746 893 5,315 Investment contracts 32,821 32,737 1 213 Loans and borrowings: Principal 1,130 468 28 644 Interest - 57 160 211 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 941 941 - - Insurance payables and other payables 516 508 4 4 Lombard deferred consideration 75 75 - - Amounts expected to be settled from the fund for future appropriation are excluded from the analysis above as there is no contractual obligation to settle the liability.
Of the carrying amount on the balance sheet in respect of the FFA, 433m 2006: 380m is expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
The Group has issued fixed rate subordinated loan notes repayable in 2016, with the option of extending the term to 2026 at a floating rate.
This has provided the Group with long-term flexible funding at a fixed rate of interest.
e Policy cash flow risk including insurance risk Policy cash flow risk consists of the following four main areas: Insurance risks:  mortality risk risk of loss arising due to policyholder deaths experience being different from expectations: or for annuities, risk of annuitants living longer than expected called annuity longevity risk :  morbidity risk risk of loss arising due to policyholder health experience being different from expectations.
Other risks:  policyholder decision risk risk of loss arising from experience of actual policyholder behaviour eg lapses, option take-up being different from expectations:  expense risk risk of loss due to expense experience being different from expectations.
The Life & Pensions business actively pursues mortality risk other than annuitant mortality risk and morbidity risk in those areas where it believes it has a competitive advantage in managing these risks to generate shareholder value without compromising the interests of policyholders, and the need to treat customers fairly.
Annuitant mortality risk, policyholder decision risk and expense risk are taken on when it is deemed financially beneficial for the organisation to do so, or where the taking of these risks is in support of the Groups strategic objectives.
158 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 159 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Income protection 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for The two main risks related to income protection are an increase in the mitigating risks continued frequency of claims the inception rate and an increase in the average length of the claim a reduction in recovery rate.
Most income Underpinning the Groups management of policy cash flow risk is: protection policies are regular premium with the premium and cover  adherence to an approved underwriting policy that takes into fixed at inception.
Some group policies allow premiums to be reviewed account the level of risk that the Group is prepared to accept: but the premium rates are usually guaranteed for three years.
 controls around the development of products and their pricing: and Annuities  regular analysis of actual mortality, morbidity and lapse If annuitants live longer than expected on average, profits will experience which feeds into the development of products and reduce.
In most cases the annuity is guaranteed payable for a fixed policies.
If the analysis changes expectations of future liability term and many policies are written so that when the first life dies cashflows, periodic adjustments are made to asset cashflows to the benefit continues, often at a reduced level.
These features tend maintain the asset liability match.
to reduce the volatility of results to random fluctuations in experience but not the impact of a general increase in longevity.
Risks in excess of agreed underwriting limits may be reinsured.
The Groups objective is to purchase reinsurance in the most Deferred annuities are subject to a similar risk from the impact of cost-effective manner from reinsurers whose creditworthiness is longevity, the only difference being that the risk of adverse impact is deemed appropriate.
greater given that the annuity is payable further into the future.
However, most of these policies are with-profits and the impact Substantially all insurance contracts, and the majority of the would be offset by a reduction in the FFA, with relatively little combined insurance and investment contract portfolio, are written in resulting impact on shareholder profits.
the UK and so results are sensitive to changes in the UK insurance market and tax regime.
Otherwise the Group sells a diverse range of Annuity risk of the Group has significantly reduced through a products to a diverse group of people.
reinsurance agreement with Swiss Re on policies valued at 1,611m at 31 December 2007.
Note 28 describes the main insurance contracts written by the Group and the basis of setting assumptions in measuring insurance ii Policyholder decision risk liabilities which will take into account the risks above.
The following Persistency experience varies over time as well as from one type of sections describe how policy cash flow risks are managed and contract to another.
Factors that will cause lapse rates to vary over provide an indication of the sensitivity of reported profit to the risk.
time include changes in investment performance of the assets Each sensitivity has been calculated independently of the remaining underlying the contract where appropriate, regulatory changes that risks ie correlations between risks have been ignored.
make alternative products more attractive, customer perceptions of the insurance industry in general and the Group in particular, and the F&C insurance contracts are all annuity contracts with guaranteed general economic environment.
payment during the life time of the annuitant at a specified level or with a specified escalation factor.
They are 100 per cent reinsured to The valuation of the Groups guarantees and options is described in Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
As stated in that note, the cost of guaranteed annuity options is dependent on decisions made by policyholders such as i Mortality and morbidity risk policy discontinuance and tax-free cash take-up.
These assumptions Life assurance are set by reference to recent experience.
Most insurance policies other than annuities and deferred annuity policies include life assurance.
When pricing policies, an assumption iii Expense risk is made as to the likelihood of death and this assumption is Though under IFRS 4 expense risk is not a component of insurance reviewed as part of the annual valuation of policies.
To the extent risk, it is an important policy cash flow risk in the context of that actual mortality experience is worse than that anticipated in insurance and investment contracts.
pricing and subsequently in the insurance liability valuation a loss will be made.
The risk is greater for those policies such as term The whole of the impact of changes in expense levels is borne by assurance where the maturity or surrender benefit is small in relation shareholders with the following exceptions.
In 2009 the charges to the death benefit.
Other policies which have a savings element, made to the FPLP With-Profits Fund for managing policies will be such as endowment assurance have significant liabilities relating to reviewed to reflect market rates at the time.
Pre-demutualisation the maturity benefit, particularly as the policy approaches maturity.
with-profits policyholders will bear the impact of any resulting Contractual terms for unit-linked and unitised with-profits products changes to charges.
Also FPLA closed fund with-profits include provision for increases in mortality charges.
policyholders bear the full expense risk for the fund.
Critical illness Contractual terms for unit-linked and unitised with-profits products The Group writes a number of critical illness policies that pay out in include provision for increases in charges.
Certain expenses such as the event of a policyholders ill health.
As for life assurance, the fees commissions are fixed at the time a contract is written.
amount payable on ill health can be significantly higher than the amount payable if the policy is surrendered.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 159
