FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:13 Page 137 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 27.
Terms and conditions of insurance and investment contracts The main types of insurance and investment contracts that the Group currently has in force are: i Life Protection business other than whole life products these insurance contracts consist mainly of regular premium term assurance, critical illness and income protection products, which pay out a fixed amount the sum assured on ill health or death.
The premium rate is usually guaranteed for the lifetime of the contract.
For most policies this payout will be a single amount, whereas income protection products provide a regular income upon incapacity either for the length of illness or to the end of the contract if earlier, depending on the specific policyholder terms.
Most contracts have no surrender value.
Endowments and whole life products these insurance contracts both provide benefits upon death or, in the case of endowments, at a preset maturity date if earlier.
These policies often have a surrender value, particularly in the later years of the contract.
The amount payable on death is subject to a guaranteed minimum amount.
The maturity value usually depends on the investment performance of the underlying assets.
For with-profits business, it is underpinned by a minimum guarantee, which may be increased by the addition of bonuses.
Single premium bonds these are unit linked or unitised with-profits investment contracts that have no maturity date.
On death, the amount paid is 100%-105% of the value of the units.
On surrender the value of units is paid, sometimes in the first few years less a surrender penalty.
For with-profits contracts a final bonus may be payable on death or surrender, or if markets are depressed a market value reduction may be applied to the surrender values.
ii Pensions Individual and group pensions these contracts generally provide a cash sum at retirement.
If death occurs before retirement, they generally return the value of the fund accumulated or in some cases premiums paid are returned.
Contracts with guaranteed cash and annuity options see below are defined as insurance contracts but in the absence of these guarantees products are normally defined as investment contracts.
Annuities in payment these insurance contracts are typically single premium products, which provide for a regular payment to the policyholder whilst they and or their spouse are still alive.
Payments are generally either fixed or increased each year at a specified rate or in line with the rate of inflation.
Most contracts guarantee an income for a minimum period usually of five years, irrespective of death.
iii Guarantees and options The main guarantees and options included within the Groups insurance contracts, the majority of which arise within FPLPs With-Profits Fund, are as follows: Guaranteed cash and annuity options most conventional deferred annuity contracts have benefit options expressed in terms of cash and annuity payments with a guaranteed conversion rate, allowing the policyholder the option of taking the more valuable of the two at retirement.
Guarantees in respect of bonus additions bonuses added to with-profits policies increase the guaranteed minimum benefit that policyholders are entitled to at maturity.
These are set at a level that takes account of expected market fluctuations, such that the cost of the guarantee is generally met by the investment performance of the assets backing the policyholder liability.
However in circumstances where there has been a significant fall in investment markets, such as that which occurred in 2001 to 2003, the guaranteed maturity benefits may exceed asset shares and these guarantees become valuable to the policyholder.
Guaranteed surrender bases certain older products have a guaranteed basis for calculating surrender values.
In all these cases the basis includes an element of final bonus which can be reduced or taken away.
The guaranteed basis typically applies over a period of 15 years but in most cases policies are approaching the end of this period.
The effect of the guaranteed surrender basis is to extend the guarantee in respect of bonus additions so that they apply over an extended period and not just at the maturity date.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 137
