FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 86 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued b Share based payment schemes 1.
Accounting policies continued The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings offer share based payment schemes to employees of the Group, depending on Fees charged for services to be provided in future periods are deferred eligibility.
The fair value of equity-settled share based payments is and recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis as measured at the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis the services are provided over the expected term of the contract.
over the vesting period in the income statement.
A corresponding amount is credited to equity.
25 Employee benefits a Pension obligations At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the i Defined benefit schemes number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It Pension schemes are in operation for employees of certain recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in subsidiary undertakings.
The principal schemes, to which the the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity majority of employees belong, are of the funded defined benefit over the remaining vesting period.
The fair value is measured using type with assets managed by F&C Asset Management plc F&C, scenario based modelling techniques that take into account the a subsidiary undertaking.
The schemes provide benefits based on terms and conditions upon which these options were granted.
The assets of the schemes are held in amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual separate trustee administered funds.
number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The pension asset and liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present obligation of the employer, which is the estimated present The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected in the value of future benefits that employees have earned in return for computation of diluted earnings per share.
their services in the current and prior years, less the value of the plan assets in the schemes.
The pension surplus is recognised to For cash-settled schemes, the fair value of the share based payment the extent it is recoverable through available reductions in future is measured at the grant date and expensed over the vesting period contributions.
The discount rate applied to the employees benefits in the income statement with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
is the appropriate AA rated corporate bond yield at the balance The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is remeasured at sheet date.
A qualified actuary performs the calculation annually each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
using the projected unit credit method.
26 Share capital and dividends The pension costs for the schemes are charged to the income Where either the Company or F&C has a holding in its own equity statement and consist of current service cost, past service cost, which has been classified as treasury shares, the consideration paid interest cost on scheme liabilities, the effect of any settlements and is deducted from reserves.
Where such shares are subsequently curtailments, and the expected return on pension assets.
Past sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straightis included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders, line basis over the period in which the increase in benefits vest.
net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new valuation and from updating the latest actuarial valuation to reflect conditions Dividends are recognised as an appropriation on the date declared by at the balance sheet date, are taken to the statement of recognised the Groups directors or, if subject to approval, by the shareholders.
income and expense for the period.
The adjustment is shown net of deferred taxation.
Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements ii Defined contribution schemes Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the income The Group makes estimates, assumptions and judgements in the statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of application of critical accounting policies, that affect the reported the scheme.
amounts of assets and liabilities.
Estimates, assumptions and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical iii Other long-term employee benefits experience and other factors, including expectations of future events Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the discounted that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The obligation is calculated using the unit credit method.
a Product classification IFRS 4 requires contracts to be classified as either insurance contracts iv Termination benefits or investment contracts based on the significance of insurance Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense risk present in the contract with consequential impacts on the when the Group terminates the employment of an employee before accounting policies applied to the valuation of policyholder liabilities, the normal retirement date.
deferral of acquisition costs and pattern of revenue recognition.
86 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 87 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued The carrying value of goodwill is 733m 2006: 662m and of other 2.
Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements intangible assets is 723m 2006: 743m.
Details of the testing of continued impairment performed during the year are contained in note 16. b Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and investment d Provision for the review of mortgage endowment and other sales contracts with DPF The Group has made provision for the estimated cost and The estimation of the ultimate liabilities of insurance contracts compensation associated with the review of mortgage endowment or investment contracts with DPF arising is a critical accounting and other sales.
These provisions are subject to considerable estimate.
There are several sources of uncertainty that need to be uncertainty and are influenced by external factors beyond the control considered in the estimation of the liabilities that the Group will of management.
Although the provisions are regularly reviewed, the ultimately pay on maturity of the policies and on claims made.
final outcome could be different from the provision established.
A number of assumptions are used to determine the liabilities of The total carrying value including actuarial provisions for the review insurance contracts or investment contracts with DPF, which contain of mortgage endowment and other sales is 37m 2006: 63m.
The most significant assumptions are:  mortality, morbidity and persistency assumptions: e Fair value determination of financial instruments at fair value  for with-profits policies within FPLP, the stochastic model used through the income statement to value liabilities is sensitive to risk-free rates, assumed asset Financial assets are designated at fair value as they are managed on volatilities and the assumed correlation between asset volatilities.
Financial liabilities such as investment contracts Risk-free rates are set in accordance with current market rates: are designated at fair value to eliminate mismatch with  for other policies, the valuation interest rate is the most corresponding assets.
significant economic assumption:  for guaranteed annuity options one of the principal guarantees Fair values are based on quoted bid prices for a specific instrument, written by the Group the cost depends on assumptions such or comparisons with other highly similar financial instruments, or the as the level of policy discontinuance and the tax-free cash use of valuation models.
Establishing valuations where there are no take-up rate: quoted bid prices inherently involves the use of judgement.
 changes in assumptions behind the valuation techniques for assets that are not quoted in active markets could have a Methods considered when determining fair values of unlisted shares significant impact on the value of assets that are backing and other variable securities include discounted cash flow insurance and investment contract liabilities.
techniques, net asset valuation or carrying value.
The carrying value of insurance contracts liabilities is 13,607m The value of derivative financial instruments is estimated by applying 2006: 13,762m and investment contracts liabilities with DPF valuation techniques, using pricing models or discounted cash flow is 5,002m 2006: 5,700m.
Where pricing models are used, inputs including future dividends, swap rates and volatilities based on market data at the c Impairment testing balance sheet date are used to estimate derivative values.
Where The Group is required to perform an annual impairment test of discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash goodwill.
Other assets, excluding those assets held at fair value flows and discount rates are based on current market swap rates.
through the income statement, are reviewed where there is an indication of impairment.
For most assets this requires the Group For units in unit trusts and shares in open ended investment to estimate future cash flows and discount these amounts using a companies, fair value is by reference to published bid-values.
suitable rate which reflects the risk of those cash flows.
In projecting cash flows, the Group makes a number of assumptions Participation in investment pools mainly relates to property on matters which include, but are not restricted to: investments.
Property is independently valued in accordance with  Investment market conditions the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors guidelines on the basis  Sales and margins of open fair values as at each year end.
 Expenses  Policy client lapses The carrying amount of financial assets at fair value through the  Discount rates income statement excluding units in unit trusts and shares in open  Terminal values ended investment companies that are not based on quoted bid prices is 1,506m 2006: 1,835m.
An analysis of financial assets These assumptions are established using managements best by category is disclosed in note 21. estimate of the likely outcome but with all assumptions there remains a degree of uncertainty as to the final results.
The total amount of the change in fair value of financial assets estimated using a valuation technique that is recognised in the Management have determined that there are six segments for income statement during the year is a charge of 62m 2006: 98m.
impairment testing: UK Life & Pensions: Lombard: FPI: Asset Management: and IFA groups Sesame and Pantheon Financial.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 87
