FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 177 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the EEV results The shareholders net worth includes the corporate debt of the Group.
Methodology This debt is valued at market value, consistent with the EEV guidance.
1.1 Basis of preparation EEV and other balance sheet items denominated in foreign The EEV results presented in this document have been prepared currencies have been translated to sterling using the appropriate in accordance with the European Insurers Chief Financial Officers closing exchange rate.
The new business contribution and other Forums EEV Principles issued in May 2004 and the Additional income statement items have been translated using an average Guidance issued in 2005.
They provide supplementary information exchange rate for the relevant period.
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
1.2 Covered business The EEV basis of reporting is designed to recognise profit as it is The covered business incorporates the Life & Pensions business earned over the term of the policy.
The total profit recognised over defined as long-term business by UK and overseas regulators.
the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
The Asset Management business, IFA distribution businesses and the Asset Hub are excluded from the definition of covered business.
The reported embedded value provides an estimate of the value For the purposes of segmentation the IFA distribution businesses of shareholders interest in the covered business, excluding any and the Asset Hub are included within UK Life & Pensions.
value that may be generated from future new business.
This value comprises the sum of the shareholders net worth, the provision 1.3 Allowance for risk for future corporate costs and the value of existing business.
The shareholders net worth is the net assets attributable to The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature shareholders, and is represented by the sum of required capital of the EEV Principles.
The EEV guidance sets out three main areas and free surplus.
The value of existing business is the present value available to allow for risk in an embedded value: of the projected stream of future distributable profits available to  the risk discount rate: shareholders from the existing business at the valuation date, on  the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: a best estimate basis allowing for risk, adjusted for the cost of  the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional holding required capital.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with The market-consistent approach has been used to allow for risk in the Groups IFRS results.
These contain information regarding the all three areas.
Groups financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted 1.4 Deriving risk discount rates for use in the EU.
A market-consistent embedded value has been calculated for each product line by valuing the cash flows in line with the prices of The results for covered business as reported under EEV principles similar cash flows traded on the open market.
are combined with the results for the remainder of the business reported in accordance with IFRS, except where EEV principles In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate dictate otherwise.
In particular the EEV principles have been applied consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital to reflect Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS as markets.
For example, an equity cash flow is valued using an equity debt rather than equity.
risk discount rate, and a bond cash flow is valued using a bond risk discount rate.
If a higher return is assumed for equities, the equity In addition, a pro forma embedded value is reported showing cash flow is discounted at this higher rate.
ordinary shareholders funds on an EEV basis adjusted to include the F&C listed subsidiary at market value.
In practice, for liabilities where the payouts are either independent or move linearly with market movements, a method known as the Shareholders net assets on an EEV basis for the Group consist of certainty equivalent approach has been applied whereby all the following: assumed assets earn the risk-free rate and all cash flows are  Life & Pensions net assets: discounted using the risk-free rate.
This gives the same result as  the Groups share of its investment in the Asset Management applying the method in the previous paragraph.
business including the net pension liability on an IFRS basis:  corporate net assets: A market-consistent cost of financial options and guarantees and a  the net pension asset of FPPS on an IAS 19 basis: market-consistent cost of holding required capital have also been  the provision for future corporate costs: calculated.
The cost of financial options and guarantees includes  the present value of future profits attributable to shareholders additional allowance for non-market risk within FPLPs With-Profits from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
An additional provision has been made for operational risks.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 177 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 178 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL ST IFRS FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the EEV results continued 1.
Methodology continued 1.6 Required capital and the cost of capital Required capital is set at the greater of regulatory capital and These are described in more detail below.
requirements arising from internal capital management policies, which include economic risk capital objectives.
The economic risk For presentational purposes, a set of risk discount rates has been capital is determined from internal models, based on the Companys derived for each product line, and for in-force and new business, risk appetite.
by calculating the risk discount rate under a traditional embedded value approach that gives the same value as that from the marketIn aggregate, required capital is higher than regulatory requirements consistent embedded value determined above.
These derived risk by approximately 200m 2006: 200m.
Capital requirements under discount rates are a function of the assumptions used eg equity risk EEV amounted to 668m 2006: 652m.
premium and corporate bond spreads.
However, as the marketconsistent approach is used, these assumptions do not impact the The EEV includes a deduction for the cost of holding the required level of embedded value: a higher equity risk premium results in an capital.
Frictional costs, being the tangible costs of holding capital, exactly compensating higher risk discount rate.
have been allowed for on a market-consistent basis.
These consist of the total taxation and investment expenses incurred on locked-in 1.5 Financial options and guarantees shareholder capital and reflect the cost to an investor of holding an asset through investment in a life company, rather than investing in The material financial options and guarantees are those in the the asset directly.
FPLP With-Profits Fund, in the form of the benefits guaranteed to policyholders and the guaranteed annuity rates associated with No adjustment has been made for any agency cost, this certain policies.
representing the potential markdown to value that investors will apply because they do not have direct control over their capital.
Any The risk to shareholders is that the assets of the With-Profits Fund adjustment would be subjective and different investors will have are insufficient to meet these guarantees.
While shareholders are their own views of what adjustment, if any, should be made.
entitled to only a small share of profits in the With-Profits Fund via one ninth of the cost of bonus, they can potentially be exposed to 1.7 Non-market risk the full cost if fund assets are insufficient to meet policyholder guarantees.
The time value cost of this asymmetry, known as the An investor can diversify away the uncertainty around the return on burnthrough cost, is modelled stochastically, as it will only occur in non-market risks, such as mortality and expenses.
Hence in a some adverse scenarios.
The burnthrough time value cost is shareholder valuation the allowance for non-market risk is made calculated as the difference between the average value of through the appropriate choice of best estimate experience shareholder cash flows under a number of market-consistent assumptions and the impact of non-market risks on the level, and scenarios, and the intrinsic shareholder value using risk-free hence the cost, of capital.
assumptions included within the deterministic model.
In choosing best estimate assumptions the allowance for nonThe burnthrough cost has been assessed using a stochastic model market risk has been reviewed.
However, best estimate derived from the current Realistic Balance Sheet RBS model.
This assumptions may fail to represent the full impact on shareholder model has been calibrated to market conditions at the valuation value where the impact of fluctuations in experience is asymmetric: date.
Allowance has been made under the different scenarios for that is where adverse experience has a higher impact on management actions, such as altered investment strategy, shareholder value than favourable experience.
The areas identified consistent with the RBS model.
The burnthrough cost would be as having such asymmetries are the burnthrough cost and markedly higher without the hedging activities currently undertaken.
The burnthrough cost at 31 December 2007 of 48m 2006: 50m, The impact of variations in non-market risks to shareholders of is split between 23m 2006: 30m market risk and 25m meeting guarantees of the FPLP With-Profits fund have been taken 2006: 20m non-market risk.
The non-market risks include lapses, into account in the burnthrough cost calculation.
annuitant longevity, and operational risk within the With-Profits Fund.
The allowance for non-market risks is made by consideration of the In addition, a provision of 87m 2006: 85m has been set up for impact of extreme scenarios from our economic capital model.
operational risks in the shareholders funds.
This provision has been calculated by comparing the mean impact of variations in operational Significant amounts of new with-profits business are no longer risk, as modelled in the economic capital calculations, with the written and the guarantee levels offered are lower, hence there is no existing allowance for operational risk in specific accounting material impact of the burnthrough cost in the contribution to profits provisions and embedded value projection assumptions.
178 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 179 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the EEV results continued Productivity gains have been assumed within the EEV in respect 1.
Methodology continued of International business in anticipation of future business growth.
The Lombard EEV has been reduced by 15m 2006: 13m for a This provision of 87m is equivalent to a 0.4% pa 2006: 0.4% pa projected expense overrun for the period to 2013. increase in the risk discount rate for UK Life & Pensions business and 0.8% pa 2006: 0.8% pa for International Life & Pensions c Development costs business.
This impacts both embedded value and the contribution Development costs reported in this years financial statements from new business.
represent investments made to improve future EEV profits.
1.8 Expenses In the future development costs will only include costs related to The EEV guidance requires companies to actively review expense developing wholly new products or entering wholly new markets.
assumptions, and include an allowance for holding company As a consequence future costs of 20m per annum that would corporate costs and service company costs.
otherwise have been treated as development costs have been capitalised and reclassified as maintenance expenses.
a Corporate costs Corporate costs relate to those costs incurred at the corporate level 1.9 New business that are not directly attributable to the Life & Pensions or the Asset New business within the covered business includes: Management businesses.
 premiums from the sale of new contracts:  payments on recurring single premium contracts, including Under EEV methodology, corporate costs are classified as either Department for Work and Pensions rebate premiums, except ongoing costs or development and one-off costs.
For 2007, 12m existing stakeholder-style pensions business where, if a regular 2006: 6m of corporate costs were regular ongoing corporate pattern in the receipt of premiums for individuals has been costs and 2m 2006: 7m were development or one-off costs.
The established, the regular payment is treated as a renewal of an ongoing corporate costs have increased to include corporate costs in existing contract and not new business: relation to group businesses, previously held outside EEV, and have  non-contractual increments on existing policies: and been capitalised under EEV.
The impact is a provision of 97m  new entrants in the group pensions business.
The EEV new business definition is consistent with the quarterly b Service costs New Business disclosure.
Service company costs are included in the EEV expense assumption calculations.
Included within these are the fees charged by F&C for investment management services to the covered Life & Pensions business.
Profits of IFA subsidiaries in respect of covered Life & Pensions business are not capitalised under the EEV methodology as those subsidiaries are separate cash generating units and run autonomously.
Instead, these profits, which are immaterial, are brought into the consolidated income statement on an IFRS basis.
F&C service fee profits in respect of covered Life & Pensions business are not capitalised under the EEV methodology, as F&C is a separate business segment within the Group and the arrangement between F&C and the Life & Pensions business is on an arms length basis.
Instead, these profits, approximately 11m 2006: 11m are brought into the consolidated income statement on an IFRS basis, and F&C is brought into the pro forma embedded value at market value.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 179
