FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:24 Page 194 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL ST IFRS FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the parent company accounts investments recognised in the profit and loss account, as the 1.
Accounting policies investments are revalued.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the rates at which it is expected that the tax will arise, and discounted to take 1.1 Basis of preparation into account the likely timing of payments and pattern of expected Friends Provident plc the Company is a limited liability company, realisation of investments.
Deferred taxation is recognised in the incorporated in the UK, whose shares are publicly traded.
profit and loss account for the period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with statement of total recognised gains and losses.
applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investments as set out 1.2.
3 Valuation of investments in note 1.2.
Investments are shown in the balance sheet as follows: i Unlisted investments are valued by the directors, having regard The Company has continued to present individual financial to their likely realisable value.
statements prepared on a UK Generally Accepted Accounting ii Listed and other quoted investments, including those in Practice basis as permitted by section 226 A and Schedule 4 to the participating interests, are carried at bid value at the balance Companies Act 1985 and has adopted the exemption of omitting the sheet date.
profit and loss account as permitted by section 230 of that Act.
iii Shares in Group undertakings are stated at current value.
Revaluation gains, and their reversal, and temporary diminutions All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in in value are recognised as a transfer to the revaluation reserve.
accordance with Financial Reporting Standards.
Revaluation losses and their reversal, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
FRS29 IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was effective from 1 January 2007.
The Company is exempt from the standard as 1.2.
4 Share based payments the disclosures are contained within the notes to the Group The Company operates share based payment schemes for consolidated financial statements.
employees of the Group, depending on eligibility.
The fair value of these equity-settled share based payments is measured at the In accordance with FRS1, the Company is exempt from the grant date, and the cost is borne by the subsidiary companies.
requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that The fair value is added to the cost of the Companys investments this is provided in its consolidated financial statements.
in its subsidiary undertakings and a corresponding credit is made to reserves.
1 Investment return Investment return excludes revaluation of Group investments, and Borrowings are recognised initially at cost, being the fair value of includes dividends, interest, rents, gains and losses on the realisation the consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred, and of assets and unrealised gains and losses.
Such income includes any subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the withholding tax but excludes other tax credits, such as attributable proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is tax credits.
Income from fixed-interest securities together with recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the interest, rents, and associated expenses are accounted for in the borrowings, using the effective interest method.
period in which they accrue.
Dividends are included in the profit and loss account when the securities are listed as ex-dividend.
Realised Convertible notes that can be converted to share capital at the gains or losses on investments are calculated as the difference option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not between the net sale proceeds and original cost.
Unrealised gains vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound and losses on investments represent the difference between the financial instruments.
Compound financial instruments are split and valuation of investments at the balance sheet date and their original recorded respectively within each of its two components, equity and cost, or if they have been previously revalued, the valuation at the liability.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a compound last balance sheet date.
The movement in unrealised gains and financial instrument are also allocated to the equity and liability losses recognised in the period also includes the reversal of components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The equity unrealised gains and losses recognised in earlier accounting periods components of the convertible notes are calculated as the excess of in respect of disposals in the current period.
the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest 1.2.
2 Taxation applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The equity component is recognised and included in shareholders Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined equity, net of tax effects.
The fair value of the liability component is in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, the movement in recorded on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on deferred tax and adjustments to prior periods tax.
Provision is made conversion or maturity of the bonds.
for deferred taxation liabilities, using the liability method, on all material timing differences, including revaluation gains and losses on 194 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007
