FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 79 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts IFRS 2 Share based payment amendments effective 1 January 2009 1.
Accounting policies IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised effective 1 July 2009 1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in IAS 23 Borrowing costs amendments effective 1 January 2009 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated of financial statements puttable financial instruments and obligations financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost arising on liquidation effective 1 January 2009. convention, as modified by the revaluation of property, investment properties, cash settled share based payment schemes and financial IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset minimum instruments at fair value through the income statement.
The funding requirements and their interaction effective 1 January 2008. financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers The above standards and interpretations once implemented will not in December 2005 as amended in December 2006 in so far as materially impact the results of the Group.
these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
1.2 Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and amendments to The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures, estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported were effective from 1 January 2007 and have been adopted in the amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance year.
The objective of IFRS 7 is to enable users to understand the sheet date, as well as affecting the reported income and expenses nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments.
Although the estimates are based on managements amendments to IAS 1 provide users with information on what the best knowledge and judgement of information and financial data as Group manages as capital and how its objectives for managing at the date the financial statements are approved, the actual capital are met, and has no effect on the primary statements.
outcome may differ from these estimates.
Further information on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements is set out in note 2.
The Group presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity.
Where applicable, for each asset and liability line item that combines 1.3 Summary of significant accounting policies amounts expected to be recovered or settled both within and beyond 12 months after the balance sheet date, disclosure of the amount The principal accounting policies set out below have been due beyond 12 months is made in the respective line item note.
consistently applied to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are not offset, unless there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and 1.3.
1 Business combinations there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by an assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to accounting standard or interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the the business combination.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities accounting policies of the Group.
and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the business combination The parent company has continued to present individual financial date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as exemption of omitting the profit and loss account and related notes goodwill.
If the cost of the business combination is less than the fair conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The parent company financial value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised statements, with its respective accounting policies, are presented directly in the income statement.
on pages 193 to 197. a Subsidiaries The Group has not early adopted a number of new standards, Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power, interpretations and amendments to existing standards, which directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies are not mandatory for 2007 as follows: so as to obtain economic benefits, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Potential IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are also taken into account.
IFRS 8 introduces new requirements for reporting segment information.
It requires information to be reported on the basis of separate internal financial information used by the Group to evaluate operating performance of each segment.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 79 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 80 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Once a policyholder contract has been classified as an insurance 1.
Accounting policies continued contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this Open ended investment companies and unit trusts in which the period.
As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant Group has a percentage holding in excess of 50% are consolidated insurance risk the possibility of having to pay benefits on the as special purpose vehicles under SIC12 the Group obtains the occurrence of an insured event that is more than 5% greater than majority of the benefits, and controls these vehicles as an the benefits payable if the insured event did not occur.
The units not owned by the Group are treated as a liability called net asset value attributable to unit holders.
b Investment contracts Policyholder contracts not considered insurance contracts under The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, IFRS 4 are classified as investment contracts.
Contracts classified liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its as investment contracts are either unit-linked or contracts with subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the Discretionary Participation Features DPF.
These are mainly period are included in the consolidated results from the date of unitised with-profits contracts.
20 on page 85 for the acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group balances and definition of DPF.
income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
c Options and guarantees Options and guarantees are valued separately unless the option or Profits or losses arising from changes in holdings in subsidiaries guarantee itself meets the definition of an insurance contract, or it that do not impact the Groups control over that subsidiary are is a policyholder option to surrender an insurance contract for a recognised directly in equity.
b Associates and joint ventures For options and guarantees separated from the host contract, the Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant Group measures them at fair value and includes the change in fair influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, value in the income statement on the same basis as for its other generally arising from holding between 20% and 50% of the voting embedded derivatives.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
3 Segment reporting Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Management reviews the Groups operations on the basis of its key or business segments.
These are groups of assets or operations that Joint ventures are those entities where the terms of the contractual provide products or services that are different in terms of risks and agreement ensure that the parties involved jointly control the entity, returns to those of other business segments.
The Group therefore notwithstanding that the Groups share of the underlying assets and reports its primary segment information using business segments.
liabilities may be more than 50%.
The Group recognises its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Secondary segment information is reported using geographical segments.
A geographical segment provides products or services Under the equity method, an investment is included as a single line within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and item in the consolidated balance sheet as the Groups share of the returns that are different to those of other geographical segments.
fair value of the investee undertakings net assets plus goodwill, which equates to the cost of the investment plus the Groups share Further details of the segments selected by the Group are included of post-acquisition reserves.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or in note 3. losses is presented as a single line item in the consolidated income statement, adjusted for the effect of any fair value adjustments.
4 Foreign currency translation a Foreign currency transactions 1.3.
2 Product classification Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to sterling the a Insurance contracts functional currency of the Group at the foreign exchange rates Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities from another party the policyholder, by agreeing to compensate denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event the insured translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance event adversely affects the policyholder, are classified as insurance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the contracts.
Under IFRS 4, insurance risk is risk other than financial income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at risk.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the more of: a specified interest rate, security price, commodity price, exchange rate at the date of the transaction and are not foreign exchange rate, index of price or rates, a credit rating or credit subsequently restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated index or other variable.
Insurance contracts may transfer some at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the rate on the financial risk.
date the fair value was determined.
When a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that gain or loss is recognised directly in equity.
80 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 81 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of 1.
Accounting policies continued the fee can be estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or Conversely, when a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is where there is a period of less than six months remaining to the end recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of of the performance period, and there is evidence at the reporting date that gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
exchange adjustments recognised in equity are reported in the Groups foreign currency translation reserve within retained earnings c Investment income and reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
All income received from investments is recognised in the income statement and includes dividends, interest, rental income, and the b Overseas subsidiaries movement in financial assets and investment properties, at fair The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill value through the income statement.
and intangible assets attributable to the acquisition of the overseas subsidiary, and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are Dividend income from listed and unlisted securities is recognised as translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance revenue when the right to receive payment is established.
The revenues and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are securities this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
translated to sterling at average foreign exchange rates for the year.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation to sterling taking into account the effective yield of the asset or an applicable are classified as equity movements and recognised in the Groups floating rate.
Interest income includes the amortisation of any foreign currency translation reserve and reported in the statement of discount or premium.
These exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the Rental income from investment properties under operating leases is overseas subsidiary is disposed of.
recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the 1.3.
5 Revenue recognition income statement as an integral part of the total lease income.
a Premiums Premium income in respect of single premium business, new Determination of gains and losses and the movement in financial generation group pensions business and pensions business not assets and investment properties at fair value through the income subject to contractual regular premiums, is accounted for when the statement are explained in their respective accounting policies.
6 Expense recognition For all other classes of business, premium income is accounted for a Claims and benefits paid in the year in which it falls due.
Insurance claims reflect the cost of all claims incurred during the year, including claims handling costs.
Death claims and surrenders b Fee and commission income and income from service activities are recognised on the basis of notifications received.
Maturities and Investment contract policyholders are charged for policy annuity payments are recorded when due.
Claims and benefits administration services, investment management services and for recorded are accrued to the policyholder and included within surrenders.
Investment management services comprise primarily insurance and investment contracts liabilities.
fees and charges from unit-linked investment contracts issued by the Life & Pensions business.
Fees earned by the Asset Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred Management business relate to the sale and management of retail in connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
investment products and from managing investments in the Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims department institutional market.
and any general administrative costs directly attributable to the claims function.
These fees and charges are recognised as revenue in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Front-end fees are charged at the inception of the contract.
The consideration received is deferred as a liability and recognised over b Finance costs the expected term of the contract on a straight-line basis.
The interest expense, recognised in the income statement under finance costs, is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Regular fees charged to the policyholder periodically monthly, Interest accrued on variable rate interest bearing loans and quarterly or annually, are recognised on a straight-line basis over the borrowings is recognised under insurance payables, other payables period in which the service is rendered.
and deferred income and not in the carrying value of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
In respect of Asset Management a number of contracts have performance fees based on an agreed level of performance in a set Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 81 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 82 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued c Present value of acquired in-force business PVIF 1.
Accounting policies continued On acquisition of a portfolio of insurance contracts or investment contracts, either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary c Operating lease payments undertaking, the net present value of the Groups interest in the Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the expected pre-tax cash flows of the in-force business is capitalised in income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
This is amortised over the Lease incentives paid are recognised in the income statement over anticipated lives of the related contracts which typically vary the period of the lease.
d Investment properties related expenses d Other intangible assets Expenses with regards to investment properties are treated as Customer relationships, distribution lists, brands and licences administrative expenses and are recognised when incurred.
acquired are capitalised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid.
Software is capitalised on the basis of the costs 1.3.
7 Impairment incurred to acquire and to bring into use.
Direct costs of internally Assets, other than investment property and financial assets at fair generated software are capitalised as intangible assets.
value through the income statement, are reviewed at each reporting date to assess whether there are any circumstances that might Other intangible assets have finite useful lives and are carried at indicate that they are impaired.
If such circumstances exist, cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation is impairment testing is performed and any resulting impairment calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over losses are charged to the income statement.
The carrying value the estimated useful lives of the intangible asset as follows: is adjusted to the recoverable amount.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in Years circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Customer relationships 312 Distribution lists 715 Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of Brands 1012 the asset, or in respect of goodwill, the cash generating unit to Licences 35 which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher Software 3 of: the assets fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
Subsequent expenditure on other intangible assets is capitalised Each cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated represents only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is for internal management purposes and is not larger than any of the expensed as incurred.
Groups primary or secondary segments used for segmental reporting.
8 Intangible assets a Owned assets a Goodwill Land and buildings are initially recognised at cost and subsequently Goodwill arising on business combinations is the future economic measured at fair value.
Revaluations are performed annually by benefit arising from assets that are not capable of being individually independent valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant identified and separately recognised.
professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and category of properties being valued.
Valuations are performed b Investment management contracts with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not Investment management contracts acquired separately are differ materially from that which would be determined using fair measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of investment values at the balance sheet date.
The fair value is the amount for management acquired in a business combination is the fair value which a property could be exchanged between knowledgeable and as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, contracts willing parties in an arms length transaction.
are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of investment Properties occupied by the Group are held at fair value on the management contracts are finite and are amortised as the revenue basis of open market value at the date of revaluation.
Revaluation on those contracts is earned, which equates to a straight line basis surpluses are credited to the revaluation surplus in shareholders over the estimated average contract term, depending on the nature equity.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same of the contract, with amortisation being charged to the income asset are charged against the revaluation surplus directly to equity: statement.
The amortisation period is reviewed at each financial all other decreases are charged to the income statement.
The estimated useful lives have been assessed as follows: Equipment is recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and Years impairment losses.
Investment trusts 10 Insurance 10 Institutional 4 Retail 10 82 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:09 Page 83 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1.
12 Financial assets b Depreciation The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of an asset net of fair value through the income statement or loans.
The classification the estimated residual value, using the straight-line method, over the depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired estimated useful life of each part of an item of property and or originated.
equipment, as follows: Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date Years the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Motor vehicles 34 Computer hardware and related software 14 A financial asset is derecognised when and only when the Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 310 contractual right to receive cash flows expires or when the asset, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each financial year has been transferred.
end and adjusted if appropriate.
a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement c Disposal and derecognition All financial assets at fair value through the income statement, with An item of property and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or the exception of derivative financial instruments are designated on when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in fair value through the income statement as they are held for trading.
the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
Financial assets are designated upon initial recognition at fair value Any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being through the income statement as they are managed individually or disposed of or no longer in use is transferred to retained earnings.
together on a fair value basis.
10 Investment properties All financial assets at fair value through the income statement are measured at fair value.
The fair value on initial recognition is Investment properties comprise land and or buildings that are not generally the consideration given, excluding any transaction costs occupied by the Group and are held either to earn rental income or directly attributable to their acquisition.
Movements in fair value are for capital appreciation, or for both.
taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
In accordance with IAS 17 Leases, properties held by the Group b Loans under operating leases are classified as investment properties when Loans are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that the properties otherwise meet the definition of investment properties.
are not quoted in an active market.
Loans are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration given plus Investment property is initially included in the balance sheet at cost incremental costs that are incurred on the acquisition of the and subsequently measured at its fair value, which is supported by investment.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans are measured market evidence, based on annual valuations by independent valuers at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and category of investment The amortised cost is the present value of estimated future cash property being valued.
Movements in the fair value of investment flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
properties are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
11 Fair values of financial instruments For both insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, Fair values of listed financial instruments are based on quoted bid acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from values for assets and offer price for liabilities at the close of business writing the contracts, which are incurred during a financial period.
on the balance sheet date.
For unlisted financial instruments, broker Costs are deferred where their recovery has not been reflected in or dealer price quotations or published bid values are obtained.
If the valuation of policyholder liabilities, but only to the extent that prices are not readily available, the fair value is based on valuation they are recoverable out of future margins.
Certain financial instruments, including financial derivative instruments, are valued using pricing models that consider, The rate of amortisation of deferred acquisition costs on such among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlation, time contracts is proportional to the future margins emerging in respect value of money, credit risk, yield curve volatility factors and or of the related policies, over the lifetime of those policies.
prepayment rates of the underlying positions.
Alternatively, discounted cash flow techniques are used.
Estimated future cash For investment contracts without DPF, and for Asset Management flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount service contracts, deferred acquisition costs comprise all rate used is a market related rate for a similar instrument.
incremental costs that are directly related to the writing of the contract, which are incurred during a financial period and are Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 83 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 1 4 08 21:10 Page 84 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1.
16 Insurance and other receivables Insurance and other receivables are recognised when due and deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of future measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the amount margins.
Such deferred acquisition costs are amortised on a receivable plus incremental costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, straight-line basis over the lifetime of the contract.
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
17 Cash and cash equivalents Amounts due to and from reinsurers are accounted for in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.
Premiums ceded Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call and claims reimbursed are individually presented on a gross basis.
with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdraft facilities.
Contracts that do not give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer are considered financial reinsurance and are accounted 1.3.
18 Financial liabilities for and disclosed in a manner consistent with financial instruments.
The Group classifies financial liabilities as either financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement or financial liabilities carried 1.3.
Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement, such as investment contracts, are designated on initial a Current tax recognition when one of the following criteria is satisfied: The tax expense represents the sum of current year corporation tax,  It eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch the movement in deferred tax and adjustments to prior periods tax.
caused by financial assets and financial liabilities being measured on a different basis.
Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined  The financial liability contains or may contain an embedded in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with derivative.
adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
Tax payable is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by A financial liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group the balance sheet date.
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a financial instrument.
The tax charge is analysed between tax in respect of income and A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when, the investment return on the policyholders interest in the with-profits obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
and linked fund assets, representing policyholders tax, with the balance being tax on equity holders investment return and profits, 1.3.
19 Insurance contracts representing shareholders tax.
Insurance contract liabilities are determined separately for each life operation following an annual investigation of the long-term funds at b Deferred tax 31 December.
For UK operations the liabilities are calculated in Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on accordance with the relevant Financial Services Authority FSA rules temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and contained in the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
For overseas liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis operations, insurance contract liabilities are calculated on recognised used in the computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using actuarial principles, based on local regulatory requirements.
The the balance sheet liability method and the amount of deferred tax valuations are subject to adjustments to reflect relevant accounting provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or requirements as set out below.
settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities.
The tax rates used are the rates that have been enacted or For the conventional with-profits business in Friends Provident Life & substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Pensions Limited FPLP, the liabilities to policyholders include both declared and constructive obligations for future bonuses not yet Deferred taxation is recognised in the income statement for the declared excluding the shareholders share of future bonuses and period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss include the cost of options and guarantees measured on a market that is recognised directly in equity.
In this case the gain or loss is consistent basis.
The basis of valuation does not recognise deferred shown net of the attributable deferred tax.
Deferred tax liabilities are acquisition costs, but allows for future profits of non-profit and unitrecognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax linked business written in the With-Profits Fund to be recognised.
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable future profits will be available against which deductible temporary The calculation of the liabilities to policyholders in respect of differences can be utilised.
Any deferred tax assets not recognised conventional with-profits contracts in Friends Provident Life are separately disclosed.
Assurance Limited FPLA includes an implicit provision for future regular bonuses, but not final bonuses, by means of a reduction in The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each the valuation interest rate and an assessment of options and balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer guarantees on a deterministic basis.
probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
84 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 85 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1.
21 Fund for future appropriations FFA The FFA comprises all funds available for allocation, either to The calculation of liabilities to policyholders for non-profit contracts policyholders or to shareholders, the allocation of which has not includes explicit allowance for future expenses and allows for lapses been determined at the balance sheet date.
Within FPLP, the insurance and investment contracts liabilities allow The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain for discretionary benefit allocations to the extent that they are insurance contract liabilities, which are supported by owner allowed within current bonus practices.
The FFA represents working occupied properties, on which unrealised gains and losses are capital and the value of future transfers to shareholders from the recognised within equity.
Adjustments are made to the insurance With-Profits Fund in respect of discretionary bonuses for contract provisions to reflect the movements that would have arisen conventional with-profits business.
if the unrealised gains and losses had been recognised in the income statement.
The corresponding change in the value of these Within FPLA, the FFA represents the value of future regular and final balances is also recognised in equity.
The Group carries out an annual liability adequacy test on its insurance 1.3.
22 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings contract liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and other related intangible assets to ensure that the carrying amount of its Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is generally liabilities is sufficient in the light of estimated future cash flows.
the cash consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred, Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is 1.3.
20 Investment contracts recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest rate method.
Investment contracts are either unit-linked or contracts with DPF mainly unitised with-profits contracts.
Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not A unit-linked investment contract is recognised at fair value through vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound the income statement.
The fair value is calculated as the number of financial instruments.
Compound financial instruments are split and units allocated to policyholders in each of the unit-linked funds the equity and liability components recorded separately.
The equity multiplied by the unit price of those funds at the balance sheet date.
component of the convertible bonds is calculated on issue as the The fund assets and liabilities used to determine the unit prices at excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future the balance sheet date are valued on a basis that is consistent with interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of their measurement basis in the consolidated Group balance sheet, interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion adjusted to take account of the effect on the liabilities of discounting option.
The equity component is recognised and included in for the time value of future tax on unrealised gains on assets held in shareholders equity, net of tax effects.
The liability component is the fund.
Provision is made for renewal commissions at the recorded on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on inception of an investment contract as intermediaries are not conversion or maturity of the bonds.
required to perform any service once the policy is incepted.
23 Provisions A contract with DPF is a contractual right held by a policyholder to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments, A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or additional payments: constructive obligation, as a result of a past event, which is likely to  that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual result in an outflow of resources and where a reliable estimate of payments, and the amount of the obligation can be made.
If the effect is material,  whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash the issuer and that are contractually based on: flows at a pre-tax risk free rate and, where appropriate, the risks the performance of a specified pool of contracts, or a specific to the liability.
specified type of contract, or realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the pool of assets held by the issuer, or expected benefits to be derived from the contracts are less than the the profit or loss of the company that issues the contracts.
Investment contracts with DPF held within the FPLP and FPLA 1.3.
24 Insurance payables, other payables and with-profits funds which are mainly unitised with-profits contracts deferred income are measured on a basis that is consistent with a measurement Insurance and other payables are recognised when due and basis for insurance contracts held within those funds.
measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration paid.
Subsequent to initial recognition, payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 85
