qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 8 SUMMARY REVIEW OF THE YEAR Summary and Outlook TRADING Our UK trading focus therefore centres around our established Our 2007 trading and financial results are in line with those strengths in group pensions and protection business.
The reported at the end of January 2008, underlining the rationale improved cash flows anticipated will support investment in for our full strategic review and the appropriateness of our FPI, our strategy being to grow the international business new strategic direction.
The new strategy is further supported faster than the UK.
FPI will pursue growth in savings & by positive developments in our core businesses.
investment, pensions and protection markets with attractive margins, and this is the trading priority of the Group.
The new Annual Premium Equivalent APE sales increased 15% in the strategy includes reducing the cost base by at least 40m UK and 18% overseas, delivering an overall increase of 16%.
Advances in the UK were driven by our strong position in pensions.
Overseas, Friends Provident International FPI in Once fully implemented, the new strategy is expected to add particular delivered another strong performance, further two percentage points to the overall IRR, with the prospect cementing its position as an effective engine for growth.
of further improvement over time.
The Group will be selffinancing and therefore does not expect any need to access The underlying economics of our 2007 UK trading were not the capital markets.
In particular the cash generated from sales, before one-off adjustments, was less than the cost of The three businesses that now fit less comfortably within shareholder dividends, as was ongoing underlying IFRS the new strategy Lombard, F&C Asset Management and profits, again before one-off items.
Pantheon Financial continue to develop successfully.
We are working with their respective management teams to These results reflect that our product persistency experience establish strategies for maximising shareholder value while was worse than was being assumed, particularly for UK minimising disruption to these good businesses.
business, and the consequent assumption change reduced EEV profit by 158m overall.
Included within this result is an Swift and efficient implementation of the new strategy is adverse impact of 15m on the contribution from UK new now our focus to ensure that the inherent benefits will business, which ended down 11% on 2006 levels despite emerge as soon as practicable and an update on progress the higher levels of sales.
The overall UK internal rate of can be expected at the time of interim results in August 2008. return IRR at 11.7% was helped by regulatory changes In the meantime, we can report that a senior team is in place but remains at an unsatisfactory level.
solely to oversee implementation and good progress is already being made.
NEW STRATEGY The new strategy was announced at the end of January IMPACT OF ONE-OFF CHANGES AND this year.
Since then, our conversations with management DISCLOSURE at leading UK intermediary firms have been encouraging, An important element of the new strategy is the adoption of with widespread support for our focus on protection and improved financial transparency and disclosure, including the pensions, and broad support for our market positioning.
segmentation of Life & Pensions underlying profit, and The strength of our underlying propositions remains an analyses provided by product on both cash and IFRS bases.
Some associated decisions have had the effect of further The new strategy is designed to address the poor underlying reducing 2007 profits.
In particular, the capitalisation of 20m economics of trading outlined above by elevating profit above of development expenses, reclassified as maintenance volume growth.
Its most direct impact is to reduce the capital expenses, reduces IFRS profits by 112m and EEV profits intensity of the UK business, which will be achieved primarily by 238m.
A further 68m reduction in EEV profits arises by ceasing to write new group pension schemes where from capitalising corporate costs.
initial commission is required, and by no longer pursuing an The writing off of intangibles, especially in connection with ambition in wealth management beyond the manufacture our withdrawal from Wrap, reduces both EEV and IFRS and administration of life and pensions products.
Implementation of the remaining consumption will be reduced further by adopting a more changes arising from the FSA Policy Statement PS06 14 selective approach to individual pensions and to savings & led to a 138m release of shareholder cash.
investment products, competing only when the prospective returns make it worth doing so.
qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 9 After a review of the estimated amortisation profile of CONCLUSION deferred acquisition costs on protection business the net Our core propositions are already strong and continue to be impact on IFRS profit was negative 34m.
Our belief in, and commitment to, the intermediary community remains at the heart of our Largely as a result of the reserving changes, the overall IRR strategy and we look forward to deepening our already strong for 2007 is 14.4% and this, together with other key metrics, relationships.
The international markets will become the key is likely to fall back initially as some of the key financial drivers of profitable growth.
Quality customer service and aspects of the strategic review are implemented.
our ability to harness technology imaginatively provide competitive advantage.
The outcome of the strategic review The 2007 underlying profit on an EEV basis is in line with our has repositioned Friends Provident positively and our focus is announcement of 31 January 2008 and the underlying profit now firmly on growing the business both transparently and on an IFRS basis is also down, due to the same factors.
profitably, to the benefit of all key stakeholders.
DIVIDEND The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2007 of 5.30 pence per share in line with our current dividend policy.
This would bring the total 2007 dividend to 8.00 pence per share, a 2% increase over 2006.
After payment of the final dividend for 2007, we will reduce the overall cost of the dividend to a level that reflects the dividend paying capacity of the Life & Pensions business, expected to be around 90m to 100m, and adopt a policy of growing the dividend in line with operating cashflow in future.
The Board believes that this offers the prospect of dividend growth in real terms in the years to come.
The Board will determine the appropriate dividend per share in due course.
In reaching this decision, the Board will have regard not only to the dividend paying capacity of the business but also to any capital returned to shareholders as a result of releases from businesses which do not fit the strategy.
OUTLOOK Our new strategy plays to our strengths.
Our systems, service and efficiency enable us to compete in the challenging UK marketplace.
In protection, we will seek to at least maintain market share and to continue to enter new segments.
Overall volumes of new pensions business will fall as a consequence of our more selective approach, but the quality of new business written will increase.
The outlook for International Life & Pensions business remains strong.
FPI will benefit from its growing presence in key markets and continued strong demand for its products.
We have established firm footholds in a number of territories from which to generate future sales, further supported by our new operations in Singapore, Germany and United Arab Emirates.
International markets will remain competitive but developing FPI is a priority of the new strategy and we are confident that the outlook for this business remains positive.
