FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 173 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the European Embedded Value basis As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the supplementary information directors responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
The directors of Friends Provident plc have chosen to prepare Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in relation to the supplementary information in accordance with the European supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance the EEV Principles, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on and the terms of our engagement.
European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the require the directors to prepare supplementary information in Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information accordance with the Embedded Value Methodology EVM has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any nonusing the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 177 to compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the directors have:  prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the Basis of audit opinion EEV Principles: We conducted our audit having regard to International Standards on  identified and described the business covered by the EVM: Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
 applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant  determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and external data, and then applied them consistently: judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the  made estimates that are reasonable and consistent: supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies  described the basis on which business that is not covered applied in the preparation of the supplementary information are business has been included in the supplementary information, appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and including any material departures from the accounting framework adequately disclosed.
applicable to the Group financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Independent Auditors report to Friends Provident order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable plc on the European Embedded Value basis assurance that the supplementary information is free from material supplementary information misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Independent Auditors report the presentation of the supplementary information.
We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Friends Provident plc on pages Opinion 174 to 192 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007.
The In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the year supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with ended 31 December 2007 has been properly prepared in accordance the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on out on pages 177 to 179.
European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles using the methodology and KPMG Audit Plc assumptions set out on pages 177 to 179.
The supplementary Chartered Accountants information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial London statements which are on pages 74 to 172.
18 March 2008 This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 173
