FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:22 Page 79 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts IFRS 2 Share based payment amendments effective 1 January 2009 1.
Accounting policies IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised effective 1 July 2009 1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in IAS 23 Borrowing costs amendments effective 1 January 2009 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated of financial statements puttable financial instruments and obligations financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost arising on liquidation effective 1 January 2009. convention, as modified by the revaluation of property, investment properties, cash settled share based payment schemes and financial IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset minimum instruments at fair value through the income statement.
The funding requirements and their interaction effective 1 January 2008. financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers The above standards and interpretations once implemented will not in December 2005 as amended in December 2006 in so far as materially impact the results of the Group.
these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
1.2 Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and amendments to The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures, estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported were effective from 1 January 2007 and have been adopted in the amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance year.
The objective of IFRS 7 is to enable users to understand the sheet date, as well as affecting the reported income and expenses nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments.
Although the estimates are based on managements amendments to IAS 1 provide users with information on what the best knowledge and judgement of information and financial data as Group manages as capital and how its objectives for managing at the date the financial statements are approved, the actual capital are met, and has no effect on the primary statements.
outcome may differ from these estimates.
Further information on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements is set out in note 2.
The Group presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity.
Where applicable, for each asset and liability line item that combines 1.3 Summary of significant accounting policies amounts expected to be recovered or settled both within and beyond 12 months after the balance sheet date, disclosure of the amount The principal accounting policies set out below have been due beyond 12 months is made in the respective line item note.
consistently applied to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are not offset, unless there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and 1.3.
1 Business combinations there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by an assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to accounting standard or interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the the business combination.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities accounting policies of the Group.
and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the business combination The parent company has continued to present individual financial date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as exemption of omitting the profit and loss account and related notes goodwill.
If the cost of the business combination is less than the fair conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The parent company financial value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised statements, with its respective accounting policies, are presented directly in the income statement.
on pages 193 to 197. a Subsidiaries The Group has not early adopted a number of new standards, Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power, interpretations and amendments to existing standards, which directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies are not mandatory for 2007 as follows: so as to obtain economic benefits, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Potential IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are also taken into account.
IFRS 8 introduces new requirements for reporting segment information.
It requires information to be reported on the basis of separate internal financial information used by the Group to evaluate operating performance of each segment.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 79
