FP AnnRep 074-200. qxd:30349 Backend 27 3 08 03:23 Page 177 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the EEV results The shareholders net worth includes the corporate debt of the Group.
Methodology This debt is valued at market value, consistent with the EEV guidance.
1.1 Basis of preparation EEV and other balance sheet items denominated in foreign The EEV results presented in this document have been prepared currencies have been translated to sterling using the appropriate in accordance with the European Insurers Chief Financial Officers closing exchange rate.
The new business contribution and other Forums EEV Principles issued in May 2004 and the Additional income statement items have been translated using an average Guidance issued in 2005.
They provide supplementary information exchange rate for the relevant period.
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
1.2 Covered business The EEV basis of reporting is designed to recognise profit as it is The covered business incorporates the Life & Pensions business earned over the term of the policy.
The total profit recognised over defined as long-term business by UK and overseas regulators.
the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
The Asset Management business, IFA distribution businesses and the Asset Hub are excluded from the definition of covered business.
The reported embedded value provides an estimate of the value For the purposes of segmentation the IFA distribution businesses of shareholders interest in the covered business, excluding any and the Asset Hub are included within UK Life & Pensions.
value that may be generated from future new business.
This value comprises the sum of the shareholders net worth, the provision 1.3 Allowance for risk for future corporate costs and the value of existing business.
The shareholders net worth is the net assets attributable to The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature shareholders, and is represented by the sum of required capital of the EEV Principles.
The EEV guidance sets out three main areas and free surplus.
The value of existing business is the present value available to allow for risk in an embedded value: of the projected stream of future distributable profits available to  the risk discount rate: shareholders from the existing business at the valuation date, on  the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: a best estimate basis allowing for risk, adjusted for the cost of  the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional holding required capital.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with The market-consistent approach has been used to allow for risk in the Groups IFRS results.
These contain information regarding the all three areas.
Groups financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted 1.4 Deriving risk discount rates for use in the EU.
A market-consistent embedded value has been calculated for each product line by valuing the cash flows in line with the prices of The results for covered business as reported under EEV principles similar cash flows traded on the open market.
are combined with the results for the remainder of the business reported in accordance with IFRS, except where EEV principles In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate dictate otherwise.
In particular the EEV principles have been applied consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital to reflect Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS as markets.
For example, an equity cash flow is valued using an equity debt rather than equity.
risk discount rate, and a bond cash flow is valued using a bond risk discount rate.
If a higher return is assumed for equities, the equity In addition, a pro forma embedded value is reported showing cash flow is discounted at this higher rate.
ordinary shareholders funds on an EEV basis adjusted to include the F&C listed subsidiary at market value.
In practice, for liabilities where the payouts are either independent or move linearly with market movements, a method known as the Shareholders net assets on an EEV basis for the Group consist of certainty equivalent approach has been applied whereby all the following: assumed assets earn the risk-free rate and all cash flows are  Life & Pensions net assets: discounted using the risk-free rate.
This gives the same result as  the Groups share of its investment in the Asset Management applying the method in the previous paragraph.
business including the net pension liability on an IFRS basis:  corporate net assets: A market-consistent cost of financial options and guarantees and a  the net pension asset of FPPS on an IAS 19 basis: market-consistent cost of holding required capital have also been  the provision for future corporate costs: calculated.
The cost of financial options and guarantees includes  the present value of future profits attributable to shareholders additional allowance for non-market risk within FPLPs With-Profits from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
An additional provision has been made for operational risks.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 177
