150 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the Group and parent Company financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps parent Company financial statements for each financial as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Directors parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group and parent Company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and present fairly the financial position of the Group and the integrity of the corporate and financial information included parent Company and the performance for that period: on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such the preparation and dissemination of financial statements financial statements that references in the relevant part of may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements For more information please visit www.
com 151 In this section you will nd: 152 Independent Auditors Report 153 Consolidated Income Statement 154 Consolidated Balance Sheet 156 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 156 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 158 Company Balance Sheet 158 Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 159 Company Cash Flow Statement 160 Notes to the Accounts 224 Shareholder Information
