160 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements Accounting Policies IFRS Not Yet Applied Financial Statements The following standards and interpretations have been adopted The financial statements of HBOS plc comprise the Consolidated by the European Union but are not effective for the year ended Income Statement and the Consolidated and Company Balance 31 December 2007 and have not been applied in preparing the Sheets, Cash Flow Statements and Statements of Recognised financial statements: Income and Expense together with the related Notes to the IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is applicable for periods Accounts.
The notes include information contained in the commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The application Business Review on pages 21 to 22, 29 to 30, 47, 49, 53, 56, of this standard in 2007 would not have had any financial 76, 77, 89 to 102 and 103 that are cross-referenced into the impact.
During 2008 the Group will be assessing the standard financial statements.
These disclosures are required under against its business model and the disclosures will be revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements relating to the accordingly in the 2009 financial statements.
management of capital and under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures relating to the IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions which is nature of risks and their management.
These disclosures form effective for periods commencing on or after 1 March 2007.
The an integral part of the financial statements and are prefaced as application of this interpretation in 2007 would not have affected such on the respective pages.
the Group consolidated financial statements because the interpretation deals with accounting for share-based payments Statement of Compliance at subsidiary level.
At Company level no material adjustment The financial statements have been prepared in accordance arises since these costs are already recharged.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting The following standards and interpretations have not yet been Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European adopted by the European Union, are not effective for the Union.
The Group has not utilised the carve-out provisions in year ended 31 December 2007 and have not been applied respect of full fair value and portfolio hedging of core deposits in in preparing the financial statements.
Where appropriate IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement disclosures will be revised in the financial statements in the year as adopted by the European Union and consequently, the in which the standard or interpretation becomes applicable.
financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The standards applied by the Group IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which is effective and Company are those endorsed by the European Union and for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The effective at the date the financial statements are approved by application of this revised standard in 2007 would not have had the Board.
any financial impact on the financial statements.
It will impact the presentation and format of the primary statements and The financial statements also comply with the relevant provisions notes and these disclosures will be revised accordingly in the of Part VII of the Companies Act 1985, as amended by the 2009 financial statements.
Companies Act 1985 International Accounting Standards and Other Accounting Amendments Regulations 2004.
Additionally Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs which is applicable to the Group has applied Financial Reporting Standard 27 Life borrowing costs related to qualifying assets for which the Assurance issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January as appropriate.
The application of this revised standard in 2007 would not have had a material impact on the financial statements.
Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements which is effective cost basis, except that the following assets and liabilities are for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2008.
The stated at their fair values: derivatives, financial instruments held application of this interpretation in 2007 would not have had a for trading, financial instruments designated at fair value through material impact on the financial statements.
the income statement, financial instruments classi ed as available for sale and investment properties.
In addition IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes which is effective for insurance contracts, investment contracts with discretionary periods commencing on or after 1 July 2008.
The application of participation features and value of in-force long term assurance this interpretation in 2007 would not have had a material impact business included in the insurance and investment business are on the financial statements.
prepared on the basis set out in the applicable accounting policy.
IFRIC 14 fide ned Bene t Assets and Minimum Funding IFRS Applied in 2007 Requirements which is effective for periods commencing on The following IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations or after 1 January 2008.
The application of this interpretation have been applied in 2007: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: in 2007 would not have affected the financial statements given Disclosures, the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of the financial position, funding pro le, maturity and rules of the Financial Statements on capital disclosure, IFRIC 7 Applying Groups fide ned bene t schemes.
the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperin ationary Economies, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 The following standards have been issued during 2008, have Share-based Payment, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded not been endorsed by the European Union, are not effective for Derivatives and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and the year ended 31 December 2007 and have not been applied Impairment.
There is no material financial impact arising in preparing the financial statements.
from the application of these standards and interpretations.
The financial statements have been updated to include new IFRS 2 Share-based Payments amendment on Vesting disclosures arising from these standards and interpretations.
Conditions and Cancellations which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 161 Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 and Revised which are taken to net investment income related to insurance IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 and investment business or when cash ow hedge accounting are effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. is employed.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Hedge accounting allows one financial instrument, generally and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable a derivative such as a swap, to be designated as a hedge of Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation are another financial instrument such as a loan or deposit or a effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. portfolio of the same.
At inception of the hedge relationship formal documentation is drawn up specifying the hedging The Group has been monitoring the progress of these revised strategy, the component transactions and the methodology that standards through the discussion papers and exposure drafts will be used to measure effectiveness.
issued and will assess their impact on the financial statements of the Group during 2008.
Monitoring of hedge effectiveness is undertaken continually.
A hedge is regarded as effective if the change in fair value or The accounting policies below have been consistently applied cash ows of the hedge instrument and the hedged item are to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Certain negatively correlated within a range of 80% to 125%, either for comparative amounts have been reclassi ed to conform to the the period since effectiveness was last tested or cumulatively current years presentation.
Basis of Consolidation The Group uses three hedge accounting methods.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Firstly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the change in the fair Groups interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
value of the hedging instrument against the change in the fair value of the hedged item in respect of the risk being hedged.
The financial statements of entities controlled by the Group are The hedged item is adjusted for the fair value of the risk being consolidated in the Group financial statements commencing hedged irrespective of its financial instrument classi cation.
on the date control is obtained until the date control ceases.
These changes in fair value are recognised in the income Control is fide ned as being where the Group has power, directly statement through net trading income.
Adjustments made to the or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies carrying amount of the hedged item for fair value hedges will be of such entities so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
amortised on an effective interest rate basis over the remaining In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently expected life in line with the presentation of the underlying are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
If the hedge is highly effective the net impact on assessing whether or not a special purpose entity SPE that the income statement is minimised.
has been sponsored by the Group should be consolidated or not, the Group considers the indicators of control that are Secondly, cash ow hedge accounting matches the cash included in the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC ows of hedged items against the corresponding cash ow of Interpretation 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities the hedging derivative.
The effective part of any gain or loss and if these are met the SPE is included in the consolidation.
on a hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity in the cash ow hedge reserve and the hedged item is accounted All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are for in accordance with the policy for that financial instrument.
Any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement through net Recognition and Derecognition of Financial Assets and trading income.
The amount deferred in reserves remains until Liabilities the designated transaction occurs at which time it is released The Group recognises loans and advances to customers and and accounted for in the income statement in line with the banks, deposits by banks, customer accounts, debt securities treatment of the hedged item.
Where the hedge relationship in issue, other borrowed funds and other financial assets and subsequently proves ineffective, or where the hedged item is liabilities upon origination.
settled early or is terminated, the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in reserves are reclassi ed to The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual the income statement through net trading income.
Where the rights to the cash ows from the asset expire or it transfers the hedging instrument expires or is terminated before the forecast right to receive the contractual cash ows on the financial asset transaction occurs, the associated gains and losses recognised in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of in reserves remain deferred until the forecast transaction occurs.
161 ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in the transferred financial asset that is created or retained by the Thirdly, hedging of net investments in foreign operations is Group is recognised as a separate asset.
discussed within the foreign currencies accounting policy.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual A derivative may be embedded in another financial obligations are discharged or cancelled or expire.
instrument, known as the host contract.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are not Derivatives closely related to those of the host contract, the embedded Derivatives are measured at fair value and initially recognised on derivative is separated from the host and held separately on the date the contract is entered into.
Where the fair value of a the balance sheet at fair value, except for those instruments derivative is positive, it is carried as a derivative asset and where that have been designated at fair value through the income negative as a derivative liability.
The gain or loss from changes statement, where the derivative is not separated from the host in fair value is taken to net trading income, except for interest instrument.
Changes in fair value are taken to the income from derivatives used for economic hedging purposes that do statement through net trading income, and the host contract not qualify for hedge accounting treatment which is taken to net is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that class of interest income, insurance and investment related derivatives financial instrument.
162 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued If quoted or market values are not available then derivative A write-off is made when all or part of a claim is deemed fair values are determined using valuation techniques that uncollectable or forgiven.
Write-offs are charged against are consistent with techniques commonly used by market previously established provisions for impairment or directly participants to price these instruments.
These techniques to the income statement.
include discounted cash ow analysis and other pricing In circumstances where an asset has been individually assessed models.
The fair values calculated from these models are for impairment and no objective evidence of impairment exists, regularly compared with prices obtained in actual market then it will be subject to a collective assessment.
In all material instances these techniques use only observable market data.
Collective impairment is identi ed for groups of assets that share similar risk characteristics.
Collective impairment is assessed Loans and Advances using a methodology based on existing risk conditions or events Loans and advances held for trading principally consist of that have a strong correlation with a tendency to default.
reverse repurchase agreements, are carried at fair value and are classi ed as financial assets held for trading.
Gains, losses and Loans and advances that are subject to collective impairment related income are taken to net trading income as they arise.
provisioning are deemed to be impaired loans where interest or capital payments are past due by more than three months.
All other loans and advances are classi ed as loans and receivables.
They are initially recognised at the draw Loans and advances that are past due or impaired may have down date at the fair value on the commitment date plus the terms and conditions renegotiated.
Loans and advances directly attributable incremental transaction costs.
They are are classi ed as renegotiated if they ful ll the fide nition of a subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective troubled debt restructuring.
When the renegotiated contract interest method less provision for impairment.
becomes effective, the loan is subsequently classi ed as past due, impaired or neither past due nor impaired according to The fair value of loans and advances to customers is measured its performance under the renegotiated terms.
at the commitment date and calculated by discounting anticipated cash ows, including interest, at a current Loans and advances to customers include advances that market rate of interest.
The fair value of oating rate loans are subject to non-returnable finance arrangements following and advances and overnight deposits is considered by the securitisation of portfolios of mortgages and other advances.
Group to be equal to the carrying value as these loans and The principal bene ts of these advances are acquired by special advances are accounted for at current interest rates and purpose securitisation entities that fund their purchase primarily credit risk is assessed in the impairment review.
The fair value through the issue of debt securities in issue.
of xed interest bearing accounts is based on cash ows discounted using current money market interest rates for Syndications debts with similar maturity and credit risk characteristics.
Syndication activity is undertaken as part of the Groups credit risk management strategy.
The Group considers that loan Loans and advances that are performing in accordance commitments and subsequent draw down form one contract.
with the underlying contract are classi ed as neither past The loan is recognised at the date of the draw down and initial due nor impaired.
If a customer fails to make a payment fair value is measured at the commitment date.
Loans pending that is contractually due the loan is classi ed as past due.
syndication are classi ed as loans and receivables and If subsequently all contractually due payments are made derecognised upon sell down when the risks and rewards are the loan reverts to its neither past due nor impaired status.
The Group assesses impairment individually for financial assets Finance Leases and Operating Leases that are signi cant and individually or collectively for assets that Assets leased to customers that transfer substantially all the are not signi cant.
The estimation involved in these impairment risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the customer are assessments is considered a critical accounting estimate.
classi ed as finance leases.
Together with instalment credit agreements, they are recorded at an amount equal to the net Individual impairment is identi ed at a counterparty speci c level investment in the lease, less any provisions for impairment, following objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
within loans and advances to customers.
This may be after an interest or principal payment is missed, when a banking covenant is breached or when the counterparty The difference between the gross receivable and the present is experiencing signi cant financial dif culties including cash value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance ow problems.
Objective evidence may also arise from wider income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease economic and financial market indicators including factors that using the net investment method, which re ects a constant pertain to a particular industry sector or local economy.
The periodic rate of return on the net investment.
present value of estimated cash ows recoverable is determined after taking into account any security held.
The amount of any All other assets leased to customers are classi ed as operating impairment is calculated by comparing the present value of the leases.
These assets are separately disclosed in the balance cash ows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate sheet and are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation, with the carrying value.
If impaired, the carrying value is adjusted which is calculated on a straight-line basis.
Operating lease and the difference charged to the income statement.
rentals are recognised in operating income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Operating lease assets are reviewed The written down value of the impaired loan is compounded for impairment when there is an indication of impairment.
back to the net realisable balance over time using the original effective interest rate.
This is reported through interest income Investment Securities in the income statement and represents the unwinding of Investment securities held for trading are classi ed as financial the discount.
assets held for trading and are carried at fair value.
Gains, losses and related income are taken to net trading income as Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 163 they arise.
Investment securities designated at fair value through Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant the income statement are carried at fair value.
Gains, losses in uence, but not control over the financial and operating and related income are taken to other operating income as policies.
Signi cant in uence is the power to participate in the they arise, except for those related to insurance and investment financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but is not business which are taken to net investment income related to control over those policies.
The attributable shares of results of associates and jointly Debt securities other than those held for trading or designated controlled entities, generally based on audited accounts, at fair value and for which there is no active market at inception are included in the consolidated financial statements using are classi ed as loans and receivables.
They are initially the equity method of accounting.
The share of any losses is recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental restricted to a level that re ects an obligation to fund such transaction costs and are subsequently carried on the balance losses.
sheet at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method Goodwill less provision for impairment.
The excess of the cost of a business combination over the All other investment securities are classi ed as available for interest in the net fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities sale.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus directly and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition of a business related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently is capitalised as goodwill.
The goodwill is allocated to the carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
Unrealised gains or cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that losses arise from changes in the fair values and are recognised are expected to bene t from the acquisitions concerned.
In directly in equity in the available for sale reserve, except for most cases, the cash-generating units represent the business impairment losses or foreign exchange gains or losses related acquired.
to debt securities, which are recognised immediately in the After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any income statement in impairment on investment securities or accumulated impairment losses.
Cash-generating units to which other operating income respectively.
Income on debt securities goodwill is allocated are subject to a semi-annual impairment is recognised on an effective interest rate basis and taken to review at 31 March and 30 September and whenever there is interest income through the income statement.
Income from an indication that the unit may be impaired, by comparing the equity shares is credited to other operating income, with income value in use with the carrying value.
When this indicates that on listed equity shares being credited on the ex-dividend date the carrying value of goodwill is not recoverable, it is irrevocably and income on unlisted equity shares being credited on an written down through the income statement by the amount of equivalent basis.
On sale or maturity, previously unrealised gains any impaired loss identi ed.
Further details of the calculation are and losses are recognised in other operating income.
given in the critical accounting estimates and in Note 19.
IFRS 3 Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are Business Combinations has not been applied retrospectively to not reversed through the income statement.
Any increase in business combinations that occurred before 1 January 2004. the fair value of an available for sale equity instrument after an Software impairment loss has been recognised is treated as a revaluation Costs associated with the development of software for internal and recognised directly in equity.
An impairment loss on an use, subject to fide minimis limits, are capitalised if the software available for sale debt instrument is reversed through the is technically feasible and the Group has both the intent and income statement, if there is evidence that the increase in fair suf cient resources to complete the development.
Costs are value is due to an event that occurred after the impairment loss only capitalised if the asset can be reliably measured and will was recognised.
generate future economic bene ts to the Group either through The fair value of investment securities trading in active markets sale or use.
is based on market prices or broker dealer valuations.
Where Only costs that are directly attributable to bringing the asset into quoted prices on instruments are not readily and regularly working condition for its intended use are capitalised.
These available from a recognised broker, dealer or pricing service, costs include all directly attributable costs necessary to create, or available prices do not represent regular transactions in the produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating market, the fair value is estimated.
These estimates use quoted in a manner intended by management.
Other development market prices for securities with similar credit, maturity and expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an yield characteristics or similar valuation models.
securities ABS not traded in an active market are valued using valuation models that include non-market observable inputs.
163 Capitalised development expenditure and purchased software These models use observed issuance prices, benchmarking is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment methodology and modelled market correlations.
Once the software is ready for use, the capitalised class within the portfolio, the implied spread arrived at by using costs are amortised over their expected lives, generally four this methodology is applied to the securities within that asset years.
Capitalised software is assessed for impairment where class.
Additional assessments are then made for possible there is an indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, deterioration in credit risk for each individual security.
the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income The Group uses settlement date accounting when recording the statement.
The amortisation charge for the asset is then purchase and sale of investment securities, with the exception adjusted to re ect the assets revised carrying amount.
of those held for trading for which trade date accounting is used.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it increases Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates the future economic bene ts embodied in the speci c asset to Jointly controlled entities are entities over which the Group has which it relates.
joint control under a contractual arrangement with other parties.
164 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued Purchased Value of In-Force Investment Contracts Disposal Group The Groups contractual rights to bene ts from providing Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are classi ed as held investment management services in relation to investment for sale where the carrying amount will be recovered principally contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio through a sale transaction as opposed to continuing use.
This transfers are measured at fair value at the time of acquisition.
applies where the assets and liabilities are available for sale The resulting asset is referred to as purchased value of inin their present condition, subject only to the terms that are force investment contracts PVIF and is amortised over the usual and customary for the sale of such assets and liabilities, estimated lives of the contracts on a systematic basis.
At each and when a sale is highly probable and expected to complete reporting date an assessment is made to determine if there within one year of being classi ed as a disposal group.
Disposal is any indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, the groups are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable value less costs to sell.
amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income Deposits by Banks and Customer Accounts statement.
The amortisation charge is then adjusted to re ect Deposits by banks and customer accounts held for trading are the revised carrying amount.
classi ed as financial liabilities held for trading and are carried Property and Equipment at fair value.
Gains, losses and related income are taken to net Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated trading income as they arise.
All other customer accounts and depreciation and impairment losses.
deposits by banks are held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold and leasehold property, other than freehold investment properties, is stated at The fair value of customer deposits with no stated maturity date cost and depreciated over fty years or the length of the lease is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value term if shorter.
Improvements to leasehold properties are stated of xed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings with at cost and are depreciated in equal instalments over the lesser no quoted market price is calculated using a cash ow model of the remaining life of the lease or eight years.
Premiums are discounted using interest rates for debts with similar maturities.
amortised over the period of the lease.
Repurchase Agreements The cost of equipment, which includes xtures and ttings, Debt securities sold subject to repurchase agreements are vehicles and computer hardware, less estimated residual value, retained within the balance sheet where the Group retains is written off in equal instalments over the expected lives of the substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Funds assets, generally between three and eight years.
received under these arrangements are included within deposits by banks, customer accounts or financial liabilities Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying held for trading.
Conversely, debt securities acquired under amount, only when it is probable that future economic bene ts commitments to resell are not recognised in the balance sheet associated with the item will ow to the Group and the cost of as debt securities where substantially all the risks and rewards the item can be measured reliably.
In this case, the purchase price is included within loans and advances to banks, loans and Property and equipment is assessed for impairment where advances to customers, or financial assets held for trading.
there is an indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, The difference between sale and repurchase prices for such the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable transactions is re ected in the income statement over the lives amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income of the transactions, within interest payable or interest receivable statement.
The depreciation charge for the asset is then as appropriate.
adjusted to re ect the assets revised carrying amount.
General Insurance Business Investment Properties The Group underwrites general insurance products.
For each Investment properties, which are fide ned as properties held general insurance policy underwritten, premiums net of refunds either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, are credited to net earned premiums on insurance contracts are initially recognised at cost and are fair valued annually.
over the period of risk coverage of the insurance policy.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in the fair value are recognised in the income statement in the period that they The cost of claims noti ed but not settled and claims incurred occur through other operating income, except for those relating but not reported at the balance sheet date are estimated to insurance and investment business, which are taken through and provided for.
Claims incurred comprise the settlement net investment income related to insurance and investment and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising business.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
from events occurring during the financial year together with adjustments to prior year claims provisions.
Estimates are Investments in Subsidiaries based upon an assessment of the likely costs taking account Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Companys of all known facts.
Where the outcome of outstanding cases is financial statements.
These comprise equity investments in, and unclear, statistical techniques are used which take into account capital contributions to subsidiary entities.
These are carried the cost of recent similar claim settlements.
at cost less impairment provisions.
At each reporting date an assessment is undertaken to determine if there is any indication Costs related to the acquisition of new insurance contracts of impairment.
This assessment can include reviewing factors including commissions paid to intermediaries and other related such as the solvency, pro tability and cash ows generated administration costs are capitalised as deferred acquisition by the subsidiary.
If there is an indication of impairment, an costs DAC and amortised on the same basis that premiums estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
If the carrying are recognised.
value exceeds the recoverable amount then a provision for impairment is made to reduce the carrying value to the recoverable amount.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 165 Where the expected value of claims and expenses attributable future bonuses is calculated by projecting the portfolio of withto unexpired risk periods exceed the value of unearned pro t business forward and applying reversionary and terminal premiums less DAC, at the balance sheet date, additional bonus rates so as to exhaust the projected assets attributable provisions are made for the anticipated losses.
The accounting policies set out above in respect of the Investment Contracts measurement of the insurance contract liabilities include The Groups investment contracts, which include collective liability adequacy testing that meets the requirements of IFRS 4 investment schemes, are primarily unit-linked.
are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the terms of the contracts as bene ts are linked to the Long Term Assurance Business Product Classi cation fair value of the assets supporting the contracts.
Accordingly, The Group has classi ed its long term assurance business in the investment contract liabilities have been designated at fair accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts as follows: value through the income statement with fair value changes recognised through change in investment contract liabilities.
Insurance contracts are contracts containing signi cant The fair value of the liabilities is estimated using a valuation insurance risk: technique.
In accordance with this technique the liability is established as the bid value of the assets held to match the Investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature liability, less an allowance in relation to deductions made to the DPF are contracts that do not contain signi cant insurance liability for capital gains tax on the gains relating to the matching risk but that contain discretionary participation features, which assets.
Deposits and withdrawals are accounted for directly are with-pro t contracts: and in the balance sheet as adjustments to the liability with other changes recognised in the income statement.
Investment contracts are contracts that have neither signi cant insurance risk nor a DPF.
Revenue in relation to investment management services is recognised as the services are provided.
Incremental costs Insurance Contracts and Investment Contracts with DPF directly attributable to securing the Groups contractual right Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF liabilities to bene t from providing investment management services in written within the with-pro t fund, including both traditional relation to investment contracts, other than through a business and unitised with-pro t contracts, are calculated with reference combination or portfolio transfer refer to the accounting to the expected payout using realistic and, where applicable, policy for intangible assets, are recognised as an asset if it is market consistent assumptions in accordance with FRS 27.
For probable that they will be recovered.
Incremental costs include insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when commissions paid to intermediaries and other similar costs.
This due from the policyholder and claims payable are recorded asset, referred to as deferred origination costs, is amortised when noti ed.
For unitised with-pro t contracts, where the as the related investment management revenue is recognised, policyholder has the choice to invest in a unit-linked investment and its recoverability assessed at each balance sheet date on a fund, deposits and withdrawals are accounted for directly on portfolio basis.
Similarly, for investment contracts with DPF, deposits and withdrawals are accounted for directly in the Unallocated Surplus balance sheet.
The unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability as permitted by IFRS 4.
The carrying value of the unallocated In 2007, insurance contract liabilities within the non-pro t funds surplus is determined as the residual assets of the with-pro t are calculated in accordance with the Prudential Sourcebook fund after providing for the with-pro t liabilities in accordance for Insurers INS PRU issued by the UK Financial Services with the policies described above.
Authority, including the impact of PS06 14 Prudential changes for Insurers issued in December 2006.
Premiums Post Retirement Schemes are recognised as revenue when due from the policyholder The Groups net obligation in respect of fide ned bene t pension and claims payable are recorded when noti ed in the income plans is calculated separately for each plan.
The cost of claims is estimated based upon an represents the present value of the future bene ts owed to assessment of the likely costs taking account of all known facts.
employees in return for their service in the current and prior periods, after the deduction of the fair value of any plan assets.
The accounting policies set out above in respect of the measurement of the insurance contracts written within the The discount rate used is the market yield on high quality with-pro t and non-pro t funds and investment contracts with corporate bonds at the balance sheet date that have maturity 165 DPF liabilities include liability adequacy testing that meets the dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligation.
requirements of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising Value of In-force Long Term Assurance Business VIF are taken directly to equity in the period in which they are The Group places a value on the insurance contracts and incurred.
investment contracts with DPF, which represents the present value of future cash ows attributable to the Group with The charge to the income statement for fide ned bene t respect to these contracts.
The change in VIF is accounted schemes includes current service cost, past service cost, the for as revenue.
interest cost of the scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets.
In-force business is fide ned as all policies where the first premium has been paid.
For traditional with-pro t business, The cost of contributions to fide ned contribution pension the surplus attributable to the Group equates to one ninth of the schemes are recognised as an expense in the income cost of the bonuses declared in any year.
The level of assumed statement as incurred.
166 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued Taxation and investment business which are taken to net investment Income tax on the pro t or loss for the year comprises current income related to insurance and investment business.
All other and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income debt securities in issue are held at amortised cost.
They are statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised initially recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The transaction costs and are subsequently carried on the balance tax charge is analysed between tax that is payable in respect sheet at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
of policyholder returns and tax that is payable on shareholders Fair values are calculated based on quoted market prices.
This allocation is based on an assessment of the Where quoted market prices are not available, a cash ow effective rate of tax that is applicable to shareholders equity for model is used, discounted using an appropriate current yield the year.
curve for the remaining term to maturity.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability Other Borrowed Funds method, providing for temporary differences between the Other borrowed funds comprises preference shares that carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting are classi ed as debt, preferred securities and subordinated purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The liabilities, all of which are held at amortised cost, using the following differences are not provided: goodwill not deductible effective interest rate method.
for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t and differences Preference shares are classi ed as debt where they are relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they redeemable on a speci c date, or at the option of the will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount shareholders, or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of Dividends on preference shares classi ed as debt are realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and recognised in the income statement through interest expense.
liabilities, based on tax rates that are enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Preferred securities issued at or close to market values are classi ed as debt where they are redeemable on a speci c Provisions date, or at the option of the holders, or if interest payments are The Group recognises a provision if there is a present obligation not discretionary.
The interest payable on such securities is as a consequence of either a legal or a constructive obligation recognised in the income statement through interest expense.
To recognise this it should be probable that an out ow of economic resources, that can Subordinated liabilities consist of dated and undated loan be reliably measured, will be required to settle the obligation.
The interest payable is recognised in the income Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future statement through interest expense.
cash ows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the speci c liability where appropriate.
Netting The Group nets loans, deposits and derivative transactions A constructive obligation is only deemed to exist in respect of covered by master agreements and when there is a legal right restructuring provisions once a detailed restructuring plan has of offset and where simultaneous or net settlement is permitted been formally approved and the plan has been announced under the terms of the relevant agreement and where there is publicly or work on the restructure has commenced.
the intention and ability to settle on a net or simultaneous basis.
As explained under critical accounting judgements, if the Foreign Currencies Group assesses that a constructive obligation for a regulatory The financial statements are presented in sterling which is the provision exists then a provision is established.
Where the Companys functional and presentation currency.
provisioning criteria are met, the Group makes provision for the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the respect of past product sales where the sales processes have exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
To calculate the provision the Group estimates the number of cases requiring redress and the average cost Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate per case.
These are dependent upon, inter alia, the volume at the date of the balance sheet.
Exchange differences arising of claims, the actions of regulators and, as appropriate, the are recognised in the income statement except for differences performance of investments.
As progress is made in settling arising from net investment hedges and derivatives related to claims, if necessary, the Group revises its judgements and cash ow hedges which are recognised directly in equity.
estimates based on the emerging trends.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost are Regulatory provisions held in respect of customer remediation translated using the historical exchange rate.
where a legal obligation exists or the Group considers that a constructive obligation exists are set out in Note 33.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value are translated at exchange rates on the date the fair value is Debt Securities in Issue determined.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in Debt securities in issue held for trading are classi ed as the income statement except those relating to available for sale financial liabilities held for trading and are carried at fair value.
financial assets equity investments, which are recognised Gains, losses and related income are taken to net trading directly in reserves.
Debt securities in issue designated at fair value through the income statement are carried at fair value.
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have Gains, losses and related income are taken to other operating a functional currency different from sterling are translated into income as they arise, except for those related to insurance sterling as follows: Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 167 assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are Effective Interest Rate translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: Revenue on financial instruments classi ed as loans and receivables, available for sale, or financial liabilities at amortised goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition cost, is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
This of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the calculation takes into account interest received or paid and foreign entity and translated at the closing rate: and fees and commissions paid or received that are integral to the yield as well as incremental transaction costs.
The effective income and expenses are translated at the average interest rate is the rate that discounts the expected future cash exchange rates for the period unless this is not a reasonable ows over the expected life of the financial instrument or, where approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses the financial instrument at initial recognition.
These calculations are translated at the dates of the transactions.
are undertaken on a portfolio basis other than in respect of signi cant balances, relating principally to larger corporate All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate customers, which are assessed individually.
In applying the component of other reserves within equity.
portfolio basis, the Group makes use of various statistical modelling techniques which are speci c to different portfolios On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the in estimating the expected cash ows from early redemptions translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of and related fees to the extent that these are applicable.
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as In calculating the effective interest rates of individually hedges of such investments, are taken to equity where the signi cant balances, the Group takes into account a number hedge is deemed to be effective.
When a foreign operation is of relevant considerations to estimate the cash ows from sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income early redemptions, including previous experience of customer statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The ineffective behaviour, credit scoring of the customer and anticipated portion of any net investment hedge is recognised in the income future market conditions at the date of acquisition.
estimation of early redemption cash ows and their impact on the expected life is considered under critical accounting Cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations estimates.
are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004.
Any gain or loss on the subsequent disposal of a foreign operation will exclude Fees and Commission translation differences that arose before 1 January 2004, but Fees and commission income and expense is recognised in include later translation differences.
the income statement as the related service is provided except those that are integral to the effective interest rate calculations Cash and Cash Equivalents or to investment contract deferred origination costs.
Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short term cash commitments rather than investing or other Fees and commission recognised in the income statement purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and include service fees, agency and management fees, transaction balances at central banks that are freely available, and loans fees, guarantee fees, letter of credit fees, asset management and advances to banks with an original maturity of three months fees and non-utilisation fees.
or less excluding financial assets that are held for trading purposes.
Syndication and underwriting fees are spread over the expected term of the sell down.
In the event of the loan not being sold Share-based Payments down then no fees are recognised.
The Group predominantly operates equity-settled sharebased compensation schemes in exchange for employee Fees and commission included in the effective interest services received.
The fair values of options or shares granted rate calculation are those that are incremental and directly are determined at the date of grant and expensed over the attributable to the origination of the product and which are vesting period.
The fair values of the options or shares granted integral to the yield of the product.
These include arrangement are measured using various models, taking into account the fees, incentives such as cash backs, intermediary fees and terms and conditions upon which the options and shares were commissions, high loan to value fees and procurement fees.
Market conditions are taken into account to set the fair value at grant and are not updated.
Non-market vesting Guarantees conditions, including non-market performance conditions, Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to are not re ected in the grant date fair value but are re ected make speci ed payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it 167 within estimates of the number of options or shares expected incurs because a speci ed debtor fails to make payment when to vest.
Any adjustments required as a result of updating these due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
estimates are taken to the income statement over the remaining vesting period.
Modi cations are assessed at the date of Intra-group financial guarantee contracts in the Company modi cation and any incremental charges required are charged financial statements are accounted for as general insurance to the income statement over any remaining vesting period.
This practice also applies to any new intra-group share-based compensation schemes settled by the Company financial guarantees written.
a recharge equal to the cost during the period is made to Loan Commitments subsidiary companies.
Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments which have become onerous.
168 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued Critical Accounting Judgements The Group has chosen not to designate any financial assets The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires as held to maturity: the exercise of judgement both in the application of accounting All other financial assets are automatically classi ed as policies which are set out on pages 160 to 167.
These available for sale: and judgements are continually reviewed and evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
The principal critical All other financial liabilities are automatically classi ed as at accounting judgements made by the Group that have a material amortised cost.
financial impact on the financial statements are as follows: The accounting treatment of these financial instruments is set Designation of Financial Instruments out in the relevant accounting policy.
The Group has classi ed its financial instruments in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Impairment of Available for Sale Investments Measurement.
In some instances the classi cation is prescribed The Group has considered the fall in fair values of investments whilst in others the Group is able to exercise judgement in classi ed as available for sale to ascertain whether any determining the classi cation as follows: impairment has occurred.
Impairment is recognised when there is objective evidence that a speci c financial asset is impaired.
Non-derivative financial assets, other than those held for Evidence may include a debt issuer failing to make an interest trading, where there is no active market and which have or principal repayment or breaching a covenant within the xed or determinable payments are classi ed as loans and securitys terms and conditions or a signi cant or prolonged receivables: decline in the fair value of an equity instrument below its cost.
Except when a default event has occurred, the determination The Groups trading portfolio is classi ed as held for trading.
of whether or not objective evidence of impairment is present The Group exercises judgement in determining which financial requires the exercise of critical accounting judgement by the instruments form part of its trading book.
at acquisition by the purpose for which the instrument is acquired and the business area that acquires it: Unarranged Overdraft Charges The Groups accounting policy in respect of regulatory Derivative instruments are automatically classi ed as at fair provisions is given in the section on provisions.
In the value through the income statement unless they form part absence of a legal obligation, judgement is necessary in of a qualifying hedging relationship.
The Groups accounting determining the existence of a constructive obligation.
policy for hedge accounting is described under the policy for In respect of the claims made for refunds of unarranged derivatives: overdraft charges, the judgement of the Group is that there is Instruments that are deemed by the Group on initial no constructive obligation pending the outcome of the legal recognition to eliminate a measurement mismatch or where case.
The contingent liability in respect of ex-gratia refunds they contain an embedded derivative which is not separated of unarranged overdraft charges is explained in Note 41. from the host contract are designated on initial recognition Syndications as at fair value through the income statement.
In addition As explained in the accounting policy on syndications, the portfolios of assets, liabilities or both that are managed and Group has elected to treat loans and advances pending the performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance syndication as loans and receivables rather than account with a documented risk or investment management strategy for them as trading assets.
Accordingly these are initially are designated on initial recognition at fair value through the recognised at the draw down date at the fair value as at income statement.
the commitment date plus directly attributable incremental In addition the venture capital exemption is taken for transaction costs.
investments where signi cant in uence or joint control Critical Accounting Estimates is present and the investing area operates as a venture The preparation of the financial statements requires the capital business.
These investments are designated at fair Group to make estimations where uncertainty exists.
The value through the income statement.
This policy is applied principal critical accounting estimates made by the Group consistently across the Groups portfolios.
Judgement is are considered below.
Disclosures about estimates and the applied when determining whether or not a business area related assumptions are also included in the appropriate Note.
operates as a venture capital business.
The judgement is based on consideration of whether, in particular, the primary Fair Values business activity is investing for current income, capital The designation of financial instruments for measurement appreciation or both: whether the investment activities are purposes is set out under the critical accounting judgements clearly and objectively distinct from any other activities of above and the valuation methodologies for financial instruments the Group: and whether the investee operates as a separate are set out in the appropriate accounting policies.
business autonomous from the Group: Derivatives and other financial instruments designated as at fair Assets in support of the general insurance and long term value through the income statement or available for sale are assurance businesses are designated by the Group, as at fair recognised at fair value.
value through the income statement: As explained in the accounting policy on investment securities, Investment contracts within the long term assurance business asset backed securities ABS not traded in an active market are designated by the Group as at fair value through the are valued using valuation models that include non-market income statement: Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 169 observable inputs.
These models use observed issuance Long Term Assurance Business prices, benchmarking methodology and modelled market The estimation of the Groups insurance and investment correlations.
For each asset class within the ABS portfolio, the contracts with discretionary participating features DPF implied spread arrived at by using this methodology is applied liabilities and related value of in-force VIF assets relies on a to the securities within that asset class.
Additional assessments number of assumptions in forecasting future experience.
The are then made on possible deterioration in credit risk for each selection of appropriate assumptions requires the application individual security.
of material judgement and is made with reference to historic trends, taking into account the analysis of actual versus At 31 December 2007, the value of ABS measured using expected experience as well as industry data.
The sensitivity of models with non-market observable inputs comprised the Groups results to changes in certain key variables on long investment securities of 5,404m 2006 nil within financial term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF are assets held for trading and 12,386m 2006 nil within assets disclosed in Note 24. classi ed as available for sale.
As described in the accounting policy for insurance contracts During the year, a 78m pre-tax negative fair value adjustment and investment contracts with DPF and in the description of was recognised in the income statement, within net trading long term assurance business in Note 26 assumptions are income, on ABS that were valued using models with nonmade when calculating the value of these contracts, which also market observable inputs 2006 nil.
In addition to this a impact on the value of the VIF and the unallocated surplus.
The post-tax negative fair value adjustment of 158m 2006 nil on Group applies signi cant judgement when selecting the rates of ABS classi ed as available for sale was recognised in equity persistency to be used in these calculations.
given to lapse and surrender rate assumptions are detailed in Note 26.
For ABS asset valuations using non-market observable inputs, the effect of a one basis point move in credit spreads would Effective Interest Rate result in a pre-tax movement of 2m for ABS assets classi ed As described in the accounting policy for effective interest as held for trading and a post-tax movement of 4m, recognised rate, the Group uses statistical and mathematical models to in equity reserves, on assets classi ed as available for sale.
calculate the effective yield for loans and advances.
The Group applies judgement when determining the expected life of these The use of non-market observable inputs in the valuation loans.
The underlying products usually allow the customer to models will diminish as and when activity returns to these make early repayment before the contractual maturity date.
estimating the expected life of the loan, the Group takes into account a number of relevant considerations when the asset Impairment Losses on Loans and Advances is initially recognised to estimate the cash ows from early Impairment loss calculations involve the estimation of future redemptions including the type of product, previous experience cash ows of loans and advances based on observable data of customer behaviour, credit scoring of the customer and at the balance sheet date and historical loss experience for anticipated future market conditions.
After initial recognition the assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
These calculations cash ows from early redemptions are not reassessed in the are undertaken on a portfolio basis other than in respect of effective interest rate calculation in the light of actual experience.
signi cant balances, relating principally to larger corporate If the estimated life of the Retail portfolio were to increase or customers, which are assessed individually.
In applying the decrease by one month then the carrying value of the Retail portfolio basis the Group makes use of various statistical portfolio would increase or decrease by 18m respectively.
modelling techniques which are speci c to different portfolio types.
In calculating individual impairment provisions the Group Goodwill takes account of a number of relevant considerations including Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business.
As explained in historical experience, future prospects of the customer, value of the accounting policy for goodwill it is subject to a six monthly collateral held and reliability of information.
impairment review by comparing the value in use with the carrying value.
When this indicates that the carrying value is not fide ned Bene t Schemes recoverable it is written down through the income statement as The expected cash ows used in the calculation of the fide ned goodwill impairment.
bene t schemes liabilities include a number of assumptions around mortality, in ation rates applicable to fide ned bene ts The value in use calculation uses cash ow projections based and the average expected service lives of the employees.
The upon the five year business plan with cash ows thereafter selection of these assumptions and the selection of the discount being extrapolated using growth rates in the range of 2.25% 169 rate have a material impact on the estimation of the pension to 2.50%, re ecting the long term nature of the businesses liabilities.
The discount rate used by the Group to calculate the concerned and the long term trend in growth rate of the fide ned bene t scheme liabilities is based on the market yield respective economy.
The pre-tax discount rates used in at the balance sheet date of high quality bonds with a similar discounting the projected cash ows are in the range of 10% to duration to that of the schemes liabilities.
The sensitivity of the 12.2% re ecting the perceived risk within those businesses.
As scheme liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions used at 31 December 2007 the carrying value of goodwill held on the are set out in Note 29. balance sheet is 1,940m 2006 1,889m as shown in Note 19.
With the exception of goodwill which has been impaired by 5m during the year leaving a carrying value of 10m, the aggregate headroom between the value in use and carrying value of goodwill plus net assets of the businesses is suf ciently large that changes in growth and discount rates, after allowing for current credit conditions, would have no material impact on the goodwill impairment charge.
170 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Income 2007 2006 m m Included within net interest income are the following: Interest income on financial instruments not designated at fair value through the income statement 34,807 26,733 Interest expense on financial instruments not designated at fair value through the income statement 27,358 19,269 Net trading income comprises: Equity and commodity instruments and related derivatives 92 20 Interest bearing securities and related derivatives 58 164 Foreign exchange and related derivatives 72 95 Fair value hedges: Net gains losses from hedging instruments 1,184 2,674 Net losses gains from hedged items 1,227 2,688 Cash ow hedge ineffectiveness recognised 1 1 178 292 Included within net operating income are the following: Cash ow hedges: Net gains losses released from equity into income 417 123 Financial instruments at fair value through the income statement: Net gains and losses from trading financial instruments and non hedging derivatives 222 324 Net gains and losses from designated financial instruments 5,229 5,401 Available for sale financial instruments: Dividend income 291 25 Net realised gains on sale 263 244 Financial instruments designated as loans and receivables: Net realised gains on sale 3 1 2 Non-operating income 2007 2006 m m Non-operating income comprises: Pro t on the sale and leaseback of certain branch premises 28 22 Pro t on the part disposal of Rightmove plc Note 17 59 17 Pro t on the sale of Insight Investment Management C. I.
Limited 4 Pro t on the dilution of shareholding in Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc Invista 22 Pro t on the sale of Retail Financial Services Limited 9 Pro t on the sale of Drive Financial Services LP 180 91 250 3 Change in Investment Contract Liabilities 2007 2006 m m Net change in investment contracts designated at fair value through the income statement 2,451 3,034 Net change in investment contracts with DPF 87 124 2,538 2,910 4 Administrative Expenses 2007 2006 m m Administrative expenses include: Mortgage endowment compensation 95 Charge in respect of ex-gratia refunds of unarranged overdraft charges Note 41 122 Administrative expenses also include: Colleague costs Note 5 2,911 2,674 Accommodation, repairs and maintenance 450 421 Technology 273 238 Marketing and communication 380 367 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 171 5 Colleagues Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 Number Number Number Number The average number of colleagues employed during the year was: Full time 57,129 55,234 53,455 52,033 Part time 16,958 16,616 16,265 16,229 74,087 71,850 69,720 68,262 The Group refers to its employees as colleagues.
Most UK based colleagues are contractually employed by the Company.
The expense related to these colleagues is recharged to the subsidiary that gains the bene t of their employment and accordingly there are no residual staff costs held by the Company.
2007 2006 m m The aggregate remuneration payable in respect of Group colleagues is included within administrative expenses and comprises: Wages and salaries 2,340 2,137 Social security costs 226 228 Pension costs Note 29 201 205 Other post retirement bene ts Note 29 5 3 Expense arising from share-based payments Note 37 139 101 2,911 2,674 6 Directors Remuneration 2007 2006 000 000 Emoluments 11,834 9,577 Total potential pre-tax gains on share options exercised 715 402 Total value of shares vested under long term incentive schemes 4,989 6,681 Retirement bene ts accrued to one Director for part of the year until bene ts reached the Lifetime Allowance.
In 2006 retirement bene ts accrued for one Director for the full year and in respect of five Directors until 5 April 2006 at which point their bene ts were above the Lifetime Allowance at A-day.
Thereafter further service based accrual ceased with all Directors receiving an annual non-pensionable cash allowance of 25% of salary, payable monthly, in lieu.
These payments are included in emoluments.
A detailed analysis of Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share interests, share options and shares received under incentive schemes is given on pages 123 to 143 in the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
7 Auditors Remuneration The aggregate remuneration of KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for audit and other services excluding value added taxes included within administrative expenses is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Statutory audit of the Company and HBOS consolidation 0.3 0.3 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries and associates 7.7 6.5 Other services pursuant to legislation 1.0 1.4 Tax services compliance and advisory 0.8 0.9 Services relating to information technology 0.1 0.3 171 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.3 0.7 Other services 1.2 1.1 Total other services 11.1 10.9 11.4 11.2 172 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7 Auditors Remuneration continued Other services pursuant to legislation includes work in support of regulatory reporting and listing rules and includes the review of the half yearly results.
Other services relating to corporate finance transactions includes fees for reviews in relation to capital and debt issues, securitisations and covered bond issues.
In addition to the fees included in the consolidated accounts a fee of nil 2006 0.2m was paid to the auditors in respect of the Companys pension scheme.
In respect of the Company, fees in respect of the statutory audit were 22,000 2006 22,000 and other fees amounted to 0.3m 2006 0.2m.
Details of the Audit Committee policy covering the engagement of the external auditors to undertake non-audit work on behalf of the Group is given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 119.
8 Segmental Analysis Business Sector 2007 Treasury & Insurance & Asset Group Retail Corporate Investment International Management Items Total m m m m m m m Net interest income internal 1,050 1,330 70 1,269 3,719 Net Interest income external 5,149 3,381 28 2,357 3,555 7,304 Net fee and commission income internal 190 7 168 21 50 Net fee and commission income external 1,075 393 521 45 268 1,260 Net trading income external 7 65 7 3 130 178 Other operating income internal 19 15 45 79 Other operating income external 58 2,044 9,611 652 184 12,549 Net operating income 5,434 4,575 8,817 1,848 617 21,291 Administrative expenses internal 672 151 113 6 42 984 Administrative expenses external 1,523 689 680 665 296 1,126 4,979 Depreciation and amortisation 70 1,018 57 54 4 199 1,402 Goodwill impairment 5 5 Other operating expenses 7,406 278 7,684 Operating expenses 2,265 1,858 8,261 1,003 342 341 14,070 Impairment losses on loans and advances 1,294 602 116 2,012 Impairment losses on investment securities 22 37 1 60 Operating pro t 1,853 2,078 556 728 275 341 5,149 Share of pro ts of jointly controlled entities and associates 9 232 2 17 4 234 Non-operating income 87 4 91 Pro t before taxation 1,931 2,310 554 745 275 341 5,474 Total assets 260,055 121,841 88,454 76,087 119,807 703 666,947 Included in total assets: Interests in jointly controlled entities and associates 83 786 41 133 24 985 Loans and advances to customers 253,389 109,292 67,094 232 430,007 Total liabilities 221,526 57,777 83,297 35,806 245,604 703 644,713 Included in total liabilities: Customer accounts 158,320 44,048 101 23,585 17,167 243,221 Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 6 43 11 83 16 397 556 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 173 In March 2007 the Group announced a divisional reorganisation under which the Groups European Corporate business became part of Corporate division moving from International division.
Accordingly the 2006 comparatives have been restated to re ect the new structure.
2006 Treasury & Insurance & Asset Group b Retail Corporate Investment International Management Items Total m m m m m m m Net interest income internal 395 547 70 1,149 2,161 Net interest income external 4,583 2,511 23 2,285 1,956 7,400 Net fee and commission income internal 186 11 185 4 16 Net fee and commission income external 1,112 347 480 25 159 1,163 Net trading income external 9 30 4 249 292 Other operating income internal 1 1 Other operating income external 44 1,374 11,561 859 21 13,859 Net operating income 5,538 3,726 10,803 2,028 619 22,714 Administrative expenses internal 658 165 98 2 22 945 Administrative expenses external 1,495 616 671 581 266 994 4,623 Depreciation and amortisation 69 827 51 49 4 192 1,192 Goodwill impairment 41 14 55 Other operating expenses 9,242 459 9,701 Operating expenses 2,222 1,649 10,076 1,091 292 241 15,571 Impairment losses on loans and advances 1,097 429 216 1,742 Impairment losses on investment securities 69 2 71 Operating pro t 2,219 1,579 727 719 327 241 5,330 Share of pro ts of jointly controlled entities and associates 2 156 37 4 1 126 Non-operating income 48 180 22 250 Pro t before taxation 2,269 1,735 690 903 350 241 5,706 a Total assets 242,960 100,860 82,656 57,900 106,658 779 591,813 Included in total assets: Interests in jointly controlled entities and associates 57 536 43 51 601 Loans and advances to customers 237,710 89,557 48,684 857 376,808 a Total liabilities 237,410 92,410 77,421 57,794 104,828 779 570,642 Included in total liabilities: Customer accounts 144,577 39,519 17,509 10,252 211,857 Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 7 39 18 72 10 351 497 a The total assets and total liabilities of Corporate include 1,388m and 909m respectively, being the assets and liabilities of the disposal group.
b International division includes the income and expenses of Drive which was disposed of during 2006.
173 174 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Segmental Analysis continued Geographical The table below analyses the Group results and assets by geographical area based on the location of the customer.
For funding costs where the location of the customer cannot be ascertained, the interest expense is matched to the location of the customer generating the interest income.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 175 9 Taxation 2007 2006 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge at 30% 1,124 978 Relief for overseas taxation 73 73 Overseas taxation 293 206 1,344 1,111 Deferred tax charge Note 31 199 661 Deferred tax changes in rates of corporation tax Note 31 178 21 661 Total income tax on pro t 1,365 1,772 The above tax expense is made up as follows: Tax on policyholder returns 18 220 Tax on shareholder returns 1,347 1,552 The effective tax rate for the year is 25% 2006 31% which is lower 2006 higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 m m Pro t before taxation 5,474 5,706 Pro t multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2006 30% 1,642 1,712 Effects of: Changes in rates of corporation tax on deferred tax assets and liabilities 178 Income not chargeable expenses not deductible for tax purposes 48 9 Net effect of differing tax rates overseas 29 16 Book gains covered by tax exemptions indexation 90 109 Policyholder tax differing tax rates for life assurance business 13 154 Impairment on investment securities 16 23 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 14 7 Other 5 26 Total income tax on pro t 1,365 1,772 Current tax credit recognised directly in equity Relating to share plans 21 24 Relating to available for sale investments 117 10 138 34 Deferred tax credit charge recognised directly in equity Note 31 Relating to share plans 64 62 Relating to available for sale investments 65 20 Relating to cash ow hedges 219 125 Relating to employee bene ts 130 56 Relating to long term assurance 5 Relating to other 1 86 139 In addition there is 1m 2006 nil recognised in equity relating to changes in the rates of corporation tax Note 31.
175 176 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10 Earnings per ordinary share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are based upon Group pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders of 3,965m 2006 3,820m which is calculated as follows: 2007 2006 m m Pro t attributable to parent company shareholders 4,045 3,879 Pro t attributable to preference shareholders 80 59 Pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders 3,965 3,820 Pro t of disposal group held for sale attributable to ordinary shareholders 3 Pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders for continuing operations 3,965 3,817 To calculate basic earnings per ordinary share the weighted average number of 25p ordinary shares is used and for diluted earnings per ordinary share the weighted average number of actual and potential 25p ordinary shares is used.
Details of these are given below: 2007 2006 Number Number million million Actual weighted average number of shares in issue 3,735 3,796 Adjustment for weighted average number of shares on which options have been granted but not yet exercised 23 42 Potential weighted average number of shares in issue 3,758 3,838 The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are given below: 2007 2006 pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations 106.2 100.5 Disposal group 0.1 Total 106.2 100.6 Diluted earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations 105.5 99.4 Disposal group 0.1 Total 105.5 99.5 11 Financial Instruments Held for Trading Financial assets and liabilities held for trading other than derivatives are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Financial assets held for trading Debt securities 36,723 34,884 Loans and advances to banks 11,601 11,870 Loans and advances to customers 6,357 2,379 Other assets 6 Total 54,681 49,139 Financial liabilities held for trading Debt securities in issue 469 376 Deposits by banks 8,989 10,014 Customer accounts 13,247 11,551 Other liabilities 393 Total 22,705 22,334 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 177 12 Disposal group The assets and liabilities of the disposal group were acquired in 2006 with a view to subsequent disposal.
They comprise the Mother Topco Limited group of companies, that includes McCarthy & Stone plc, a UK provider of retirement homes in which the Group had a 58.3% equity interest at 31 December 2006.
The assets and liabilities were sold during 2007 and within twelve months of the acquisition date.
As the disposal was made at the value at which the group was held at 31 December 2006 no additional pro t arose in 2007 that is attributable to the shareholders of the HBOS Group.
13 Derivatives The Groups derivative transactions are either customer driven and generally matched, held within policyholder funds as permitted by the investment strategies or are carried out for proprietary purposes within limits approved by the Board.
Where a derivative held for economic hedging purposes does not qualify for hedge accounting, it is classi ed below as held for trading.
2007 2006 Group Fair value Fair value Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Derivatives held for trading Exchange rate related contracts Forward foreign exchange 1,035 856 409 923 Cross currency swaps 667 297 371 450 Options 1 1 26 14 1,703 1,154 806 1,387 Interest rate related contracts Interest rate swaps 5,855 5,606 3,705 3,821 Forward rate agreements 119 111 46 45 Options 225 287 176 100 Futures 20 40 222 250 6,219 6,044 4,149 4,216 Equity index and commodity related contracts Options and swaps 1,412 870 1,188 714 Credit related contracts Credit default swaps 47 Total derivatives held for trading 9,381 8,068 6,143 6,317 Derivatives held as qualifying hedges 4,760 4,243 2,469 4,438 14,141 12,311 8,612 10,755 177 178 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Derivatives continued The Group uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and other derivative instruments to hedge and reduce the interest rate and currency exposures that are inherent in any banking business.
The hedge accounting strategy adopted by the Group is to utilise a combination of the macro cash ow, micro fair value and net investment hedge approaches.
The Group has entered into derivative contracts for qualifying hedges as noted below: 2007 2006 Group Fair value Fair value Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Derivatives held as qualifying hedges Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 732 575 501 441 Forward foreign exchange 27 7 Cross currency swaps 1,679 1,682 246 2,240 Options 4 2,411 2,284 747 2,692 Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges Interest rate swaps 1,558 1,801 1,643 1,121 Forward rate agreements 10 4 20 9 Cross currency swaps 756 139 14 605 Futures 25 15 45 11 2,349 1,959 1,722 1,746 Total derivatives held as qualifying hedges 4,760 4,243 2,469 4,438 The Company has derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
These comprise cross currency swaps with an asset fair value of 154m 2006 1m and a liability fair value of 49m 2006 55m and interest rate swaps with an asset fair value of 8m 2006 nil and a liability fair value of 7m 2006 1m.
14 Loans and Advances to Customers 2007 2006 m m Retail secured lending 235,849 219,828 Retail unsecured lending 19,831 20,009 Corporate, International and Treasury 177,700 140,060 Gross loans and advances to customers 433,380 379,897 Impairment losses on loans and advances Note 15 3,373 3,089 Net loans and advances to customers 430,007 376,808 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 179 The Groups lending exposure before impairment provisions and before taking account of collateral is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Agriculture, forestry and shing 647 686 Energy 1,269 1,571 Manufacturing industry 4,332 4,392 Construction and property 35,099 30,177 Hotels, restaurants and wholesale and retail trade 8,620 8,705 Transport, storage and communication 4,834 6,560 Financial 4,312 5,466 Other services 25,749 16,961 Individuals Home mortgages 235,771 219,716 Other personal lending 22,229 20,196 Non-UK residents 90,518 65,467 433,380 379,897 2007 2006 m m Loans and advances that are neither past due nor impaired 412,047 358,536 Loans and advances that are past due but not impaired Note 43 10,786 12,602 Impaired loans Note 43 10,547 8,759 433,380 379,897 Included in loans and advances that are neither past due nor impaired are 229m 2006 380m of troubled debt restructured loans that would have been past due or impaired had their terms not been renegotiated.
Loans and advances to customers include advances that are securitised under the Groups securitisation programmes, the majority of which have been sold by subsidiary companies to bankruptcy remote special purpose entities, funded by the issue of debt on terms whereby some of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are retained by the subsidiary.
Accordingly, all these advances are retained on the Groups balance sheet with the debt issued included within debt securities in issue Note 34.
The Groups principal securitisation programmes and the type of loans and advances securitised are as follows: 2007 2006 Programme Type of loan m m Permanent UK residential mortgages 31,577 35,036 Mound UK residential mortgages 4,545 5,692 Swan Australian residential mortgages 2,726 1,756 Candide Dutch residential mortgages 2,491 2,683 Prominent Commercial loans 1,101 798 Covered Bonds UK residential mortgages 34,704 23,476 Social Housing Covered Bonds UK residential mortgages 2,362 2,362 Pendeford UK residential mortgages 2,508 Melrose Commercial loans 750 817 Other UK residential mortgages 104 110 82,868 72,730 179 In addition to the programmes above loans and advances totalling 14,089m 2006 6,629m relating to UK residential mortgages have been securitised using credit default swaps.
180 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Loans and Advances to Customers continued Loans and advances to customers include finance leases analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Gross investment in finance receivables: Within one year 3,151 2,993 Between one and five years 5,051 4,719 More than five years 4,211 4,452 12,413 12,164 Less: unearned finance income 3,118 3,213 Present value of minimum lease payments 9,295 8,951 Analysed as: Within one year 2,616 2,477 Between one and five years 4,004 3,531 More than five years 2,675 2,943 Finance lease receivables 9,295 8,951 At 31 December 2007 total unguaranteed residual values accrued to the bene t of the Group amounted to 20m 2006 47m.
At 31 December 2007 total accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable amounted to 65m 2006 31m.
15 Impairment Provisions and Losses on Loans and Advances 2007 2006 Impairment provisions m m At 1 January 3,089 2,938 New impairment provisions less releases 2,111 1,819 Amounts written off 1,726 1,485 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 65 Discount unwind interest income on impaired loans and advances to customers 129 99 Foreign exchange translation 28 19 At 31 December 3,373 3,089 Impairment provisions are held in respect of: Retail secured lending 330 408 Retail unsecured lending 1,919 1,700 Corporate and International 1,124 981 3,373 3,089 2007 2006 Impairment losses m m New impairment provisions less releases 2,111 1,819 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 99 77 Net charge to income statement 2,012 1,742 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 181 16 Investment Securities Group 2007 Policyholder assets at fair At fair value value through through the income the income Available Loans and statement statement for sale receivables Total m m m m m Listed Debt securities 20,712 7,774 31,944 60,430 Equity shares 46,875 393 261 47,529 Total listed 67,587 8,167 32,205 107,959 Unlisted Debt securities 2 1,022 14,833 1,266 17,123 Equity shares 94 274 2,948 3,316 Total unlisted 96 1,296 17,781 1,266 20,439 Total 67,683 9,463 49,986 1,266 128,398 Comprising: Debt securities 20,714 8,796 46,777 1,266 77,553 Equity shares 46,969 667 3,209 50,845 Group 2006 Policyholder assets at fair At fair value value through through the income the income Available Loans and statement statement for sale receivables Total m m m m m Listed Debt securities 19,821 4,170 26,821 50,812 Equity shares 45,525 197 51 45,773 Total listed 65,346 4,367 26,872 96,585 Unlisted Debt securities 39 1,710 15,772 493 18,014 Equity shares 222 2,210 2,432 Total unlisted 39 1,932 17,982 493 20,446 Total 65,385 6,299 44,854 493 117,031 Comprising: Debt securities 19,860 5,880 42,593 493 68,826 Equity shares 45,525 419 2,261 48,205 The fair value movement during the year on investment securities held at fair value through the income statement is a gain of 1,014m 2006 3,679m and the fair value movement during the year on investment securities classi ed as available for sale is a loss of 516m 2006 a gain of 135m.
Within the fair value movement for available for sale is a loss of 105m 2006 loss of 136m relating to assets subject to fair value hedging, which is included in net trading income.
In keeping with normal market practice, the Group enters into securities lending transactions and repurchase agreements, whereby cash and securities are temporarily received or transferred as collateral.
Debt securities with a value of 13,707m 2006 2,989m were subject to agreement to repurchase, where the transferee obtains the right to pledge or sell the asset they receive.
Debt securities also include securities pledged as collateral as part of securities lending transactions amounting to 11,918m 2006 11,818m.
181 Debt securities include asset backed securities of 18,563m 2006 19,017m which are held in the Groups Grampian conduit.
This is a series of bankruptcy remote special purpose entities SPEs that are funded by the issue of commercial paper and banking facilities.
The commercial paper is included within debt securities in issue Note 34.
As some of the rewards and risks of the portfolio are retained by the Group, including the provision of liquidity facilities by Bank of Scotland plc to the conduit, the assets and liabilities of the conduit are consolidated as part of the Group.
The Group also has a smaller conduit, Landale, of which three of the five SPEs are consolidated.
These hold debt securities of 604m 2006 271m which are included in the total of available for sale investments.
Details of the Landale SPEs that are not consolidated by the Group are given in Note 46.
There are no impairment provisions held in respect of the Groups investment securities.
Investment securities held by the Company are designated as available for sale and comprise 1m 2006 4m unlisted equity shares and nil 2006 36m of listed debt securities.
The fair value at 31 December 2007 is 1m 2006 40m and the fair value movement during the year was nil 2006 nil.
Securities held as collateral as stock borrowed or under reverse repurchase agreements amounted to 39,975m 2006 33,773m.
These are not recognised as assets and are therefore not included above.
Of this amount the Group had resold or repledged 28,817m 2006 25,309m as collateral for its own transactions.
182 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Interests in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates Acquired Equity Share of Carrying book value adjustments net assets Goodwill value Interests in jointly controlled entities m m m m m At 1 January 2007 520 105 415 5 420 Exchange translation 12 12 12 Acquisitions and subscriptions of capital 287 287 287 Transfer to associates 3 4 1 1 Transfer from associates 63 15 78 78 Disposals 60 4 64 64 Pro t after tax 234 234 234 Dividends paid 132 132 132 At 31 December 2007 819 12 831 5 836 The transfer from associates to jointly controlled entities is in respect of the Groups interest in Sainsburys Bank plc, following the acquisition on 8 February 2007 of an additional 5% interest taking the Groups shareholding to 50%.
The Groups share of jointly controlled entities include the following: Pro t Current Non-current Current Non-current after tax assets assets liabilities liabilities Equity m m m m m m 2007 234 5,802 5,253 5,126 5,093 836 2006 112 3,604 5,290 4,462 4,012 420 The Groups unrecognised share of losses for the year is 22m 2006 36m.
For entities making losses, subsequent pro ts earned are not recognised until previously unrecognised losses are extinguished.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised pro ts on a cumulative basis is 68m 2006 82m.
Acquired Equity Share of Carrying book value adjustments net assets Goodwill value Interests in associates m m m m m At 1 January 2007 133 48 181 181 Exchange translation 1 1 1 Acquisitions and subscriptions of capital 109 109 109 Transfer to jointly controlled entities 63 15 78 78 Transfer from jointly controlled entities 3 4 1 1 Disposals 40 13 53 53 Dividends paid 10 10 10 At 31 December 2007 143 6 149 149 The Groups share of associates include the following: Pro t after tax Assets Liabilities Equity m m m m 2007 1,652 1,503 149 2006 14 3,284 3,103 181 The Groups unrecognised share of losses for the year is 5m 2006 nil.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised pro ts on a cumulative basis is 4m 2006 nil.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 183 The Groups main jointly controlled entities and associates in operation at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Issued Statutory Principal Nature of share Groups accounts area of business capital interest made up to operations Jointly controlled entities AA Personal Finance Limited Finance ordinary 3,000,002 50% December 2007 UK esure Holdings Ltd Insurance ordinary 3,330,000 70% December 2007 UK preference 175,170,000 100% Green Property Investment Fund 1 plc Investment ordinary 48,768,400 50% June 2007 Ireland Sainsburys Bank plc Banking ordinary 70,000,000 50% December 2007 UK Associates Rightmove plc Property website ordinary 129,399,978 13% December 2007 UK Except for the Green Property Investment Fund 1 plc which is incorporated in Ireland, all of the interests in jointly controlled entities and associates above are incorporated in the UK.
Rightmove plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Groups interest had a market valuation of 76m at 31 December 2007.
The Group reduced its holding in Rightmove plc from 22% to 13% during the year Note 2 and continues to consider the investment as an associate as a result of the in uence arising from the Groups representation on its Board.
All other interests are unlisted.
All interests in jointly controlled entities and associates are held by subsidiaries.
Where entities have accounts that are drawn up to a date other than 31 December management accounts are used when accounting for them by the Group.
18 Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries comprise investments in ordinary shares and capital contributions carried at cost.
There are no impairment provisions in respect of investments in subsidiaries.
Ordinary Capital shares contributions Total m m m At 1 January 2007 10,962 1,033 11,995 Subscriptions of capital 2,480 2,480 At 31 December 2007 13,442 1,033 14,475 Amounts owed by Group entities of 38,885m 2006 27,765m include 10,044m 2006 6,679m of other borrowed funds loaned to subsidiaries.
The main subsidiaries at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Companys interest in ordinary Country of share capital and voting rights Principal business incorporation Bank of Scotland plc 100% Banking, financial and related services UK and subsidiaries, including Bank of Scotland Ireland Ltd 100% Banking Ireland HBOS Australia Pty Ltd and subsidiaries, including Bank of Western Australia Ltd 100% Banking Australia a HBOS Covered Bonds LLP 100% Residential mortgage funding UK Halifax Share Dealing Ltd 100% Execution only stockbroking UK HBOS Insurance & Investment Group Ltd 100% Investment holding UK and subsidiaries, including Halifax General Insurance Services Ltd 100% General insurance brokerage UK St. Andrews Insurance plc 100% General insurance UK 183 Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Clerical Medical Managed Funds Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Halifax Life Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Halifax Investment Fund Managers Ltd 100% OEIC management UK Insight Investment Management Ltd 100% Investment management UK Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc 55% Property investment management UK St. Andrews Life Assurance plc 100% Pensions UK St. Jamess Place plc 60% Financial services UK a HBOS Covered Bonds LLP does not have ordinary share capital.
The Group consolidates a 100% interest in this entity.
On 17 September 2007 in accordance with the provisions of the HBOS Group Reorganisation Act 2006 the Act, the Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act and changed its name to Bank of Scotland plc.
On the same day, under the Act, the business activities, assets including investments in subsidiaries and liabilities of CAPITAL BANK plc, Halifax plc and HBOS Treasury Services plc transferred to Bank of Scotland plc.
184 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 2007 2006 Group m m Goodwill 1,940 1,889 Other intangibles 850 800 2,790 2,689 2007 2006 Goodwill m m At 1 January 1,889 1,666 Exchange translation 38 14 Acquired through business combinations 8 200 Additions 25 Transfer from jointly controlled entities 96 Disposals 15 4 Impairment losses charged to the income statement 5 55 At 31 December 1,940 1,889 The Group carries out semi-annual and, if necessary, other impairment reviews of cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated as described in the accounting policy on goodwill.
The critical accounting estimate in respect of goodwill explains the assumptions used and sensitivity of the impairment testing.
Arising from this, the impairment loss of 5m in the year primarily relates to a partial write-down of the goodwill held in respect of fund management business in Insurance & Investment division following the latest semi-annual impairment review.
The impairment loss of 55m in 2006 principally relates to the full write down of the goodwill held in respect of a Corporate specialist leasing company following an impairment review.
Goodwill is analysed on a divisional basis as follows: 2007 2006 m m Retail 455 443 Corporate 277 280 Insurance & Investment 832 835 International 337 292 Treasury & Asset Management 39 39 Total 1,940 1,889 2007 2006 Purchased Purchased value of Software value of Software in-force and other in-force and other investment intangible investment intangible contracts assets Total contracts assets Total Other intangible assets m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 396 1,069 1,465 396 902 1,298 Exchange translation 24 24 2 2 Acquired through business combination 7 7 6 6 Additions 249 249 197 197 Disposals 16 16 34 34 At 31 December 396 1,333 1,729 396 1,069 1,465 Amortisation At 1 January 45 620 665 21 495 516 Exchange translation 23 23 1 1 Amortisation charge for the year 30 163 193 24 137 161 Disposals 2 2 11 11 At 31 December 75 804 879 45 620 665 Carrying value At 1 January 351 449 800 375 407 782 At 31 December 321 529 850 351 449 800 The Company has other intangible assets at a cost of 10m 2006 10m less accumulated amortisation of 4m 2006 2m, of which 2m 2006 2m is the amortisation charge for the year.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 185 20 Property and Equipment 2007 2006 Property Equipment Total Property Equipment Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 1,662 1,613 3,275 1,533 1,567 3,100 Exchange translation 5 11 16 3 6 9 Acquired through business combination 1 1 15 5 20 Additions 123 184 307 134 146 280 Disposals 38 187 225 38 90 128 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 2 9 11 Transfer to from investment property Note 21 19 19 23 23 At 31 December 1,733 1,622 3,355 1,662 1,613 3,275 Depreciation At 1 January 590 1,112 1,702 550 1,017 1,567 Exchange translation 5 7 12 5 5 Depreciation charge for the year 59 165 224 53 166 219 Disposals 26 51 77 12 60 72 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 1 6 7 At 31 December 628 1,233 1,861 590 1,112 1,702 Carrying value At 1 January 1,072 501 1,573 983 550 1,533 At 31 December 1,105 389 1,494 1,072 501 1,573 Included within Group property and equipment are assets that are in the course of construction amounting to 306m 2006 353m which are not depreciated until the assets are brought into use.
These are primarily properties that will be classi ed as investment properties upon completion.
21 Investment Properties 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 5,010 3,942 Disposals 58 2 Net movement in properties held by policyholder funds 351 655 Fair value movement 591 438 Transfer from to property and equipment Note 20 19 23 At 31 December 4,731 5,010 Investment properties are carried at their fair value as determined by independent quali ed surveyors having recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties.
Rental income and expenses in respect of the above properties amounted to 221m and 11m respectively 2006 249m and 25m respectively.
At 31 December 2007 investment properties of 4,697m 2006 4,917m are held in the Insurance & Investment business.
185 186 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Operating Lease Assets Assets leased to customers include the following amounts in respect of operating lease assets: 2007 2006 Carrying Carrying Cost Depreciation value Cost Depreciation value m m m m m m At 1 January 6,164 1,483 4,681 4,370 1,255 3,115 Exchange translation 28 30 2 88 34 54 Acquired through business combination 1,428 1,428 Additions 1,785 1,785 1,804 1,804 Disposals 1,438 598 840 1,350 550 800 Depreciation charge for the year 985 985 812 812 At 31 December 6,483 1,840 4,643 6,164 1,483 4,681 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due to be received in the following periods: 2007 2006 m m Not later than one year 864 1,264 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,920 1,578 Later than five years 689 802 3,473 3,644 23 Deferred Costs 2007 2006 m m Deferred acquisition costs 352 278 Deferred origination costs 749 575 1,101 853 24 Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 3,104 2,847 Disposals 16 Unwind of discount rate 245 227 Transfer to the income statement 415 479 Effect of experience 201 8 New business 567 558 Changes in assumptions 180 32 Exchange translation 64 9 At 31 December 3,184 3,104 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 187 Assumptions The key assumptions used in the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business relating to insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature DPF are determined by the Board of Directors.
The economic assumptions that have the greatest effect on the calculation of the value of in-force long term assurance business are set out below.
These assumptions require the application of material judgement and are chosen to represent a long term view of the likely economic environment.
The experience assumptions set out in Note 26 also have a signi cant effect on the cash ow projections.
The selection of these assumptions also requires the application of material judgement and is made with reference to historic trends, taking into account the analysis of actual versus expected experience as well as industry data.
Additional information on the long term assurance business risk is set out on pages 99 to 101 of the Risk Management report.
Risk discount rate The risk discount rate, the rate used to calculate the present value of the future projected cash ows, is based on the long term view of the risk free rate of return.
As a long term view, it necessarily involves the application of judgement.
The risk discount rate is increased to re ect the uncertainty associated with the projected cash ows.
This increase can be broken down into two principal components, being the investment risk component and the insurance risk component.
The investment risk component represents an allowance for uncertainty as to the level of future margins that will actually be achieved by the Groups investments.
The level of the investment risk component is chosen so as to avoid capitalising any investment risk premiums over the long term view of the risk free rate of return.
The insurance risk component represents an additional allowance in the risk discount rate to re ect the potential volatility of, and uncertainty around, the future level of insurance risk inherent in the contracts.
The breakdown of the risk discount rate is shown in the table below: 2007 2006 % % Long term view of risk free rate of return 5.0 5.0 Investment risk component 1.0 1.0 Insurance risk component 2.0 2.0 Total 8.0 8.0 In isolation of any other assumption changes, an increase in the risk discount rate would result in a decrease in the value of in-force long term assurance business reducing pro ts and vice versa.
Investment return Assumptions are set for each individual asset class based on the long term view of expected returns, and weighted to produce an investment return assumption for each particular class of business.
The weighting is based on the long term asset allocation strategy for each class of business.
The table below sets out the long term view of the expected returns for the principal asset classes: 2007 2006 % % Return on xed interest securities 5.0-5.5 5.0-5.5 Return on equities 7.5 7.5 In isolation, an increase in the investment return assumption would lead to an increase in pro ts, and vice versa.
187 188 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business continued Expenses Operating expense assumptions re ect the projected costs of maintaining and servicing in-force insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF and associated overhead expenses.
The current level of expenses is taken as an appropriate expense base.
The current expenses are analysed having regard to the volume and type of business in force to derive per contract expense assumptions.
These per policy expense assumptions are assumed to increase over the course of the projections in line with expected expenses over the plan period reverting to an assumed expense in ation rate of 3% 2006 3% thereafter.
Changes in assumptions There were no signi cant changes in the economic assumptions during 2007 used in the derivation of the value of in-force long term assurance business.
However, there were a number of changes to the underlying experience assumptions used to estimate the cash ows from the long term assurance business.
Additionally, certain non-pro t reserving methodologies have been updated to take account of the adoption of PS06 14 in 2007.
This has the effect of decreasing both the value of in-force long term assurance business asset and insurance contract liabilities.
Overall this has a net positive impact in 2007.
These are discussed further in Note 26.
Sensitivities The tables below indicate the stand alone impact of changes to certain key variables on long term assurance business, this includes the impact on long term insurance contracts, investment contracts with DPF, value of in-force long term assurance business and related financial assets in support of the long term business but excluding those relating to investment contract liabilities.
2007 Increase decrease in pro t Change in after tax variable m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 23 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 106 Maintenance expenses fall and thereafter increase by the estimated expense in ation rate -10% 43 Mortality morbidity rates decrease across all non annuity policy types and age groups -5% 30 Mortality rates decrease across all annuity policy types and age groups -5% 20 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts over the duration of their lives excluding paid-up policies -10% 77 2006 Increase decrease in pro t Change in after tax variable m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 24 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 77 Maintenance expenses fall and thereafter increase by the estimated expense in ation rate -10% 44 Mortality morbidity rates decrease across all non annuity policy types and age groups -5% 27 Mortality rates decrease across all annuity policy types and age groups -5% 18 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts over the duration of their lives excluding paid-up policies -10% 64 Although the tables above demonstrate the impact of individual variable changes, in practice due to the correlation between certain variables change in one variable would normally be expected to have an impact on other assumptions.
It should also be noted that in some instances these sensitivities are non-linear.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 189 25 Other Assets Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Reinsurance assets Note 26 963 874 Group relief recoverable 380 291 Other assets 6,505 3,797 15 53 7,468 4,671 395 344 26 Insurance Contract Liabilities 2007 2006 Reinsurance Reinsurance Gross assets Net of Gross assets Net of liabilities Note 25 reinsurance liabilities Note 25 reinsurance m m m m m m Long term insurance contract liabilities Insurance contracts within the with-pro t fund 5,640 5,640 5,934 5,934 Insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds 20,274 956 19,318 18,179 864 17,315 25,914 956 24,958 24,113 864 23,249 General insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums 652 7 645 615 9 606 Claims provisions including claims incurred but not reported IBNR 298 298 249 1 248 950 7 943 864 10 854 Total insurance contract liabilities 26,864 963 25,901 24,977 874 24,103 The change in insurance contract liabilities net of reinsurance is analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 24,103 21,082 Changes in assumptions 279 116 Additional insurance liabilities arising 1,895 3,178 Exchange translation 182 41 At 31 December 25,901 24,103 189 190 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Long Term Insurance Contract Liabilities The Group principally writes the following long term contracts which contain insurance risk.
The contracts also contain financial risk.
The principal risks associated with each type of contract are described below.
Life assurance The policyholder is insured against death or permanent disability usually for predetermined amounts principally mortality and disability risk.
Annuity products The policyholder is entitled to payments for the duration of their life and is therefore insured for living longer than expected principally longevity and market risk.
With-pro t business The primary purpose of these products is to provide a long term smoothed investment vehicle to the policyholder, protecting them against short term market uctuations.
The policyholder is also usually insured against death and the policy may carry an annuity option at maturity principally market risk.
Unit-linked business The primary purpose of these products is to provide an investment vehicle but where the policyholder is also insured against death principally market risk.
Additional information on the risk associated with the long term assurance business is set out on pages 99 to 101 of the Risk Management report.
The table below sets out the extent of the above exposures based on the carrying value of the liabilities: 2007 2006 Reinsurers Net Reinsurers Net Insurance share of insurance Insurance share of insurance contract contract contract contract contract contract liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m Life assurance 327 28 299 684 80 604 Annuity products 2,041 2,041 2,061 2,061 With-pro t 5,640 5,640 5,934 5,934 Unit-linked 17,893 921 16,972 15,430 784 14,646 Other 13 7 6 4 4 Total 25,914 956 24,958 24,113 864 23,249 Guarantees and options The products with the most signi cant guarantees and options are certain with-pro t bonds which allow surrenders at speci ed dates without market value adjustments being applied and withdrawals to be taken without penalty: certain contracts which provide guaranteed minimum levels of return on policyholder contributions made to the contract: and certain pension contracts containing an option that allows the policyholder to take an annuity bene t at any time between their 60th and 75th birthday on annuity rates that were guaranteed at the outset of the contract.
There are no other material guarantees and options within the long term assurance business other than those discussed above.
For contracts where there are guarantees and options the most signi cant factor in determining the cost of the guarantees and options other than economic conditions in which the option or guarantee has value is the actual take up rate of options.
The most signi cant factor in determining take up rates is customer behaviour which is in uenced by a number of factors including the value of the contract, and the financial circumstances of the individuals.
The financial impact is dependent on the value of corresponding investments, interest rates and longevity at the time of the claim.
In order to measure the risk of these guarantees, the Group makes use of statistical modelling techniques where appropriate to determine the possible and most likely range of outcomes.
To help mitigate the risks, the Group makes use of matching techniques in order to hedge part of the expected cash ows arising under the guarantees in these contracts with financial instruments.
Experience and valuation rates of interest assumptions The assumptions used in the measurement of insurance liabilities are determined by the Board of Directors.
Material judgement is required in the choice of assumptions relating to insurance contracts.
The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the insurance contract liabilities are set out by type of business below.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 191 Mortality and longevity rates The process used to determine the Groups mortality and longevity assumptions starts with an internal investigation of the Groups actual mortality experience over the last five years.
This investigation is updated regularly.
The results of this investigation are considered in the context of a number of factors including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period being considered, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
The rates derived from the Groups experience are adjusted in the light of the factors mentioned above to derive a set of best estimate rates.
No deliberate margins for prudence are introduced as part of this process.
These best estimate assumptions will be used in the projection of best estimate cash ows, such as the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business.
For insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds, the liabilities are assessed on a prudent basis and hence the rates used need to include a margin for adverse deviation that will increase liabilities and provide some protection from the risk that actual experience is worse than the best estimate assumptions.
For insurance contracts within the with-pro t fund, the liabilities are required to be determined using the realistic or best estimate assumptions.
The mortality tables used are as follows: 2007 2006 Non-pro t policies Pension annuities Males 98% PMA92 mc 95% PMA92 mc 1.5% minimum improvement Females 80% PFA92 75% mc 80% PFA92 75% mc 1% minimum improvement Term assurances Males 24% 79% TM92 43% 145% TM92 Females 26% 95% TF92 55% 160% TF92 Unit-linked policies Life assurance and pensions 58% 143% AM92 AF92 60% 150% AM92 AF92 With-pro t policies Life assurance and pensions 49% 132% AM92 AF92 75% 85% AM92 AF92 For life assurance policies, increased mortality rates would lead to a larger number of claims and claims occurring sooner than anticipated, increasing the expenditure and reducing pro ts.
For annuity contracts, the opposite is true.
Lapse and surrender rates persistency A lapse occurs when the termination of a contract results from the non-payment of premiums due under that contract.
A surrender occurs when a policyholder decides to voluntarily terminate their contract.
Paid-up and partial surrender are additional forms of lapse and surrender.
The process used to determine contract lapse and surrender rates is similar to that used to determine mortality and longevity rates.
The previous experience of the Group from 2004 to 2006 is analysed using statistical techniques.
As the experience can vary considerably between different product types and for contracts which have been in force for different periods, the internal analysis breaks the data down into broadly homogeneous groups for the purposes of this analysis.
This analysis is updated regularly.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses in order to determine a best estimate view of what persistency experience will be in the future.
In determining this best estimate view, a number of factors are considered including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have 191 occurred during the period being considered, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
For insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds, the liabilities are calculated assuming a prudent scenario.
Lapse and surrender rates vary according to both contract type and the length of time a contract has been in force.
No lapse and surrender rates have been presented because it is impractical to summarise the information in a meaningful manner.
The impact of an increase in lapse and surrender rates on contracts without guarantees and options would most likely result in a decrease in pro ts, as the contracts would no longer be in force to generate cash ows in the future.
However, for certain policies with valuable guarantees and options principally within the with-pro t fund, increased lapse and surrender rates may be bene cial to the Group as the policyholder loses the ability to exercise the potentially valuable guarantee or option when their policy terminates.
192 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Valuation rate of interest The valuation rate of interest is the rate used to discount the projected cash ows on the contracts in order to determine the value of the liabilities as at the reporting date.
For insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds, the liabilities are calculated using an estimate of the prudent valuation rate of interest determined according to speci c rules set out by the Financial Services Authority.
For insurance contracts within the with-pro t fund, the liabilities are calculated using a realistic or market consistent valuation rate of interest based on the prevailing economic conditions at the time of the liability assessment without further adjustment.
The valuation rates of interest used are as follows: 2007 2006 Non-pro t policies Pension annuities 4.1% 5.3% 4.4% 4.8% Term assurances 3.5% 4.4% 3.0% 3.75% Unit-linked policies Life assurance 3.3% 4.0% 3.0% 3.5% Pensions 4.1% 4.9% 3.75% 4.4% In isolation, an increase in the valuation rate of interest decreases liabilities leading to an increase in pro ts or vice versa.
Discretionary participating bonus rates The distributions to policyholders with insurance and investment contracts with DPF are determined by the Board of Directors of subsidiaries based on local regulations and in line with arrangements in individual policy contracts.
For insurance and investment contracts with DPF in the with-pro t fund, the distributions to policyholders are governed by the funds Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
No material changes were made to the distribution policies for insurance and investment contracts with DPF during the year under review.
Changes in experience and valuation rate of interest assumptions There were a number of changes made to assumptions used to calculate the value of policyholder liabilities in both 2007 and 2006.
The most signi cant changes to the liability valuations were due to changes in valuation rates of interest, which were updated to re ect the prevailing economic conditions at the balance sheet date.
This has the effect of decreasing both the value in-force long term assurance business asset and the long term insurance contract liabilities.
General Insurance Contract Liabilities The insurance businesss general insurance claim provisions including IBNR by policy type are set out in the table below: 2007 2006 Reinsurers share of Reinsurers Gross claims claims Net claims Gross claims share of claims Net claims provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions m m m m m m Repayment insurance 94 94 110 110 Household insurance 192 192 135 135 Other insurance 12 12 4 1 3 Total 298 298 249 1 248 Assumptions For general insurance contracts, claims provisions comprising provisions for claims reported by policyholder and IBNR claims are established to cover the ultimate costs of settling the liabilities in respect of claims that have occurred and are estimated based on known facts and anticipated experience at the balance sheet date.
The provisions are re ned as part of a regular ongoing process as claims experience develops, certain claims are settled and further claims are reported.
Outstanding claims provisions are not discounted for the time value of money.
The measurement process primarily includes projection of future claims costs through a combination of actuarial and statistical projection techniques.
In certain cases, where there is a lack of reliable historical data on which to estimate claims development, relevant benchmarks of similar business are used in developing claims estimates.
The principal assumption underlying the estimates is the general insurance businesss past claims development experience.
This includes assumptions in respect of average claims costs, claims handling costs, claims in ation factors, and claim numbers for each accident year.
Judgement is used to assess the extent to which external factors such as judicial decisions and government legislation affect the estimates.
Additional information on the Groups general insurance risk is given on pages 101 to 102 of the Risk Management report.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 193 27 Investment Contract Liabilities 2007 2006 m m Investment contract liabilities 40,387 34,806 Investment contract liabilities with DPF 7,192 8,694 47,579 43,500 Investment contracts related to collective investment schemes 5,249 5,986 Total investment contract liabilities 52,828 49,486 28 Unallocated Surplus 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 1,543 974 Change in the year 50 569 At 31 December 1,493 1,543 The nature of certain insurance and investment contracts with DPF within the with-pro t fund is such that the allocation of the surplus assets between the policyholder and the Group has not been determined at the end of the accounting period.
The unallocated surplus comprises these surplus assets and is deemed to be a liability until allocation to the appropriate party has been determined.
In accordance with the requirements of FRS 27, the best estimate of the Groups share of future bonuses has been recognised as part of the unallocated surplus.
Sensitivities The table below indicates the stand alone impact of changes to certain key variables that have the greatest impact on the Groups with-pro t fund.
These are shown with reference to the unallocated surplus and the underlying with-pro t liabilities: 2007 Increase Impact on Change in decrease in unallocated variable liabilities surplus m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 94 29 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 652 257 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts excluding paid-up policies -10% 16 16 2006 Increase Impact on Change in decrease in unallocated variable liabilities surplus m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 142 26 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 757 201 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts excluding paid-up policies -10% 16 16 Although the tables above demonstrate the impact of individual variable changes, in practice due to the correlation between certain variables a change in one variable would normally be expected to have an impact on other assumptions.
193 194 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Post Retirement Bene ts The Group operates fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution pension schemes, as well as fide ned bene t post retirement medical and concessionary mortgage plans.
The charge for the year in respect of the pension schemes is 206m 2006 208m comprising 141m 2006 161m for fide ned bene t schemes, 60m 2006 44m for fide ned contribution schemes and 5m 2006 3m for other post retirement bene ts.
fide ned contribution post employment bene t plans The principal Group fide ned contribution plan is the HBOS Group Money Purchase Scheme.
It is funded by contributions from colleagues and the Group.
New colleagues are automatically enrolled in the scheme unless they opt out.
The level of Group contributions for the majority of members who contribute at the core rate of 4% is 6%.
In addition, if members wish to pay more, then the Group will also make further contributions in respect of the members first 4% of additional contributions.
For the majority of members, stepping their contribution rate to 8% will result in the Group stepping up its rate to 12%.
Higher levels of Group contributions are available to more senior colleagues.
Alternatively, members may elect to pay a lower contribution of 2% and receive Group contributions at 3%.
These were the levels of contributions for colleagues and Group for the majority of the existing members at April 2006 and other colleagues who were automatically enrolled into the plan.
The respective default rates for colleague and Group contributions have been increased to 3% and 4.5% in 2007 and will be increased to 4% and 6% in 2008.
The expense of all the Group fide ned contribution plans for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 60m 2006 44m.
fide ned bene t post employment bene t plans The Group provides several fide ned bene t plans.
The main scheme is the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme HBOS FSPS which is a closed funded scheme.
It was formed in July 2006 through the merger of the Groups four main UK fide ned bene t schemes.
Accordingly disclosures prior to the date of the merger have been re-analysed to show pro forma comparatives for the HBOS FSPS based on the comparative disclosures of the four legacy schemes.
Separate disclosures for all other fide ned bene t pension plans within the Group are made under the heading Other Schemes.
These contain a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes and arrangements.
Separate disclosures are also made on a combined basis for the unfunded post retirement medical plans and concessionary mortgage plans under the heading Other Post Retirement Bene ts.
The Company is the sponsor of the HBOS FSPS, the unfunded scheme which is included within the Other Schemes and the Other Post Retirement Bene ts.
The net liabilities of these schemes are 263m, 44m and 53m respectively totalling 360m 2006 778m, 44m and 55m respectively totalling 877m.
Accordingly the disclosures relating to the HBOS FSPS and Other Post Retirement Bene ts are also those of the Company.
The unfunded scheme in the Company had a liability of 44m at the start of the year 2006 42m and 44m at the year end 2006 44m.
The pension expense relating to the unfunded scheme in the Company is 2m 2006 3m and is comprised of an interest cost and current service cost of 2m and nil respectively 2006 2m and 1m.
In addition bene ts paid by the Company in respect of the unfunded scheme during the year amounted to 2m 2006 1m.
The unfunded pension liabilities have been secured by assets held by the Group.
These assets, comprising listed investment securities held at a value of 56m at 31 December 2007 2006 36m, are included in the Groups investment securities and would only be available to members in the event of certain contingencies, such as the failure to pay bene ts.
The assets of the Groups funded schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds, which are independent of the Groups own assets, to meet the long term pension liabilities of past and present employees.
The trustees of the schemes are required to act with regard to the best interests of the schemes bene ciaries and a number of trustees are nominated or elected by the members of the schemes.
The trustees, in consultation with the Group, set the schemes investment strategies and, with the agreement of the Group, set the level of contributions to be made to the schemes.
The liabilities of the fide ned bene t schemes are measured by discounting the estimated future cash ows to be paid out by the schemes using the projected unit method.
This method is an accrued bene t valuation technique that makes allowances for projected earnings.
The Group estimates the average duration of the liabilities of the fide ned bene t scheme to be 23 years.
Following its formation in 2006, the first funding valuation and the most recent published valuation of the HBOS FSPS was carried out as at 31 December 2006 by an independent actuary.
The financial assumptions adopted within this valuation were based upon the economic conditions prevailing at the date of valuation.
This resulted in the Group adjusting the rate of regular contributions to around 23% of pensionable salaries with effect from July 2007.
In the light of the fide cit of 95m under the assumptions agreed for the valuation, the Company also agreed to make annual fide cit contributions of 50m per annum for each of the years 2007 to 2010 inclusive.
The Company has paid 100m in respect of the first two years contribution during the current financial year.
The level of contributions payable to the scheme is expected to be reviewed again following completion of the next funding valuation, due as at 31 December 2009.
On 1 January 2008, the Clerical Medical International Pension Scheme, which is a funded fide ned bene t plan, included within Other Schemes is merging with the HBOS FSPS.
In anticipation of this, the Company has paid a fide cit reduction contribution of 5m during the year as part of the merger agreement.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 195 The Groups net post retirement bene t liabilities in respect of its fide ned bene t plans are analysed as follows: 2007 2006 Other Post Other Post HBOS Other Retirement HBOS Other Retirement FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total m m m m m m m m fide ned bene t obligations 7,072 551 53 7,676 6,952 549 55 7,556 Fair value of assets 6,809 520 7,329 6,174 470 6,644 Net liabilities 263 31 53 347 778 79 55 912 Movements in the net post retirement bene t liabilities were as follows: At 1 January 778 79 55 912 1,701 91 49 1,841 Pension expense 131 10 5 146 148 13 3 164 Group contributions 250 42 292 826 31 857 Bene ts paid directly by the Group 1 2 3 1 2 3 Actuarial gains losses 396 15 5 416 245 7 5 233 At 31 December 263 31 53 347 778 79 55 912 Movements in the fide ned bene t obligations were as follows: At 1 January 6,952 549 55 7,556 6,635 500 49 7,184 Current service cost 210 12 2 224 210 9 1 220 Plan participant contributions 23 1 24 21 3 24 Interest cost 358 28 3 389 319 25 2 346 Bene ts paid 165 19 184 144 11 155 Bene ts paid directly by the Group 1 2 3 1 2 1 Net actuarial gains losses 311 24 5 340 96 32 5 59 Past service cost 5 1 6 7 1 8 Settlement curtailment 4 4 7 7 Foreign exchange translation 8 8 4 4 At 31 December 7,072 551 53 7,676 6,952 549 55 7,556 Movements in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: At 1 January 6,174 470 6,644 4,934 409 5,343 Actual return on plan assets 527 24 551 537 47 584 Group contributions 250 42 292 826 31 857 Plan participant contributions 23 1 24 21 3 24 Bene ts paid 165 19 184 144 11 155 Settlement curtailment 6 6 7 7 Foreign exchange translation 8 8 2 2 At 31 December 6,809 520 7,329 6,174 470 6,644 The fair value of plan assets at 31 December comprise the following: Equity instruments 3,940 260 4,200 4,190 277 4,467 Bonds 2,478 129 2,607 1,636 58 1,694 With-pro t investments 50 50 54 54 Property 298 8 306 270 270 Other assets 93 73 166 78 81 159 195 Total value of assets 6,809 520 7,329 6,174 470 6,644 196 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Post Retirement Bene ts continued The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ending 31 December comprises: 2007 2006 Other Post Other Post HBOS Other Retirement HBOS Other Retirement FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total m m m m m m m m Current service cost 210 12 2 224 210 9 1 220 Interest cost 358 28 3 389 319 25 2 346 Expected return on assets 442 33 475 388 22 410 Settlement curtailment 2 2 Past service cost 5 1 6 7 1 8 Total expense 131 10 5 146 148 13 3 164 The actuarial gains losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense for the year ending 31 December comprises: 2007 2006 Other Post Other Post HBOS Other Retirement HBOS Other Retirement FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total m m m m m m m m Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 85 9 76 149 25 174 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 91 4 1 94 136 7 1 144 Gain loss from change in assumptions 402 28 4 434 40 39 6 85 Total actuarial gains losses 396 15 5 416 245 7 5 233 The Groups policy for recognising actuarial gains and losses is to take them directly to reserves in the period in which they arise.
A gain of 312m 2006 gain of 163m net of tax was recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in the year.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense at 31 December 2007 amount to a gain of 176m 2006 loss 136m net of tax.
The expected and actual returns on plan assets for the HBOS FSPS and other schemes is as follows: 2007 2006 HBOS Other HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Total FSPS Schemes Total m m m m m m Expected return on plan assets 442 33 475 388 22 410 Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 85 9 76 149 25 174 Actual return on plan assets 527 24 551 537 47 584 The history of experience adjustments for the HBOS FSPS and other schemes is as follows: 2007 2006 HBOS Other HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Total FSPS Schemes Total m m m m m m fide ned bene t obligations 7,072 551 7,623 6,952 549 7,501 Fair value of plan assets 6,809 520 7,329 6,174 470 6,644 Net liabilities 263 31 294 778 79 857 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities: Loss gain m 91 4 95 136 7 143 Percentage of plan liabilities % 1 1 1 2 1 2 Experience adjustments on plan assets: Gain loss m 85 9 76 149 25 174 Percentage of plan assets % 1 2 1 2 5 3 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 197 2005 2004 HBOS Other HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Total FSPS Schemes Total m m m m m m fide ned bene t obligations 6,635 500 7,135 5,447 452 5,899 Fair value of plan assets 4,934 409 5,343 3,831 352 4,183 Net liabilities 1,701 91 1,792 1,616 100 1,716 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities: Loss gain m 83 7 90 65 22 43 Percentage of plan liabilities % 1 1 1 1 5 1 Experience adjustments on plan assets: Gain m 581 10 591 27 22 49 Percentage of plan assets % 12 2 11 1 6 1 The mortality assumptions used in 2007 are unchanged from those adopted in 2006.
For current and deferred pensioners table PNA00 projected to 2006 using the base level of improvements from the 92 series, with subsequent future improvements in line with the 92 series medium cohort projections have been used with a 10% loading to the female table reducing life expectancy.
This is to align it with actual experience for the schemes pensioners.
For active members table A92ULT multiplied by 70% has been used.
The net actuarial gain on the fide ned bene t obligations of 59m in 2006 includes a loss of 348m in respect of changes in life expectancy arising from the use of these revised mortality tables, offset by gains arising from changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions.
The net actuarial losses of the fide ned bene t obligations of 830m in 2005 principally arose from the change in the discount rate assumption.
The discount rate is based on an average yield from long-dated AA corporate bonds which fell signi cantly in 2005.
Summary of assumptions and membership data The following assumptions and data have been used in respect of the fide ned bene t pension schemes: HBOS FSPS Other Schemes 2008 2007 2006 2005 2008 2007 2006 2005 Actuarial assumptions at beginning of the year Discount rate % 5.70 5.15 4.85 5.45 5.70 5.15 4.85 5.45 RPI in ation rate % 3.4 3.0 2.8 2.8 3.4 3.0 2.8 2.8 a Expected return on plan assets % 6.78 7.18 7.15 7.71 6.66 6.86 6.29 6.20 b Salary increases % 3.9 3.5 3.3 3.8 3.9 3.5 3.3 3.8 c Pension increases % 3.3 3.0 2.8 2.8 3.3 3.0 2.8 2.8 Life expectancy at age 60 years Retired members Males 26 26 23 23 26 26 23 23 Females 27 27 26 26 27 27 26 26 Non-retired members Males 27 27 24 24 27 27 24 24 Females 29 29 27 27 29 29 27 27 a The expected return on plan assets is the weighted average of the expected returns of the main asset classes.
These returns re ect a combination of historical performance, the forward looking views of financial markets, as suggested by the yields available, and the views of investment organisations.
For 2008 the expected returns are 8.2% on equities, 4.5% on government bonds, 5.6% on corporate bonds and 6.8% on property.
b In addition to the general assumed rate of salary increases, there is a separate assumed salary scale of increases due to promotions and increasing seniority.
c The pension increase is on the excess over the Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
Pensions which are guaranteed to increase at a rate of at least 3% per annum have been assumed to increase at 3.6% per annum for the end of year calculations 3.40% per annum for 2006 and 3.25% per annum for previous calculations.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Post Retirement Bene ts continued The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the other post retirement bene ts are the discount rate, which is the same as that used for the pension schemes and the medical cost trend rate which has been assumed to be the same as the discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities, showing the increase in fide ned bene t obligations at 31 December 2007, is set out below: Factor HBOS FSPS Other Schemes Change in assumption Increase 2007 Increase 2006 Increase 2007 Increase 2006 Discount rate decrease 0.1% 2.3% 2.3% 2.2% 2.2% Rate of in ation increase 0.1% 2.3% 2.2% 2.2% 2.2% Rate of salary growth increase 0.1% 0.5% 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% Life expectancy at age 60 increase by 1 year 2.7% 2.7% 2.5% 2.4% 30 Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement The Capital Position Statement sets out the total capital resources relating to the life assurance business of the Group.
The statement shows the shareholders funds in the long term assurance business together with the adjustments required to reconcile these amounts with the amounts determined in accordance with the regulatory reporting framework.
2007 CMIGL UK UK life Overseas UK with-pro t non-pro t shareholder life Total life fund funds funds business business m m m m m Total shareholders funds 4,004 40 736 4,780 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Less value of in-force long term assurance business Note 24 2,476 708 3,184 Less purchased value of in-force investment business Note 19 320 1 321 a Add unallocated surplus Note 28 1,493 1,493 Less shareholders share of realistic liabilities 81 81 Deferred taxation 1,102 135 1,237 Other adjustments 651 55 87 509 1,412 1,659 95 249 3,415 Other qualifying capital: Loan capital 1,039 1,039 c Total capital available 1,412 1,659 1,134 249 4,454 The Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are allocated as follows: Insurance contract liabilities Note 26 5,640 17,764 2,510 25,914 b Investment contract liabilities Note 27 7,192 33,890 6,497 47,579 Unallocated surplus Note 28 1,493 1,493 a The with-pro t fund unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis.
b Excludes investment contract liabilities related to the collective investment schemes.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 199 2006 CMIGL UK UK life Overseas UK with-pro t non-pro t shareholder life Total life fund funds funds business business m m m m m Total shareholders funds 4,119 279 710 4,550 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Less value of in-force long term assurance business Note 24 2,488 616 3,104 Less purchased value of in-force investment business Note 19 350 1 351 a Add unallocated surplus Note 28 1,543 1,543 Less shareholders share of realistic liabilities 107 107 Deferred taxation 1,102 152 1,254 Other adjustments 728 5 12 745 1,436 1,655 284 233 3,040 Other qualifying capital: Loan capital 962 962 c Total capital available 1,436 1,655 678 233 4,002 The Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are allocated as follows: Insurance contract liabilities Note 26 5,934 15,982 2,197 24,113 b Investment contract liabilities Note 27 8,694 31,630 3,176 43,500 Unallocated surplus Note 28 1,543 1,543 a The with-pro t fund unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis.
The Group has one UK with-pro t fund, the Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited CMIGL with-pro t fund, which is shown separately in the Capital Position Statement.
The Groups UK non-pro t businesses are aggregated as well as the Groups overseas life businesses for the purpose of this statement.
For the Groups UK with-pro t fund, available capital and capital requirements are determined under the twin peaks assessment as prescribed by the regulations of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Under this assessment the available capital is determined by comparing admissible assets with the mathematical reserves determined on the regulatory peak basis.
This is adjusted by the withpro t insurance capital component WPICC to arrive at the available capital position for the purpose of this disclosure.
The capital requirement, adjusting for the WPICC, consists of the long term insurance capital requirement LTICR.
The WPICC is determined under the twin peaks test by comparing the regulatory peak with the realistic peak.
If the latter is more onerous then this gives rise to a WPICC.
At 31 December 2007 and at 31 December 2006, the realistic peak was more onerous.
Accordingly, the available capital of the with-pro t fund is adjusted by the WPICC and presented on a realistic basis.
As more fully described in Note 28, the unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis in accordance with FRS 27.
UK shareholders funds, UK non-pro t funds and overseas businesses are shown separately in the Capital Position Statement.
There are no formal arrangements, other than those relating to the CMIGL with-pro t fund described below, for shareholders funds or the surplus within the individual life funds to be used to support other businesses or life funds within the Group.
However, as described below, subject to certain conditions being met, the available capital within the individual funds is potentially transferable to other parts of the Group.
However, the capital within each fund is generally subject to restrictions as to its availability to meet requirements that arise elsewhere in the Group, including other long term businesses.
In particular, for sections in the Capital Position Statement where aggregate capital amounts have been shown, such as for UK non-pro t funds and overseas business, there are no prior arrangements in place to allow the capital to move freely between entities within these sections.
Restrictions to the application of capital 199 Restrictions apply to the transfer of assets from any long term fund.
In particular, at all times, each long term fund must maintain an excess of assets over liabilities.
Transfers of assets from a long term fund can only be made once management are satis ed that they have met the relevant requirements of the fund.
The principal restrictions are: a CMIGL with-pro t fund The unallocated surplus held in the fund can only be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
Shareholders are entitled to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses.
Such distributions would also be subject to a tax charge.
The use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms of the scheme of demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management of the fund.
Capital within the Clerical Medical non-pro t fund is available to meet the with-pro t funds capital requirements.
There are no other arrangements that provide capital support to the fund.
200 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement continued b UK non-pro t funds Except as above, the capital held in the fund is attributable to the shareholders and, subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of these businesses, this capital is potentially available to meet capital requirements elsewhere in the Group.
Any transfer of the surplus would give rise to a tax charge.
c Overseas life business These include several smaller life companies outside the UK.
In all cases the available capital resources are subject to local regulatory requirements including Germany, Ireland and Australia.
The available capital held in each company is potentially available to meet the capital requirements in other parts of the Group, subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
Target capital For the UK with-pro t fund, the Group is required to hold suf cient capital to meet FSA requirements, based on the risk capital margin RCM determined in accordance with the FSAs regulatory rules under its realistic capital regime.
The determination of the RCM is based on the impact of speci ed changes in market prices of the fund assets as well as policyholder behaviour, taking into account the actions management would have taken in the event of the particular adverse changes.
For UK non-pro t business, the relevant capital requirement is the LTICR and resilience capital requirement determined in accordance with FSA regulations.
Under the FSAs Individual Capital Adequacy Standards framework, each company is required to carry out its own assessment of the capital required to meet its liabilities in all reasonably foreseeable circumstances known as the individual capital assessment ICA.
The ICA takes into account certain business risks not re ected in the FSAs other capital requirements.
Management intends to maintain surplus capital in excess of the various regulatory requirements, including the ICA, in order to absorb changes in both the underlying businesses and the capital requirements over the short term.
At 31 December 2007 the provisional available capital, excluding the with-pro t fund, was 468% 2006 462% of the provisional LTICR and resilience capital requirements of 650m 2006 555m.
At 31 December 2007, the total provisional available capital including the with-pro t fund on a realistic basis was 399% 2006 354% of the provisional LTICR and resilience capital requirements of 1,116m 2006 1,131m.
Changes in capital The principal factors that resulted in changes to the total provisional available capital are set out in the table below: CMIGL UK UK life Overseas UK with-pro t non-pro t shareholder life Total life fund funds funds business business m m m m m At 1 January 2006 876 1,645 793 223 3,537 a Changes in non-investment assumptions 10 5 5 10 b Investment markets and changes in investment assumptions 83 44 11 3 119 c New business 331 27 358 d Other experience 487 192 4 81 756 e Transfers of capital and dividends 100 100 42 42 At 31 December 2006 1,436 1,655 678 233 4,002 Impact of adopting PS06 14 279 279 a Changes in non-investment assumptions 15 42 59 1 85 b Investment markets and changes in investment assumptions 112 128 10 26 c New business 423 138 561 d Other experience 103 548 31 206 888 e Transfers of capital and dividends 570 366 61 265 At 31 December 2007 1,412 1,659 1,134 249 4,454 a There were no signi cant changes to the non-investment assumptions during the year.
b Net positive market conditions led to an increase in the value of securities resulting in an increase to the total capital available.
c The amount of capital has been reduced by the increase in liabilities and new business strain excess of acquisition costs over margins due to signi cant volumes of new long term assurance business written since the last balance sheet date.
d This is the effect of current year experience on in-force blocks of business.
e This represents the dividends paid by, or transfers of capital to and from, the funds during the year.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 201 31 Deferred Tax 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax liabilities 2,945 3,349 Deferred tax assets 415 758 Net position 2,530 2,591 At 31 December 2007 a deferred tax liability of 251m 2006 214m relating to investments in subsidiaries has not been recognised because the Company controls whether or not the liability will be incurred and it is satis ed that it will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
As a result of the Finance Act 2007, the main UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 30% to 28% in April 2008.
UK deferred tax balances that are not expected to have been realised by April 2008 have been restated at the rate of 28%.
In addition, the German corporation tax rate reduced from 25% to 15% in January 2008.
The movement in the net position is as follows: 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 2,591 1,751 Charge to income for the year Note 9 199 661 Credit charge to equity for the year Note 9 86 139 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in income Note 9 178 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in equity Note 9 1 Transfer to current tax 37 Acquisitions 60 Other movements 3 57 At 31 December 2,530 2,591 Analysed as follows: 2007 Available Long term Effective Capital for sale Cash ow assurance interest allowances investments hedges business rate Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 1,112 96 182 1,738 131 90 3,349 Charge credit to income for the year 31 9 44 29 88 37 Credit charge to equity for the year 65 182 5 1 243 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in income 76 101 7 12 196 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in equity 7 7 Other movements 7 12 3 3 5 At 31 December 2007 1,060 15 1,610 98 162 2,945 2007 Cash ow Employee hedges bene ts Provisions Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 1 January 2007 284 213 261 758 201 Charge to income for the year 46 36 80 162 Credit charge to equity for the year 37 130 64 157 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in income 1 9 8 18 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in equity 3 5 8 Other movements 4 6 2 At 31 December 2007 34 98 168 115 415 Deferred tax assets in respect of employee bene ts primarily relate to retirement bene t plans.
Deferred tax assets relating to share based compensation are included in other.
In the Company there is a deferred tax asset of 85m 2006 254m.
The asset arose during 2006 and is primarily in respect of employee bene ts following the creation of the HBOS FSPS and the transfer of the net post retirement liabilities to the Company.
202 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Deferred Tax continued 2006 Available Long term Effective Capital for sale Cash ow assurance interest allowances investments hedges business rate Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 928 65 57 1,416 122 171 2,759 Charge credit to income for the year 112 7 294 9 75 347 Charge to equity for the year 20 125 145 Transfers to current tax 4 33 37 Acquisitions 85 85 Other movements 13 28 39 24 At 31 December 2006 1,112 96 182 1,738 131 90 3,349 Employee 2006 bene ts Provisions Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 1 January 2006 541 294 173 1,008 Charge to income for the year 189 84 41 314 Charge credit to equity for the year 56 62 6 Acquisitions 25 25 Other movements 12 3 42 33 At 31 December 2006 284 213 261 758 32 Other Liabilities Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Unclaimed shares 151 152 151 152 Other liabilities 4,921 7,019 53 61 5,072 7,171 204 213 Unclaimed shares comprise the net sale proceeds of certain Halifax Group Limited formerly Halifax Group plc ordinary shares which, following the Halifax Group restructuring which took effect on 1 June 1999, represented Halifax plc ordinary shares.
These shares were issued to meet claims for Halifax plc ordinary shares from qualifying members of Halifax Building Society and others following the transfer of business from Halifax Building Society to Halifax plc in 1997.
This liability also includes the related unclaimed dividends up to the date of sale and the unclaimed capital payments arising from the Halifax Group restructuring in 1999.
These amounts are being held on behalf of the persons who would have been entitled to claim the shares before they were sold.
Amounts representing the sale proceeds, together with the unclaimed capital payments, can be claimed during a period of nine years from the date of sale 30 August 2001 after which time they will be forfeited.
Amounts representing the related unclaimed dividends can be claimed during the period of twelve years from the date of the resolution for payment of each dividend, after which time they will be forfeited.
Following an internal reorganisation on 1 July 2002, responsibility for these balances was assumed by the Company.
33 Provisions Regulatory Other provisions provisions Total m m m At 1 January 2007 131 70 201 Exchange translation 3 3 Charge to administrative expenses 122 17 139 Utilised in year 147 21 168 At 31 December 2007 106 69 175 Regulatory provisions are established when a legal or constructive obligation exists and represent the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past product sales where sales processes have been fide cient or where fees and premiums have been overcharged.
Other provisions include property-related costs in respect of surplus leased space that amounted to 27m 2006 27m at the year end, provisions for long term and annual leave, provisions in respect of legal liabilities and for obligations under reward programmes.
The timing of cash out ows for customer driven ows can be uncertain and depend on the rate at which claims are received and processed.
It is estimated that 35m 2006 95m of the outstanding provisions will be settled within the next year.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 203 34 Debt Securities in Issue 2007 2006 At fair At fair value through At value through At the income amortised the income amortised statement cost Total statement cost Total m m m m m m Bonds and medium term notes 1,842 71,976 73,818 3,260 57,383 60,643 Other debt securities 132,702 132,702 123,007 123,007 1,842 204,678 206,520 3,260 180,390 183,650 The Group issues debt securities that are secured against loans and advances, debt securities and certain other assets of the Group principally from special purpose entities.
At 31 December 2007 such debt securities in issue amount to 57,716m 2006 63,905m of which 11,954m 2006 19,010m is issued by the Grampian conduit and 137m 2006 835m by the Landale conduit.
In addition the Group has issued 24,780m 2006 16,826m of covered bonds.
Debt securities in issue measured at amortised cost include 38,036m 2006 39,181m of securities subject to fair value hedge designation, such as debt securities relating to securitisation and covered bonds, the carrying value of which has been adjusted to re ect the fair value of the risk being hedged.
35 Other Borrowed Funds Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Preferred securities 4,973 3,191 Preference shares 1,571 1,128 1,571 1,128 Subordinated liabilities: Dated 10,964 8,656 7,253 4,683 Undated 6,745 6,717 6,679 6,515 24,253 19,692 15,503 12,326 Group 2007 2006 Preferred securities m m US$750m 6.071% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each 374 381 US$1,000m 6.85% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each 499 509 600m 6.461% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series A of 1,000 each 600 600 250m 8.117% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 1 of 1,000 each Class A 250 250 150m 7.754% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 2 of 1,000 each Class B 150 150 245m 7.881% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 245 245 415m Fixed-to-Floating Rate Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 305 278 750m 4.939% Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities 551 503 285m Junior Perpetual Preferred Securities 285 2bn 6.0064 6.0895% Fixed Rate Perpetual Securities 2,000 Other Preferred Securities 4 12 US$45m Preferred Securities 23 Unamortised issue costs 24 25 Accrued interest 36 33 Fair value hedge adjustments 17 53 4,973 3,191 203 On 21 June 2007 Fortrose Investments Ltd, a subsidiary, issued 2,000m of 6.0064 6.0895% Fixed Rate Perpetual Securities.
Interest is payable two monthly in arrears, and the step up in rate occurs in March 2008.
During 2006 Castlemill Investments Ltd, a subsidiary, issued 285m of Junior Perpetual Preferred Securities and other subsidiaries issued Preferred Securities totalling 8m and US$45m, all of which were redeemed during 2007.
On 16 May 2006 HBOS Capital Funding No.
3 L. P. a subsidiary, issued 750m 4.939% Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities.
The securities pay interest annually in arrears until 23 May 2016 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 1.37% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Group has the option to redeem these securities on 23 May 2016 and quarterly thereafter.
204 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35 Other Borrowed Funds continued Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 Preference shares m m m m 300m 9 1 4% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 300 300 300 300 100m 9 3 4% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 100 100 100 100 US$750m 6.413% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 Series A preference shares 374 382 374 382 US$750m 5.92% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 Series B preference shares 374 382 374 382 US$750m 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating rate US$1 preference shares 374 374 Unamortised issue costs 9 8 9 8 Accrued interest 27 24 27 24 Fair value hedge adjustments 31 52 31 52 1,571 1,128 1,571 1,128 The US$750m 6.413% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Series A preference shares, the US$750m 5.92% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Series B preference shares and the US$750m 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating Rate preference shares have been issued in the form of American Depository Receipts.
On 21 May 2007 HBOS plc issued 7,500 American Depository Receipts representing US$750m 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 preference shares.
These are Tier I non-innovative non-equity preference shares that were issued at $1,000 per share.
Dividends are payable semi-annually in arrears until 21 May 2037 at which date the Company has the option to redeem them.
Thereafter, dividends are payable at a rate of three month LIBOR plus 1.27% per annum payable quarterly in arrears and can be redeemed by the Company on any dividend payment date.
Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 Dated subordinated liabilities m m m m 650m 4.75% Subordinated Bonds 2009 477 436 500m 5.50% Instruments 2009 367 335 US$500m Notes 2010 249 254 US$150m Notes 2011 75 76 750m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2012 551 503 US$450m Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 229 200m Floating Rate Step-up Callable Subordinated Notes 2012 200 12.8m 6.25% Instruments 2012 9 9 Aus$75m Callable Notes 2012 30 1,000m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Instruments 2013 734 671 325m 6.125% Notes 2013 239 218 US$1,000m 4.25% Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 2013 499 509 499 509 60bn 0.55% Subordinated Callable Notes 2013 267 257 267 257 US$500m Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 249 254 249 254 250m 11% Subordinated Bonds 2014 250 250 1,000m 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2015 734 671 734 671 500m Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 367 335 367 335 500m Subordinated Notes 2016 367 335 367 335 US$750m Notes 2016 374 382 374 382 1,000m Subordinated Lower Tier II Notes 2017 734 734 US$1,000m Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 499 499 Aus$400m Subordinated Callable Floating Rate Instruments 2017 175 175 Aus$200m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Instruments 2017 88 88 Can$500m Callable Fixed-to-Floating Rate Notes 2017 254 254 500m Lower Tier II Subordinated Notes 2017 500 500 150m 10.5% Subordinated Bonds 2018 150 150 250m 6.375% Instruments 2019 250 250 750m Callable Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 551 503 551 503 500m 9.375% Subordinated Bonds 2021 500 500 160m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2021 117 117 400m 6.45% Fixed Floating Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2023 294 268 750m Fixed Rate Step-up Subordinated Notes due 2030 551 503 551 503 US$750m 6.00% Subordinated Notes 2033 374 382 374 382 245m 7.881% Subordinated Extendable Maturity Notes 2048 245 245 415m Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Extendable Maturity Notes 2048 305 278 Unamortised premiums, discounts and issue costs 32 28 25 24 Accrued interest 221 203 79 61 Fair value hedge adjustments 70 29 51 8 10,964 8,656 7,253 4,683 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 205 During the year the following dated subordinated liabilities have been issued: On 20 March 2007 HBOS plc issued 1bn Subordinated Lower Tier II Notes at an issue price of 99.954% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month Euribor plus 0.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 21 March 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 0.7% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in March 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 21 March 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 27 April 2007 HBOS plc issued Aus$400m Subordinated Callable Floating Rate and Aus$200m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Australian Domestic Instruments at issue prices of 100% and 99.423% of the principal amount respectively.
The xed rate notes pay interest at a rate of 6.75% and the oating rate notes at three month AUD-BBR-BSW plus 0.26% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 1 May 2012 at which time both interest rates will become three month AUD-BBR-BSW plus 0.76% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in May 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 1 May 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 6 June 2007 HBOS plc issued US$1bn Subordinated Callable Notes at par.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month US$ LIBOR plus 0.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 6 September 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month US$ LIBOR plus 0.7% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in September 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 6 September 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 20 June 2007 HBOS plc issued Can$500m Callable Fixed-to-Floating Rate Notes at par.
The notes are subordinated and pay interest at a rate of 5.109% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 20 June 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month CAD-BA-CDOR plus 0.65% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in June 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 20 June 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 15 October 2007 HBOS plc issued 160m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes at par.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 5.374% per annum payable annually and mature on 30 June 2021.
On 17 October 2007 HBOS plc issued 500m Lower Tier II Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.9% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 6.305% per annum payable semi-annually until 18 October 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month LIBOR plus 1.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in October 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 18 October 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
During 2006 the following dated subordinated liabilities were issued: On 28 March 2006 HBOS plc issued 500m Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.735% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month Euribor plus 0.175% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 29 March 2011 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 0.675% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in March 2016.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 29 March 2011 and quarterly thereafter.
On 29 September 2006 HBOS plc issued US$750m Notes at an issue price of 99.868% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month US$ LIBOR plus 0.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 30 September 2011 at which time the interest rate will become three month LIBOR plus 0.7% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in September 2016.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 30 September 2011 and quarterly thereafter.
205 206 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35 Other Borrowed Funds continued No repayment, for whatever reason, of dated subordinated liabilities prior to its stated maturity and no purchase by the relevant entity of its subordinated debt may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
On a winding up of the Company or subsidiary, the claims of the holders of dated loan capital shall be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of all depositors and creditors of the Company or subsidiary undertaking, other than creditors whose claims are expressed to rank pari passu with, or junior to, the claims of the holders of the dated loan capital.
Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 Undated subordinated liabilities m m m m 500m Cumulative Callable Fixed-to-Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 500 500 500 500 US$750m 6.071% Undated Subordinated Fixed-to-Floating Rate Instruments 374 382 750m 4.875% Undated Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 551 503 551 503 500m Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 367 335 367 335 US$1,000m 5.375% Undated Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 499 509 499 509 750m Undated Subordinated Fixed-to-Floating Notes 551 503 551 503 600m 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 600 600 600 600 US$1,000m 6.85% Undated Subordinated Notes 499 509 600m Fixed-to-Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 600 600 500m Fixed-to-Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 367 335 367 335 300m Perpetual Regulatory Tier One Securities 300 300 300m 7.5% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 300 300 300 300 JPY 42.5bn 3.50% Undated Subordinated Yen Step-up Notes 189 182 189 182 US$300m Reset Notes 153 200m Perpetual Notes 200 200 200m 7.375% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 200 200 300m Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 220 201 220 201 US$250m Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes 125 127 150m Instruments 150 150 JPY 17bn Instruments 76 73 100m Instruments 100 100 100m 12% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 100 100m 8.75% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 100 75m 13.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 75 75 JPY 9bn Instruments 40 38 50m 9.375% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 50 50 500m 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 500 500 500 500 750m 4.25% Perpetual Fixed Floating Rate Reset Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 551 503 750m 4.939% Undated Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 551 503 Unamortised premiums, discounts and issue costs 71 44 48 33 Accrued interest 146 124 104 87 Fair value hedge adjustments 41 45 1 6,745 6,717 6,679 6,515 On 16 May 2006 HBOS plc issued 750m Undated Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes at par to HBOS Capital Funding No.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 4.939% annually in arrears until 23 May 2016 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 1.37% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 23 May 2016 and quarterly thereafter.
No exercise of any redemption option or purchase by the relevant entity of any of its undated subordinated liabilities may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
On a winding up of the Company or subsidiary, the claims of the holders of undated loan capital shall be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of all depositors and creditors of the Company or subsidiary other than creditors whose claims are expressed to rank pari passu with, or junior to the claims of the holders of the undated loan capital.
The undated loan capital is junior in point of subordination to the dated loan capital referred to above.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 207 36 Share Capital Ordinary Preference shares shares Total Allotted, called up and fully paid m m m At 1 January 2006 959 198 1,157 Issued under employee share schemes 8 8 Ordinary share buyback 26 26 At 31 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 941 198 1,139 Issued under employee share schemes 5 5 Ordinary share buyback 13 13 At 31 December 2007 933 198 1,131 Issued Share Capital At 31 December 2007 the Companys issued ordinary share capital, excluding shares held in treasury, amounted to 3,730,415,166 shares 2006 3,761,157,260.
In December 2006 HBOS plc announced a further share buyback programme for 2007 in addition to the previous programmes.
During the year HBOS plc has bought 50 million 2006 97 million shares at a total consideration including costs of 500m 2006 982m.
At 31 December 2007 2,589,000 2006 3,032,000 shares bought back remain in treasury to be cancelled.
The Group operates a number of share option plans and saving related option plans for colleagues.
Details of these are given in Note 37.
On 16 June 2006 HBOS plc issued 350,000 6.3673% xed-tooating non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each at an issue price of 1,000.
Authorised Share Capital At 31 December 2007 the authorised share capital comprised: Ordinary shares 4,740 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2006 4,740 million.
Preference shares 2,597 million preference shares of 1 each 2006 2,597 million, 200 million 6 1 8% non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each 2006 200 million, 375 million 9 1 4% non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 2006 375 million, 125 million 9 3 4% non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 2006 125 million, 250,000 8.117% non-cumulative perpetual preference shares class A of 10 each 2006 250,000, 150,000 7.754% non-cumulative perpetual preference shares class B of 10 each 2006 150,000, 750,000 6.0884% non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2006 750,000, 198,065,600 6.475% non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2006 198,065,600, 3,000 million preference shares of 1 each 2006 3,000 million, 4,998 million preference shares of US$1 each 2006 4,998 million, 750,000 6.413% non-cumulative callable xed-tooating rate preference shares series A of US$1 each 2006 750,000, 750,000 5.92% non-cumulative callable xed-tooating rate preference shares series B of US$1 each 2006 750,000, 750,000 6.657% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$1 each 2006 nil, 350,000 6.3673% xed-tooating non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2006 350,000, 1,000 million preference shares of Aus$1 each 2006 1,000 million, 1,000 million preference shares of Can$1 each 2006 1,000 million.
The terms of some of the preference shares when issued are such that these shares are classi ed as other borrowed funds rather than as issued share capital.
207 208 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37 Share-based Payments The Group believes that share ownership by colleagues throughout the Group enhances their alignment with shareholders interests.
Therefore, colleagues in the Group are able to own HBOS shares through various share-based payment arrangements.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group operated the following share-based payment arrangements, which are predominantly equity-settled: Sharesave plan This is a standard tax-approved scheme that is available to all colleagues.
Share option plans The final award under the HBOS plan was made in 2004.
Under this plan options over shares at market value, with a face value equal to 20% of salary, were awarded to all colleagues with the exception of those of level 8 and above.
A separate option plan exists for St. Jamess Place, which awards options in respect of HBOS shares, and which continues to operate.
Free shares This was introduced in 2005 under the share incentive plan legislation as a replacement for the share option plan not including the St. Jamess Place plan.
In broad terms, it covers all colleagues and free shares up to a limit of 3,000 annually, are awarded to each colleague.
Sharekicker plan This provides colleagues with the opportunity to purchase shares with a proportion of their annual net bonus.
For every two shares purchased a matching share is awarded after three years.
EPS Sharekicker plan This replaces Sharekicker from 2007 for colleagues of level 7 and above in relation to annual net bonuses and colleagues of level 8 and above in relation to net bonuses payable under the two year incentive scheme.
Matching shares awarded under this plan depends on EPS performance over the three year vesting period, the range being between 0% and 200%.
A full description of the plan is provided on pages 127 to 128 of the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
Long term incentive plan This is offered to some of the Groups most senior colleagues.
A full description of the plan is provided on pages 128 and 129 of the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
Executive stock option plan The final award under this plan was in 2000.
Under this plan, options were granted at market value to certain colleagues.
The options vested upon satisfaction of a performance measure over a three year period.
Options are exercisable from the date the measure is satis ed until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
St. Jamess Place plans Various St. Jamess Place plc option and share plans are offered to some of its colleagues.
Insight Investment plan In 2007 Insight Investment Management Ltd converted an existing incentive scheme into a share-based payment arrangement, offering options and or shares to some of its colleagues.
Invista Real Estate plans Various share-based plans are offered to certain colleagues in Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc.
Modi cations during the year to awards in the Long term incentive, Sharekicker and EPS Sharekicker plans are explained below.
The table below summarises the share-based payment awards granted in 2007 and 2006: EPS Sharesave Share Free Sharekicker Sharekicker Long term plan option plan c shares plan plan incentive plan Awards in 2007 Date of grant 30 March 1 March 7 August 23 March 23 March 15 March d d e Number granted 4,614,933 620,957 8,372,685 4,535,816 722,340 2,163,888 Awards in 2006 Date of grant 21 September 2 March 8 August 23 March 16 March 30 March d e Number granted 9,669,771 495,885 7,370,115 4,707,159 1,915,822 a d Transfer on 16 March 2007 527,155 527,155 Contractual life 3.5, 5.5 and 5 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 7.5 years Vesting conditions 5.25 and 7.25 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years years vesting service service service service and service and b period achievement achievement of EPS target of TSR target a Modi cations arising as a result of the introduction of the new EPS sharekicker plan.
b Although the savings periods are three, five and seven years the vesting periods are slightly longer since savings commence after the grant date.
c The awards relate to the St. Jamess Place plan.
d These are the number of deferred shares purchased.
e The 2007 award includes 79,200 shares that were not awarded until 23 August 2007.
The 2006 award includes 217,248 shares that were not awarded until 25 August 2006.
Numbers of awards granted are based on 100% of share grants.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 209 Movements in options Movements in options granted under the various equity participation plans mentioned above are as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise Sharesave plan of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 January 48,560,991 6.29 46,576,267 5.86 Granted during the year 4,614,933 8.44 9,669,771 7.93 Exercised during the year 9,626,924 5.52 4,877,672 5.62 Forfeited during the year 2,949,595 7.11 2,536,970 6.13 Expired during the year 305,778 6.08 270,405 5.79 Outstanding at 31 December 40,293,627 6.65 48,560,991 6.29 Exercisable at 31 December 2,644,399 4.52 2,067,132 5.70 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise Share option plans of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 January 35,860,579 7.13 63,355,372 6.92 Granted during the year 620,957 10.71 495,885 9.99 Exercised during the year 15,123,252 7.10 25,667,956 6.68 Forfeited during the year 576,251 7.20 2,322,722 7.05 Outstanding at 31 December 20,782,033 6.94 35,860,579 7.13 Exercisable at 31 December 19,211,979 7.05 6,888,530 6.85 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise Executive stock option plan of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 January 1,251,907 6.11 2,042,488 5.78 Exercised during the year 395,980 5.79 790,581 5.24 Forfeited during the year 42,000 5.87 Outstanding and exercisable at 31 December 813,927 6.28 1,251,907 6.11 For the sharesave plan, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 10.85.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had exercise prices in the range of 4.10 to 8.44 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3 years.
For the share option plans, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 10.34.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had exercise prices in the range of 6.54 to 10.71 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3 years.
For the executive stock option plan, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in the year was 10.03.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had exercise prices in the range of 5.38 to 7.13 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2 years.
209 210 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37 Share-based Payments continued Financial assumptions underlying the calculation of fair value The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate pricing models.
The table below shows the assumptions and models used to calculate the grant date fair value of awards in 2006 and 2007: EPS Sharesave Share option Free Sharekicker sharekicker Long term plan plan b shares plan plan f incentive plan Awards in 2007 d Fair value pence 260 182 945 474 947 756 Share price pence 1,047 1,071 945 1,062 1,062 1,017 Exercise price pence 844 1,071 a Expected volatility % p. a.
3.6 3.4 N A 3.6 4.0 N A Risk-free interest rate 4.9 4.4 N A N A N A N A c Pricing model BlackBinomial BlackBlackMonte Carlo Scholes Lattice Scholes Scholes Simulation a Expected volatility is based on an analysis of both the Groups historical volatility over the twelve months preceding the date of each award and the volatility implied by the price of traded options as at the date of each award.
b The awards relate to the St. Jamess Place plan.
c As no performance conditions attach to these awards and dividends are reinvested, the fair value is the same as the face value of the awards.
d The fair value of Sharekicker awards re ects that a share is automatically awarded for every two held after three years.
e Dividends payable on the matching shares during the vesting period are not awarded to the recipient.
f The 2006 award arises from the modi cations made on 16 March 2007. g Dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period are reinvested and so no dividend yield assumption is required.
Early exercise assumptions The following allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested: Sharesave plan As the length of the exercise window is only six months all option holders are assumed to exercise halfway through the exercise window.
St. Jamess Place plan It is assumed that half of the option holders will exercise their options each year if the share price is at least 15% above the exercise price.
Allowance for performance conditions The long term incentive plan includes a market based performance condition based on the Groups total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo Simulation techniques, which involves running several thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Group and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Group and the comparator index are 60% correlated 2006 award 60% and that the comparator index has volatility of 20% p. a. for the 2007 award 2006 award 15% p. a..
The performance condition is based on the Groups performance relative to the comparator index over a three year period commencing on 1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2007 and 2006 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Groups share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January and the award date.
In 2007 the weightings attached to certain comparators were amended with effect from 1 January 2007 and apply, from that date to 2005, 2006 and 2007 awards.
Full details of the changes are included on pages 128 to 129 of the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
The modi cations do not alter the fair values of any of the awards, nor make additional changes necessary.
Modi cations in relation to Sharekicker and EPS Sharekicker In addition to the introduction of the EPS Sharekicker plan from 2007, eligible colleagues were also provided with the option of moving the outstanding elements of their 2005 and 2006 Sharekicker awards into the new EPS Sharekicker plan with effect from 1 January 2007.
Elections to this effect were nalised on 16 March 2007.
These amendments to the 2005 and 2006 Sharekicker awards are being accounted for as a modi cation under IFRS 2.
As such, any additional matching shares expected to vest to colleagues as a result of the switch to EPS Sharekicker are being charged using the fair value of the 2005 and 2006 awards at 16 March 2007.
The assumptions applied to measure the fair values at 16 March 2007 are as follows: Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 211 2006 2005 awards awards Number of awards moved to EPS Sharekicker 527,155 637,687 Fair value pence 947 985 The share price, expected dividends and pricing model are the same as those used for the 2006 awards for the EPS Sharekicker plan in the table above.
In 2007 2.2m has been charged as a result of the modi cation of the 2005 and 2006 awards.
Charge to the income statement 2007 2006 m m Expense arising from share-based payment transactions Note 5 Equity-settled 138 95 Cash-settled 1 6 139 101 Included within the charge for the year is 13m 2006 8m in respect of share-based arrangements within St. Jamess Place, 4m in respect of the new Insight Investment plan 2006 nil and 3m in respect of Invista Real Estate plans 2006 nil.
In relation to the Groups share schemes, National Insurance and income tax costs of 14m 2006 36m are borne by the Group and are not included in the above table.
The establishment of the Insight Investment plan during the year required awards made under its previous incentive scheme to be converted into this equity-settled arrangement.
As a result 18m was transferred to the share-based compensation scheme reserve which is not included in the charge to the income statement above.
If all options and shares outstanding under the new Insight Investment plan at 31 December 2007 vested on that date, 4.8 million HBOS shares would be required to meet this.
These shares would be sourced from the market, in accordance with the terms of the plan.
The liability for cash-settled share-based payment plans at 31 December 2007 is 5m 2006 5m and is included in accruals and deferred income.
The Group uses trusts to purchase and hold its own shares as part of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of these trusts and the shares held are given below.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trusts The No.
1 Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT 1 administers shares conditionally granted to Executive Directors and other executives under the HBOS Long Term Executive Bonus Plan.
The Trust also administers shares which have been conditionally granted to Executive Directors, other executives and employees under the HBOS plc Annual Bonus Plan and overseas operations of the HBOS plc Share Incentive Plan Free Shares.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT 2 administers shares to be awarded to Executive Directors, other executives and employees under the Groups Sharesave and share option plans, where options are not satis ed by the new issue of shares or from shares held by the HBOS QUEST.
Interest free loans have been provided by the Company to the Trusts to allow shares to be purchased in the market to satisfy these share grants.
At 31 December 2007 0.5 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2006 0.7 million with a market value of 4m 2006 8m were held in ESOT 1 and 7.5 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2006 3.6 million with a market value of 55m 2006 41m were held in ESOT 2.
The shares in the Trusts are included in the balance sheet of the Group at a net book value of nil 2006 nil.
Under the terms of the Trusts, dividends on these shares require to be waived.
HBOS plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the HBOS QUEST The HBOS QUEST operates in conjunction with the HBOS Sharesave scheme and the former savings-related share schemes operated by Bank of Scotland and Halifax Group plc.
At 31 December 2007, the HBOS QUEST held 0.1 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2006 1.7 million with a market value of 1m 2006 19m.
These shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed, dividends on these shares require to be waived.
211 A number of trusts operate in conjunction with the Free Shares Plan which commenced in 2005. a T he Share Incentive Plan trust operates in conjunction with free share awards made to employees throughout the Group, except to the extent noted below.
At 31 December 2007 this trust held 19.6 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2006 12.7 million, with a market value of 144m 2006 144m.
b The Irish Pro t Share Trust holds free shares awarded to colleagues employed in Ireland.
At 31 December 2007 this trust held 0.5 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2006 0.3 million, with a market value of 3m 2006 3m.
c The HBOS Australia Employee Share Trust holds free shares awarded to colleagues employed in Australia.
At 31 December 2007 this trust held 1.7 million shares 2006 1.0 million with a market value of 13m 2006 12m.
These ordinary shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
d ESOT 1 administers free shares awarded to colleagues based overseas.
212 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38 Shareholders Equity Other reserves Cash ow Available Share Share hedge for sale Other Retained Minority b a capital premium reserve reserve reserves earnings interests Total Group m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 1,157 2,316 128 184 532 13,948 191 18,456 Foreign exchange translation 23 23 Revaluation of existing net assets upon acquisition of a jointly controlled entity 15 15 Net actuarial gains from fide ned bene t plans net of tax 163 163 Available for sale investments: Net change in fair value 190 190 Net gains transferred to income statement 171 171 Cash ow hedges: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to equity 209 209 Net losses transferred to income statement 86 86 Pro t for the year 3,879 60 3,939 Total recognised income and expense 295 19 23 4,027 60 4,378 Dividends paid Note 40 1,501 22 1,523 Issue of new shares Note 36 8 540 548 Ordinary share buyback 26 26 982 982 Dilution of shareholdings in subsidiaries 162 162 Acquisition of disposal group 125 125 Disposal of subsidiaries 30 30 Movement in own shares 47 47 Movement in share-based compensation reserve 84 84 At 31 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 1,139 2,856 423 203 535 15,529 486 21,171 Foreign exchange translation 1 1 2 Net actuarial gains from fide ned bene t plans net of tax 312 312 Available for sale investments: Net change in fair value 333 333 Net gains transferred to income statement 184 184 Cash ow hedges: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to equity 216 216 Net gains transferred to income statement 292 292 Pro t for the year 4,045 68 4,113 Total recognised income and expense 508 516 1 4,357 68 3,402 Dividends paid Note 40 1,747 39 1,786 Issue of new shares Note 36 5 141 146 Ordinary share buyback 13 13 500 500 Sale of disposal group 130 130 Other movements 3 15 12 Movement in own shares 177 177 Tax on share-based compensation schemes 36 36 Movements in share-based compensation reserve 156 156 At 31 December 2007 1,131 2,997 85 313 552 17,567 385 22,234 a Other reserves principally include the merger reserve of 494m arising from the combination of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001.
The cumulative balance for exchange translation at 31 December 2007 is 28 m 2006 32 m. b The available for sale reserve is comprised of 450 m 2006 33m in respect of treasury assets and 137m 2006 170m in respect of corporate and other investments.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 213 Share Share Other Retained capital premium reserves earnings Total Company m m m m m At 1 January 2006 1,157 2,316 27 4,417 7,917 Net actuarial loss from fide ned bene t plans net of tax 93 93 Pro t after tax 2,700 2,700 Total recognised income and expense 2,607 2,607 Dividends paid 1,501 1,501 Issue of new shares 8 540 548 Ordinary share buyback 26 26 982 982 Acquisition of own shares 59 59 Movement in respect of share-based compensation 2 2 Movements in respect of tax on employee bene ts 57 57 At 31 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 1,139 2,856 53 4,537 8,585 Net actuarial gain from fide ned bene t plans net of tax 261 261 Pro t after tax 1,731 1,731 Total recognised income and expense 1,992 1,992 Dividends paid 1,747 1,747 Issue of new shares 5 141 146 Ordinary share buyback 13 13 500 500 Acquisition of own shares 62 62 Movements in respect of share-based compensation 3 134 137 At 31 December 2007 1,131 2,997 69 4,354 8,551 Movements in own shares are included within retained earnings.
These shares are held for the purposes of satisfying obligations arising from certain share-based compensation schemes as detailed in Note 37.
39 Capital Management The Groups approach to managing capital is set out on pages 103 to 104 of the Risk Management report and its capital position is set out on pages 76 to 77 in the section headed Capital in the Group Finance Directors Report.
The Groups practice is to use the Company to issue capital instruments and the Groups dividend policy requires surplus reserves to be remitted to the Company, except where they are required to be retained by the subsidiary for regulatory or financial reasons.
40 Dividends After the balance sheet date a dividend of 32.3 pence per ordinary share was proposed by the Directors.
This ordinary dividend has not been provided for but the impact on retained earnings, based on the number of shares in issue at 31 December 2007, is 1,205m.
Ordinary dividends are charged direct to reserves only when the Company has a contractual obligation to pay.
The following dividends have been charged to retained earnings during the year: 2007 2006 m m Ordinary share dividends 2005 final dividend of 24.35p per share 930 2006 interim dividend of 13.5p per share 512 2006 final dividend of 27.9p per share 1,048 2007 interim dividend of 16.6p per share 619 1,667 1,442 Preference share dividends 213 Equity dividends paid 80 59 1,747 1,501 214 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 41 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments 2007 2006 Group m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 43 62 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 6,891 5,068 6,934 5,130 Commitments Short term trade related transactions 115 120 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend with a maturity: Up to and including one year 68,253 61,645 Over one year 31,416 24,049 99,784 85,814 2007 2006 Company m m Contingent liabilities Guarantees provided to subsidiaries 2,608 2,552 2,608 2,552 The contractual amounts above indicate the volume of business outstanding at the year end and do not re ect the underlying credit and other risks, which are signi cantly lower as some facilities will not be drawn down and some facilities that are drawn will be supported by collateral.
Further details of assets pledged as collateral security are given in Note 16 for investment securities and Note 14 for loans and advances to customers.
It should be noted that the Groups liquidity lines to the Groups Grampian and Landale conduits do not appear in the table above as these are internal to the Group and are eliminated on consolidation.
Where the Group is a lessee the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due to be paid in the following periods: 2007 2006 Group m m Not later than one year 185 154 Later than one year and not later than five years 674 567 Later than five years 1,320 1,061 2,179 1,782 Where the Group is a lessee the future obligations payable under finance leases are as follows: 2007 2006 Group m m Not later than one year 1 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 1 1 2 Commitments in respect of capital expenditure on property and equipment that is authorised but not provided for in the accounts, for contracts which have been entered into amount to 21m 2006 21m.
Commitments for contracts which have been placed in relation to operating lease assets amount to 11m 2006 9m.
On 27 July 2007 it was announced that the Company, along with seven other major UK current account providers, had reached agreement with the Of ce of Fair Trading to start legal proceedings in the High Court of England and Wales for a declaration or declarations to resolve legal uncertainties concerning the fairness and lawfulness of unarranged overdraft charges the test case.
It was also announced that the Company and those other providers will seek a stay of all current and potential future Court proceedings which are brought against them in the UK concerning these charges and have obtained the consent of the Financial Services Ombudsman not to proceed with consideration of the merits of any complaints concerning these charges that are referred to him prior to the resolution of the test case.
By virtue of a waiver granted by the Financial Services Authority of its complaints handling rules, the Company and other banks, including the banks party to the test case will not be dealing with or resolving customer complaints on unarranged overdraft charges while the test case is running.
A fide nitive outcome of the test case is unlikely to be known for at least 12 months.
Given the very early stage of these proceedings and the uncertainty as to their outcome, it is not practicable at this time to estimate any potential financial effect.
Prior to the announcement above, the Group refunded certain unarranged overdraft charges on an ex-gratia basis as shown in Note 4.
The Groups consideration of the current position is outlined in the critical accounting judgement in respect of regulatory provisions.
HBOS is engaged in various other litigation in the UK and overseas arising out of its normal business activities.
HBOS considers that none of these actions is material and has not disclosed any contingent liability in respect of these actions because it is not practicable to do so.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 215 42 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The designation of financial instruments adopted by the Group for measurement purposes is set out in the critical accounting judgements and the valuation methodologies for financial instruments are set out in the appropriate accounting policies.
2007 At fair value through the Policyholder income Available Loans and funds statement for sale receivables Carrying Carrying Carrying amount and amount and amount and Carrying fair value fair value fair value amount Fair value m m m m m Financial assets Cash and balances with central banks 2,572 2,572 Items in course of collection 945 945 Financial assets held for trading 54,681 Derivative assets 416 13,725 Loans and advances to banks 2,437 681 4,938 4,948 Loans and advances to customers 430,007 431,639 Investment securities 67,683 9,463 49,986 1,266 1,266 Other financial assets 426 461 893 893 70,962 79,011 49,986 440,621 442,263 2007 At fair value through the At Policyholder income amortised funds statement cost Carrying Carrying amount and amount and Carrying Fair fair value fair value amount value m m m m Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 41,513 41,528 Customer accounts 243,221 244,072 Financial liabilities held for trading 22,705 Derivative liabilities 313 11,998 Investment contract liabilities 43,772 1,864 Debt securities in issue 1,842 204,678 203,579 Other borrowed funds 50 24,203 23,981 Other financial liabilities 253 249 665 665 44,338 38,708 514,280 513,825 In the table above investment contract liabilities exclude 7,192m of investment contracts classi ed as investment contracts with DPF.
An analysis of this is given in Note 27.
The valuation methodologies for calculating the fair value of financial instruments carried as loans and receivables and at amortised cost are set out below.
Loans and advances to banks, loans and advances to customers, deposits by banks and customer accounts are not regularly traded and so market prices are not available.
Fair value is estimated by discounting anticipated contractual cash ows at a current market rate of interest.
Current market rates are estimated by discounting anticipated contractual cash ows at a current market 215 rate of interest and certain portfolios of loans are also impacted by a signi cant change in credit spread.
Current market rates are estimated by reference to the rates at which similar products are advanced by the Group and market.
For loans and deposits with variable interest rates or xed rates which are re-priced within a short period, the carrying value represents fair value.
For debt securities in issue and other borrowed funds carried at amortised cost, the fair values have been derived using quoted prices where available, broker valuations and where these are not available, cash ow models, adjusted for credit spreads where appropriate.
These calculations do not necessarily represent the fair value that could be obtained for the portfolios if they were sold at 31 December 2007.
The exit price for such portfolios in a wholesale market would be subject to negotiation with a buyer and, for the financial assets, would take account of factors including credit risk, loan to collateral ratios, liquidity, contractual terms, historic default rates and age of the portfolio.
These factors and others would in combination be the basis of valuation of the portfolios.
All such drivers of valuation interact and there is no certainty that any single factor would have a greater impact on the portfolio valuation than others.
216 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 42 Fair Value of Financial Instruments continued 2006 At fair value through Policyholder the income Available Loans and funds statement for sale receivables Carrying Carrying Carrying amount and amount and amount and Carrying fair value fair value fair value amount Fair value m m m m m Financial assets Cash and balances with central banks 1,966 1,966 Items in course of collection 880 880 Financial assets held for trading 49,139 Derivative assets 330 8,282 Loans and advances to banks 2,168 590 8,835 9,426 Loans and advances to customers 376,808 377,158 Investment securities 65,385 6,299 44,854 493 493 Other financial assets 424 293 1,444 1,431 68,307 64,603 44,854 390,426 391,354 2006 At fair value through At Policyholder the income amortised funds statement cost Carrying Carrying amount and amount and Carrying fair value fair value amount Fair value m m m m Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 30,557 30,460 Customer accounts 211,857 212,077 Financial liabilities held for trading 22,334 Derivative liabilities 280 10,475 Investment contract liabilities 39,250 1,542 Debt securities in issue 3,260 180,390 180,078 Other borrowed funds 48 19,644 20,203 Other financial liabilities 503 2,151 2,052 40,033 37,659 444,599 444,870 In the table above investment contract liabilities exclude 8,694m of investment contracts classi ed as investment contracts with DPF.
For the Company, derivatives and debt securities are measured at fair value.
Fair values for other borrowed funds have been obtained from market prices where available, broke quotes or where neither are available a discounted cash ow model using current market rates adjusted for credit spreads.
At 31 December 2007 the carrying value of other borrowed funds is 15,503m 2006 12,326m and the fair value is 15,253m 2006 13,053m.
The fair value of amounts owed by and to Group entities is deemed to be the carrying value except where they have xed interest rates or where they are directly linked to other borrowed funds.
In these circumstances the fair value is adjusted to re ect the impact of current interest rates or the fair value adjustments of the linked other borrowed funds.
At 31 December 2007 the carrying value of net amounts owed by Group entities is 9,618m 2006 9,468m and the fair value 9,201m 2006 9,391m.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 217 43 Credit Risk The Groups approach to managing credit risk is set out on pages 89 to 91 of the Risk Management report.
The table below sets out the Groups exposure to credit risk relating to financial instruments before taking account of collateral and other security.
Policyholder assets are excluded from the Groups exposure in the table as the underlying credit risks are for the account of policyholders and have no direct impact on the Groups results.
2007 2006 m m Derivative assets 162 1 Amounts owed to Group entities 38,885 27,765 Debt securities 1 40 39,048 27,806 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2,608 2,552 41,656 30,358 The internal credit ratings of the Group are assessed on a comparable basis to those given by external credit rating agencies.
Where external credit ratings are available, these have been used in the analyses below.
Financial assets held for trading Financial assets held for trading are almost exclusively investment grade investments with 99% 2006 99% of inter-bank and structured investment portfolios rated A or above based on internal credit ratings.
An analysis of financial instruments held for trading is given in Note 11.
Derivative assets Derivative assets are primarily traded with investment grade counterparties with 83% 2006 90% of derivatives rated A or above based on internal credit ratings.
The Companys derivatives are wholly traded with Bank of Scotland plc which has a credit rating of AA.
An analysis of derivatives is given in Note 13.
Loans and advances to banks 217 Loans and advances to banks are primarily invested with investment grade banks of which 80% 2006 90% have a credit rating of A or above based on internal credit ratings.
218 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 43 Credit Risk continued Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are managed on a divisional basis.
A divisional analysis of advances to customers is set out in Note 8 and an analysis of loans and advances is given in Note 14.
Additional disclosures in respect of the credit quality of loans and advances is given in the divisional sections of the Business Review prefaced as being an integral part of the financial statements as follows: Retail on pages 21 to 22, Corporate on pages 29 to 30, International on page 47, Australia on page 49, Ireland on page 53 and Europe & North America on page 56.
The Groups Corporate, International and Treasury neither past due nor impaired lending exposures are analysed by internal credit rating below: 2007 2006 % % Better than satisfactory risk 33 27 Satisfactory risk 54 55 Viable but monitoring 11 16 High risk 2 2 100 100 The loan to value of the Groups Retail home mortgage lending exposure is analysed below: 2007 2006 % % Less than 70% 65 62 70% to 80% 18 19 80% to 90% 13 15 Greater than 90% 4 4 100 100 The ageing of the Groups lending exposure that is past due but not impaired is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Up to 3 months 10,746 10,898 3 to 6 months 9 546 Greater than 6 months 31 1,158 10,786 12,602 The Groups impaired gross lending exposure is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Retail secured lending 4,234 4,047 Retail unsecured lending 2,322 2,411 Corporate no loss 1,648 557 Corporate with loss 1,517 1,163 International 826 581 10,547 8,759 Loans categorised as impaired with no loss represent loans that have been individually assessed as having impairment characteristics but where we expect, after taking into consideration collateral and other credit enhancements, full recovery of both interest and capital.
The ageing of the Groups lending exposure that is impaired is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Up to 3 months 1,552 779 3 to 6 months 2,993 2,425 6 months to one year 2,150 1,957 Greater than one year 1,613 1,410 Possession 399 374 Recoveries 1,840 1,814 10,547 8,759 The Group holds collateral valued at 292m 2006 332m in respect of the 399m 2006 317m of possession exposures.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 219 Collateral The value of collateral held by the Group as described above includes the value of the homes secured against the mortgage lending without limitation to the actual loan amounts.
The average loan to value of UK Retail home mortgages that are impaired is 57% 2006 57%.
The Groups Corporate lending is generally secured by xed and oating charges.
Amounts owed by Group entities The Companys inter-company assets are primarily transacted with companies in the Group that have credit ratings of AA.
Debt securities Debt securities are primarily held within the Treasury & Asset Management, Corporate and Insurance & Investment divisions and are almost exclusively issued by investment grade counterparties with 96% 2006 94% of debt securities rated A or above based on internal credit ratings.
The Companys investment securities comprise UK government gilts with an external AAA credit rating.
Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities and commitments are analysed in Note 41.
This amount re ects the outstanding business at the year end and re ects the maximum credit exposure that could be drawn down.
Some facilities will not be drawn down or may be only partially utilised.
44 Market Risk The Groups approach to managing market risk is set out on pages 91 to 95 of the Risk Management report.
The Companys approach to managing market risk is to transfer interest rate and foreign exchange risk to its subsidiary Bank of Scotland plc through a combination of inter-company loans, deposits and derivative instruments.
The following table shows, split by currency, the Companys sensitivity as at 31 December 2007 to an immediate interest rate shift of 25 basis points to all interest rates.
2007 2006 25 bps -25 bps 25 bps -25 bps Impact of interest rate shift on income statement expense income m m m m Currency Sterling 34 34 23 23 Australian Dollar 1 1 1 1 33 33 22 22 Non-Trading Currency Exposure Structural currency exposures arise from the Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries, branches and other investments and are noted in the table below.
2007 2006 Net Borrowing Remaining Net Borrowing Remaining investments taken out to structural investments taken out to structural in overseas hedge net currency in overseas hedge net currency operations investments exposure operations investments exposure Functional currency of the operation m m m m m m Australian Dollar 2,023 2,023 1,560 1,560 Euro 1,888 1,613 275 1,464 1,224 240 US Dollar 97 97 106 99 7 Other 4 4 13 13 4,012 3,733 279 3,143 2,883 260 At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 there are no material net currency exposures in the non-trading book relating to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise to net currency gains or losses.
Additional information on the Groups foreign exchange risk is set out on pages 93 to 94 of the Risk Management report.
45 Liquidity Risk 219 The Groups approach to managing liquidity risk is set out on pages 95 to 98 of the Risk Management report.
The tables below set out the contractual cash ows attaching to the Groups financial liabilities excluding those related to policyholder funds and the Companys financial liabilities.
Except for the insurance contract liabilities these cash ows are not discounted and include both the contractual cash ows pertaining to the balance sheet liabilities and future contractual cash ows that they will generate.
Certain long dated financial liabilities allow for early termination at the option of the Group.
Where the terms of these instruments have been designed to economically compel the Group to early settle, the earlier settlement date has been applied.
For undated instruments the earlier of 20 years or expected date of maturity has been applied.
The analysis of insurance contract liabilities is based on the expected timing of discounted amounts recognised at the balance sheet date.
Policyholder funds have been excluded from the analysis as the underlying risks are for the account of policyholders and have no direct impact on the Groups results.
In addition to the cash ows detailed below, the Group is exposed to potential cash out ows in the form of commitments and contingencies as set out in Note 41.
220 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 221 2006 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 month months months years years Company m m m m m Liabilities Derivative liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 3 35 114 1,945 5,035 Gross settled derivatives in ows 36 91 1,791 4,721 Gross settled derivatives net ows 3 1 23 154 314 Amounts owed to Group entities 10,431 1,302 1,704 4,072 12,786 Other borrowed funds 124 362 4,148 10,402 10,434 1,425 2,089 8,374 23,502 46 Special Purpose Entities The Group sponsors special purpose entities SPEs that are used in its securitisation and funding programmes.
The principal securitisation programmes are listed in Note 14.
In addition, the Group sponsors two conduit programmes, Grampian and Landale, which invest in asset-backed securities funded by commercial paper or through banking facilities.
Details of the assets secured under these conduit programmes are given in Note 16.
Two of the Landale SPEs are not consolidated by the Group.
One is the central funding company for the conduit that obtains external funding and lends it to the purchasing companies.
The second is a purchasing company that has acquired oating rate notes issued under the Groups mortgage securitisation programmes and which is supported by liquidity lines that are provided by third party banks.
These entities are not consolidated as there are insuf cient indicators of control, in particular as the credit risk relating to the assets held by the entities and the liquidity risks are not borne by the Group.
If these two entities were consolidated by the Group the financial impact would be minimal with the principal effects increasing deposits by banks by 1,756m 2006 nil and customer accounts by 100m 2006 nil and decreasing debt securities in issue by 1,856m 2006 nil.
Group pro t before tax and retained earnings would both be increased by 0.5m 2006 nil.
47 Related Party Transactions HBOS plc is the ultimate parent company of the Group.
Banking transactions are entered into by the Company with its subsidiaries in the normal course of business and are at normal commercial terms.
These include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions.
Balances between HBOS plc and its subsidiaries are shown on the Company balance sheet.
Interest income and expense are 1,909m 2006 1,469m and 1,718m 2006 966m respectively.
HBOS plc is the principal employer of the Group and staff and other costs in the year of 2,457m 2006 2,277m were recharged to subsidiaries.
In the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group provided both administration and processing services to Sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts payable to the Group during the year are 42m 2006 36m, of which 18m is outstanding at the year end 2006 15m.
At 31 December 2007, Sainsburys Bank plc also has balances with the Group that are included in loans and advances to banks of 726m 2006 766m and deposits by banks of 3,430m 2006 943m.
At 31 December 2007, there are loans and advances to customers of 11,373m 2006 10,115m outstanding and balances within customer accounts of 575m 2006 304m relating to jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings.
At 31 December 2007, there are customer accounts of 20m 2006 3m and investment and insurance contract liabilities of 425m 2006 489m related to the Groups pension arrangements.
Additionally, the Groups pension funds hold HBOS plc ordinary shares with a value of 19m 2006 28m and HBOS plc bonds with a value of 2m 2006 nil.
48 Transactions with Key Management Personnel For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management personnel comprise the members of the Board of HBOS plc and, as the senior executive committee of the Group, the members of the HBOS Executive Committee.
Remuneration and other compensation 221 2007 2006 000 000 Emoluments 13,276 10,436 Termination bene ts 1,475 Post retirement bene ts 63 222 Equity compensation bene ts 6,257 7,715 Product transactions Key management personnel and other colleagues, as well as receiving salary, incentives, shares, pensions and other bene ts are entitled to enter into product transactions with HBOS plc and its subsidiaries.
These transactions are generally in the form of banking, savings, mortgage, loan, insurance, assurance and investment products.
Any product offerings that are received on bene cial terms compared to the terms received by customers and which give rise to taxable bene ts in kind are declared to HM Revenue & Customs and taxed accordingly.
222 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48 Transactions with Key Management Personnel continued Key management personnel and members of their related parties have undertaken transactions with HBOS plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which have been disclosed to the Group are given below: Mortgages, credit cards and term loans Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2006 10 4,526 Amounts advanced during the year 5 1,589 Interest charged 7 245 Amounts repaid during the year 11 1,324 Upon resignation 1 13 At 31 December 2006 10 5,049 Upon appointment 1 3 Interest charged 8 271 Amounts repaid during the year 11 2,036 Upon resignation 3 1,460 At 31 December 2007 7 1,827 Bank, cheque or current accounts Number Credit Debit Net of key balances balances balances management personnel 000 000 000 At 1 January 2006 10 1,222 77 1,145 Net movement during the year 12 6,316 940 5,376 Upon resignation 1 51 51 At 31 December 2006 11 7,487 1,017 6,470 Upon appointment 3 413 413 Net movement during the year 15 1,129 419 1,548 Upon resignation 3 130 1,236 1,106 At 31 December 2007 12 6,641 200 6,441 Savings and deposit accounts Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2006 7 2,367 Upon appointment 1 94 Amounts deposited during the year 8 5,611 Interest credited 9 51 Amounts withdrawn during the year 7 1,813 Upon resignation 1 3,010 At 31 December 2006 8 3,300 Upon appointment 2 1,550 Amounts deposited during the year 9 3,123 Interest credited 7 114 Amounts withdrawn during the year 7 2,393 Upon resignation 1 32 At 31 December 2007 10 5,662 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 223 Life assurance and investment contracts Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2006 7 4,512 Upon appointment 1 48 Premiums paid amounts invested during the year 8 307 Other movements including investment returns 8 2,127 Upon resignation 1 5 Total sum insured value of investment at 31 December 2006 8 6,989 Upon appointment 2 173 Premiums paid amounts invested during the year 9 3,191 Other movements including investment returns 10 1,995 Upon resignation 2 1,331 Total sum insured value of investment at 31 December 2007 8 7,027 The following disclosures are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Companies Act 2006.
The number of Directors together with their connected persons who had transactions and balances with banking entities in the Group were as follows: 2007 2006 Number of Number of Directors 000 Directors 000 Loans 6 1,440 7 4,420 Quasi-loans and credit cards 6 14 7 27 6 1,454 7 4,447 223
