HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements Note 1 1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2007, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2007 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
On 1 January 2007, HSBC adopted the following IFRIC interpretations: IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment, which had no significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC Holdings: and IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 11.
On application of this interpretation, HSBC Holdings recognises all share-based payment transactions as equity-settled in its separate financial statements.
The adoption of IFRIC 11 had no effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
However, in the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings, the effect was to increase both Investments in subsidiaries and Share-based payment reserve by US$909 million in 2006.
This change in accounting policy was made in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRIC 11, which state that IFRIC 11 shall be applied retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, subject to the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards As stated in Note 46, there are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 and IFRS 7 relating to the nature and extent of risks have been included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk on pages 344 to 352.
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements have been included in the audited sections of Capital management and allocation on pages 282 to 288.
Disclosures relating to Off-balance sheet arrangements and special purpose entities are set out below on pages 183 to 191 and are also audited.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
HSBC has taken advantage of the exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 from certain partnerships that are consolidated by HSBC presenting their own individual financial statements under IFRSs.
The functional currency of HSBC Holdings plc is the US dollar, which is also the presentational currency of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
d Comparative information As required by US public company reporting requirements, these consolidated financial statements include two years of comparative information for the consolidated income statement, consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and related notes on the financial statements.
344 e Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
Use of available information and application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to loan impairment, goodwill impairment and the valuation of financial instruments see Critical Accounting Policies on pages 132 to 134 which form an integral part of these financial statements.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in these notes on the financial statements.
f Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations.
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually.
Newly acquired subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by HSBC.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration given at the date of exchange, together with costs directly attributable to that acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases.
In the context of Special Purpose Entities SPEs, the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in which, in substance, HSBC controls and, consequently, consolidates an SPE: the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPEs operation: HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, by setting up an autopilot mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers: HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of the SPE: or HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between HSBC and an SPE.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates.
These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of the Bank of Communications, Ping An Insurance and Industrial Bank which are included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September.
These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Groups reporting timetable.
HSBC has taken into account changes in the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have materially affected its results.
g Future accounting developments Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, which replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting IAS 14, was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard specifies how an entity should report information about its operating segments, based on information about the 345 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 components of the entity that the chief operating decision maker uses to make operating decisions.
HSBC currently presents two sets of segments in accordance with IAS 14, one geographical and one based on customer groups, which reflect the way the businesses of the Group are managed.
HSBC expects to adopt IFRS 8 with effect from 1 January 2009, and will accordingly present segmental information which reflects the operating segments used to make operating decisions at that time.
Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU The IASB issued a revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs on 29 March 2007, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard eliminates the option of recognising borrowing costs immediately as an expense, to the extent that they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
HSBC does not expect adoption of the revised standard to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 12 was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 12 provides guidance on service concession arrangements by which a government or other public sector entity grants contracts for the supply of public services to private sector operators.
IFRIC 12 addresses how service concession operators should apply existing IFRSs to account for the obligations they undertake and the rights they receive in service concession arrangements.
IFRIC 12 is unlikely to have a significant effect on HSBC.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 13 was issued on 28 June 2007 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 addresses how companies that grant their customers loyalty award credits often called points when buying goods or services should account for their obligation to provide free or discounted goods and services, if and when the customers redeem the points.
IFRIC 13 requires companies to allocate some of the proceeds of the initial sale to the award credits and recognise these proceeds as revenue only when they have fulfilled their obligations to provide goods or services.
HSBC is currently assessing the effect of this interpretation on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 14 was issued on 5 July 2007 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance regarding the circumstances under which refunds and future reductions in contributions from a defined benefit plan can be regarded as available to an entity for the purpose of recognising a net defined benefit asset.
Additionally, in jurisdictions where there is both a minimum funding requirement and restrictions over the amounts that companies can recover from the plan, either as refunds or reductions in contributions, additional liabilities may need to be recognised.
A revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, was issued on 6 September 2007.
The revised standard aims to improve users ability to analyse and compare information given in financial statements.
Adoption of the revised standard will have no effect on the results reported in HSBCs consolidated financial statements but will change the presentation of the results and financial position of HSBC in certain respects.
The IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment on 17 January 2008.
The amendment, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, clarifies that vesting conditions comprise only service conditions and performance conditions.
It also specifies the accounting treatment for a failure to meet a non-vesting condition.
Adoption of the amendment is unlikely to have a significant effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
A revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and an amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, were issued on 10 January 2008.
The revisions to the standards apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual financial reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The main changes under the standards are that: acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses in the income statement in the period they are incurred: equity interests held prior to control being obtained are remeasured to fair value at the time control is obtained, and any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement: 346 changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and reported in equity: and An option is available, on a  basis, to measure any non-controlling interests previously referred to as minority interests in the entity acquired either at fair value, or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the net identifiable assets of the entity acquired.
The effect that the changes will have on the results and financial position of HSBC will depend on the incidence and timing of business combinations occurring on or after 1 January 2010.
The IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, on 14 February 2008.
The amendments are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
HSBC is currently assessing the effect of the amendments, if any, on the consolidated financial statements.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value other than debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with such debt securities issued are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but not future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Interest on impaired financial assets is calculated by applying the original effective interest rate of the financial asset to the carrying amount as reduced by any allowance for impairment.
b Non-interest income HSBC earns fee income from a diverse range of services provided to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, such as the arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities : income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees : and income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate for example, certain loan commitment fees and recorded in Interest income Note 2a.
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with related interest income, expense and dividends.
Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income and expense and dividend income arising on these financial instruments are also included, except for debt securities issued and derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued.
Interest on these instruments is presented in Interest expense.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for equity securities.
347 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 c Segment reporting HSBC is organised into five geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, North America and Latin America, and manages its business through four customer groups: Personal Financial Services: Commercial Banking: Global Banking and Markets: and Private Banking.
The main items reported in the Other segment are the income and expenses of wholesale insurance operations, certain property activities, unallocated investment activities including hsbc.
com, centrally held investment companies and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
Segment income and expenses include transfers between geographical regions and transfers between customer groups.
These transfers are conducted on arms length terms and conditions.
In HSBCs segmental analysis of the income statement by customer groups and global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with third party and intra-segment interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the consolidated income statement, intra-segment interest income and expense are eliminated.
d Determination of fair value All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
In the normal course of business, the fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the financial instrument.
When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in fair value indicated by the valuation model from the transaction price is not recognised immediately in the income statement but is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, or when the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which refer to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
For financial instruments, fair values may be determined in whole or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data.
Factors such as bid-offer spread, credit profile and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when fair values are calculated using valuation techniques.
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions that other market participants would use in their valuations, including assumptions about interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and default rates.
Where a portfolio of financial instruments has quoted prices in an active market, the fair value of the instruments are calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price and no block discounts are made.
If the fair value of a financial asset measured at fair value becomes negative, it is recorded as a financial liability until its fair value becomes positive, at which time it is recorded as a financial asset.
The fair values of financial liabilities are measured using quoted market prices where available, or using valuation techniques.
These fair values include market participants assessments of the appropriate credit spread to apply to HSBCs liabilities.
The amount of change during the period, and cumulatively, in the fair value of designated financial liabilities and loans and advances that is attributable to changes in their credit spread is determined as the amount of change in the fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
348 e Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not classified either as held for trading or designated at fair value.
Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
They are derecognised when either borrowers repay their obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
Where loans and advances are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and advances so hedged includes a fair value adjustment for the hedged risk only.
For certain leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC.
Where the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a trading derivative.
Where it is not HSBCs intention to trade the loan, a provision is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss as a result of the loan commitment.
This may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower than the cost of funding.
On inception of the loan, the hold portion is recorded at its fair value.
Where this fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced for example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest, the write down is charged to the income statement.
The write down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income using the effective interest rate method, unless the loan is impaired.
The write down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income.
f Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans assessed collectively.
Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement.
The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts.
Losses expected from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: and when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
349 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment: and for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of loss has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective loss.
This reflects impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
These losses will only be individually identified in the future.
As soon as information becomes available which identified losses on individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis for impairment.
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan: and managements experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable.
Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at which point they are removed from the group.
Two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology.
This methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due, and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
In other cases, when the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll rate methodology, HSBC adopts a formulaic approach which allocates progressively higher percentage loss rates the longer a customers loan is overdue.
Loss rates are based on historical experience.
In normal circumstances, historical experience provides the most objective and relevant information from which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, historical loss experience provides less relevant information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, where 350 there have been changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions, such that the most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors are not fully reflected in the statistical models.
These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features such as the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, changes in laws and regulations and other items which can affect customer payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters.
These risk factors, where relevant, are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
Write-off of loans and advances A loan and the related impairment allowance account is normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery of the principal amount and, for a collateralised loan, when the proceeds from realising the security have been received.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write back is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held for sale and reported in Other assets.
The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale.
Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, in Other operating income.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write down, is also recognised in Other operating income, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as new loans for measurement purposes once the minimum number of payments required under the new arrangements have been received.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired or should be considered past due.
The carrying amount of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
g Trading assets and trading liabilities Treasury bills, debt securities, equity shares, loans, deposits, debt securities in issue, and short positions in securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
These financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell securities, and are normally derecognised when either sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement.
Subsequently, their fair values are remeasured, and all gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in Net trading income as they arise.
351 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 h Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management.
HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: eliminates or significantly reduces valuation or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different bases.
Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues.
The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest on receive fixed pay variable interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy.
An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under investment contracts.
Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, with changes recognised in the income statement.
If no designation was made for the assets relating to the customer liabilities they would be classified as available-for-sale and the changes in fair value would be recorded directly in equity.
These financial instruments are managed on a fair value basis and management information is also prepared on this basis.
Designation at fair value of the financial assets and liabilities under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line.
applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to management on that basis.
Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated.
HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks.
Reports are provided to management on the fair value of the assets.
Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations.
relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held.
The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable.
Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
i Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value Note 2h, are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity.
Financial investments are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their obligations.
i Available-for-sale securities are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in equity in the Available-for-sale reserve Note 39 until the securities are either sold or impaired.
When available-forsale securities are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
352 Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale securities using the effective interest rate method, calculated over the assets expected life.
Premiums and or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment has been established.
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of a financial asset or group of assets.
This usually arises when circumstances are such that an adverse effect on future cash flows from the asset or group of assets can be reliably estimated.
If an available-for-sale security is impaired, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the assets acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses are subject to contrasting treatments depending on the nature of the instrument concerned: if the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement: impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
ii Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold until maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
j Sale and repurchase agreements including stock lending and borrowing When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to sell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised over the life of the agreement.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities or cash advanced or received.
The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally reflected on the balance sheet.
Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability respectively.
Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet.
If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are included in Net trading income.
k Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
Fair values of exchangetraded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices.
Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded conversion option.
Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract: the terms of the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract: and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are 353 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged.
All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedges : or iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met.
Hedge accounting At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge.
HSBC also requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in Net interest income.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, it is released to the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity within the cash flow hedging reserve.
Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in equity: a gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation.
Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective prospective effectiveness, and demonstrate actual effectiveness retrospective effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
354 The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed.
The method an HSBC entity adopts for assessing hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy.
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated.
For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80 per cent to 125 per cent.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
These gains and losses are reported in Net trading income, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value other than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group, in which case gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
The interest on derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group which are designated at fair value is recognised in Interest expense.
All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
l Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired: or when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained control.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
m Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
n Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries.
Where HSBC is a party to a contractual arrangement whereby, together with one or more parties, it undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control, HSBC classifies its interest in the venture as a joint venture.
HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates.
For the purpose of determining this classification, control is considered to be the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Reversals of impairment losses are recognised in the income statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBCs share of net assets.
Profits on transactions between HSBC and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the respective associates or joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the associates or joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
355 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 o Goodwill and intangible assets i Goodwill arises on business combinations, including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates, when the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
If HSBCs interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an acquired business is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Impairment testing is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired, by comparing the present value of the expected future cash flows from a cash-generating unit with the carrying amount of its net assets, including attributable goodwill.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses are charged to the income statement.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in Interests in associates and joint ventures.
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
ii Intangible assets include the value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, are tested for impairment annually.
This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is performed at the same time every year.
An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year.
Intangible assets that have a finite useful life, except for the value of in-force long-term insurance business, are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life.
The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within Net fee income.
For the accounting policy governing the value of in-force long-term insurance business see Note 2x.
356 Equipment, fixtures and fittings including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor are stated at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years.
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both.
Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement in the period of change.
Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation techniques.
q Finance and operating leases Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The finance income receivable is recognised in Net interest income over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Other liabilities.
A finance lease and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance charges payable are recognised in Net interest income over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to operating leases in Property, plant and equipment and accounts for them accordingly.
Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the equipment is thereby impaired.
When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in General and administrative expenses and Other operating income, respectively.
r Income tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when a legal right to offset exists in the entity.
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised directly in equity.
Deferred tax relating to fair value remeasurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to equity, is also credited or charged directly to equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
357 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 s Pension and other post-employment benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world.
These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment health-care.
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBCs obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the reporting date by the schemes actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the current service cost, plus the unwinding of the discount rate on plan liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets, and is presented in operating expenses.
Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement to the extent that the benefits have vested, and are otherwise recognised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
Actuarial gains and losses comprise experience adjustments the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Shareholders equity and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in which they arise.
The defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The costs of obligations arising from other defined post-employment benefits plans, such as defined benefit health-care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
t Share-based payments The cost of share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted, and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the Share-based payment reserve.
The fair value of equity instruments that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed immediately.
Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the equity instruments were granted.
Market performance conditions are reflected as an adjustment to the fair value of equity instruments at the date of grant, so that an award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market performance condition is satisfied, provided all other conditions are satisfied.
Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not factored into the initial estimate of the fair value at the grant date.
They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction, so that the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest.
On a cumulative basis, no expense is recognised for equity instruments that do not vest because of a failure to satisfy non-market performance or service conditions.
Where an award has been modified, as a minimum the expense of the original award continues to be recognised as if it had not been modified.
Where the effect of a modification is to increase the fair value of an award or increase the number of equity instruments, the incremental fair value of the award or incremental fair value of the extra equity instruments is recognised in addition to the expense of the original grant, measured at the date of modification, over the remaining vesting period.
A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period.
Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries, the cost is recognised in Investment in subsidiaries and credited to the Share-based payment reserve over the vesting period.
Where the cost is recharged to the subsidiary, it is recognised as an inter-company debtor, not as an investment in subsidiary.
Where a subsidiary has funded the share-based payment arrangement, Investment 358 in subsidiaries is reduced upon exercise by the number of equity instruments exercised multiplied by their grant date fair value.
u Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBCs entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC are presented in US dollars, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a nonmonetary item is recognised directly in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net investments, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are recognised in equity in the Foreign exchange reserve.
Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements.
In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in the Foreign exchange reserve in shareholders equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in reserves are recognised in the income statement.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a current legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
w Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantees contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts, are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable.
Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees to other Group entities.
Where it has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract.
This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
359 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 x Insurance contracts Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof.
A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
Insurance contracts are accounted for as follows: Premiums Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period.
The unearned premium the proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance sheet date is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Claims and reinsurance recoveries Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding claims liabilities.
Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claimhandling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques.
Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, all contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability.
When a shortfall is identified it is charged immediately to the income statement.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset.
360 The PVIF long-term insurance business is determined by discounting future cash flows expected to emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective long-term insurance business.
Movements in the PVIF long-term insurance business are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
Future profit participation Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, insurance liabilities include the net unrealised gains recognised in connection with the assets backing the contracts to the extent that policyholders will benefit from such gains.
This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy.
The corresponding movement in liability is recognised in equity or in the income statement in the same proportion to the net unrealised gains on the assets.
In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable.
y Investment contracts Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value.
Movements in fair value are recognised in Net income from financial investments designated at fair value.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
Liabilities under linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision of the investment management services, in Net fee income.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
z Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method to amortise the difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction costs and the redemption amount over the expected life of the debt.
aa Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in Total shareholders equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled.
When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in Total shareholders equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects.
ab Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are normally those with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, and include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates of deposit.
361 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 3 and 4 3 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value, including liabilities under investment contracts: all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value: and interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of: financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value: and derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest arising on HSBCs issued debt securities, together with the interest element of derivatives managed in conjunction with them, which are recognised in Interest expense.
In 2007 HSBC recognised a US$3,055 million gain on changes in the fair value of these instruments arising from changes in HSBCs own credit spread 2006: loss US$388 million.
4 Gains from dilution of interests in associates During 2007, certain HSBC associates issued new shares.
HSBC did not subscribe for any of the shares issued under these offers and, as a result, its interests in the associates equity decreased.
The assets of each associate substantially increased as a result of the new share issues and, as a consequence, the transactions resulted in an increase in HSBCs share of the associates underlying net assets, notwithstanding the reduction in the Groups proportionate ownership interests.
This increase represents gains from dilution of the Groups interests in the associates, and is presented in the income statement.
The dilution gains therefore include a minority interest of US$71 million.
2 Subsequent to the dilution of its interests in Bank of Communications, HSBC increased its holding from 18.60 per cent to 19.01 per cent at 31 December 2007 Note 21.
362 The dilution does not affect the classification of the Groups investments as Investments in associates as the Group continues to retain significant influence see Note 21.
Progressively, HSBC has been moving to defined contribution plans for all new employees.
The pension cost for defined contribution plans, which cover 49 per cent of HSBCs employees, was US$485 million 2006: US$456 million: 2005: US$389 million.
Both HSBCs and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees long-term investment objectives for defined benefit plans are: to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liability of the plans over the long-term: and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
Both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees, consider that the investment policy should be consistent with meeting their mutual overall long-term investment objectives.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and desired levels of out-performance where relevant.
This is intended to be reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which the actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if circumstances or local legislation so require.
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
The Groups defined benefit plans, which cover 37 per cent of HSBCs employees, are predominantly funded plans with assets which, in the case of most of the larger plans, are held in trust or similar funds separate from HSBC.
The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.
The largest plan exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme covers employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC.
This plan comprises a funded defined benefit plan the principal plan which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was established on 1 July 1996 for new employees.
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid.
The Trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles SIP.
The SIP sets out the principles governing how decisions about investments are made.
In 2006, HSBC and the Trustee of the principal plan agreed to change the investment strategy in order to reduce the investment risk.
This involved switching from a largely equity-based strategy to a strategy largely based on holding bonds together with a more diverse range of investments.
The principal plan committed to undertake a programme including entering into swap arrangements whereby the principal plan is committed to making LIBOR related interest payments in exchange for cash flows paid into the plan, based on a projection of the future benefit payments from the principal plan.
At 31 December 2007, this strategy was substantially in place and details of the swap arrangements are included in Note 44.
The latest actuarial investigation of the principal plan was made at 31 December 2005, by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Watson Wyatt Limited.
At that date, the market value of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Schemes assets was US$18,072 million including assets relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined contribution plan, and additional voluntary contributions.
The market value of the plan assets represented 89 per cent of the amount expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings, and the resulting deficit amounted to US$2,065 million.
The method adopted for this investigation was the projected unit method.
The expected cash flows from the plan were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index RPI swap break-even curve at 31 December 2005.
Salary increases were assumed to be 1 per cent per annum above RPI and inflationary pension increases, subject to a minimum of 0 per cent and a maximum of 5 per cent, were assumed to be in line with RPI.
The projected cash flows were discounted at the LIBOR swap curve at 31 December 2005 plus a margin for the expected return on the investment strategy of 110 basis points per annum.
The mortality experience of the plans pensioners over the three year period since the previous valuation was analysed and the mortality assumption set on the basis of this with allowances for medium cohort improvements on the PA92 series of tables from the valuation date.
In anticipation of the results of the 2005 investigation, on 22 December 2005 HSBC Bank plc made an additional contribution of US$1,746 million to the principal plan in order to reduce the deficit of the plan.
HSBC considers that the contributions set out above are sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2005 over the agreed period.
HSBC Bank plc made the contribution of US$587 million in March 2007 HSBC also decided to make ongoing contributions to the principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined benefit section members at the rate of 36 per cent of pensionable salaries from 1 January 2007, until the completion of the next actuarial valuation, due at 31 December 2008.
During 2006 HSBC paid contributions at the rate of 20 per cent of pensionable salaries.
A further 2 per cent of pensionable salaries is being paid over the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2014 to make good the difference in contributions during 2006.
As part of the 31 December 2005 valuation, calculations were also carried out as to the amount of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities if the plan was discontinued and the members benefits bought out with an insurance company although in practice this may not be possible for a plan of this size or the Trustee continued to run the plan without the support of HSBC.
The amount required under this approach is estimated to be US$26,700 million as at 31 December 2005.
In estimating the solvency position for this purpose, a more prudent assumption about future mortality was made than for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio of cash and interest and inflation swaps.
An explicit allowance for expenses was also included.
The benefits payable from the defined benefit plan are expected to be as shown in the chart below: 367 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 8 Benefit payments US$m 2,000 1,8 0 0 1,6 0 0 1,4 0 0 1,2 0 0 1,0 0 0 800 600 400 200 0 2007 2018 2029 2040 2051 2062 2073 2084 In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC Group.
The scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme which provides a lump sum on retirement but is now closed to new members and a defined contribution scheme.
The latter was established on 1 January 1999 for new employees.
The latest valuation of the defined benefit plan was made at 31 December 2006 and was performed by Estella Chiu, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries of the United States of America, of HSBC Life International Limited, a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
At the valuation date, the market value of the defined benefit schemes assets was US$1,109 million.
On an ongoing basis, the actuarial value of the schemes assets represented 119 per cent of the actuarial present value of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$174 million.
On a wind-up basis, the schemes assets represented 126 per cent of the members vested benefits, based on current salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$228 million.
The attained age method has been adopted for the valuation and the major assumptions used in this valuation were a discount rate of 4 per cent per annum and long-term salary increases of 3 per cent per annum with short-term deviation from 2007 to 2008.
The HSBC North America U. S. Retirement Income Plan was formed with effect from the close of business on 31 December 2004 by the merger of the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan and the Household International Retirement Income Plan.
This plan covers employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance, and certain other employees of HSBC USA.
It comprises a final average pay plan now closed to new participants and a cash balance plan.
All new employees participate in the cash balance plan.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan was made at 1 January 2007 by Pedro Nebres, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and John P. Ennenbach, Enrolled Actuary, of Mercer.
Both are members of the American Academy of Actuaries.
At that date, the market value of the merged plans assets was US$2,577 million and the actuarial value of assets was US$2,504 million.
The actuarial value of the assets represented 119 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The resulting surplus amounted to US$407 million.
The method employed for this valuation was the projected unit credit method and the main assumptions used were a discount rate of 8 per cent per annum and average salary increases of 3.75 per cent per annum.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme, and the HSBC North America U. S. Retirement Income Plan cover 33 per cent of HSBCs employees.
HSBC healthcare benefits plans HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Canada, Mexico, France and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded.
Post-employment healthcare benefits plans are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.
Total healthcare cost was US$33 million 2006: US$62 million: 2005: US$58 million.
368 Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2007, were as follows.
The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2006, were as follows.
The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2005, were as follows.
2 The 2005 rate of pay increase assumptions disclosed have been increased from 3.2 per cent to 3.7 per cent to reflect an age-related promotional salary scale that was included in the obligation calculation but not in the disclosed assumption.
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality AA rated or equivalent debt instruments, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
The expected return on plan assets represents the best estimate of long-term future asset returns, which takes into account historical market returns plus additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates.
Mortality assumptions are increasingly significant in measuring the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans, particularly given the maturity of the plans.
2 PA92 year of birth with medium cohort improvements.
Actuarial assumption sensitivities The discount rate is sensitive to changes in market conditions arising during the reporting period.
The mortality rates used are sensitive to experience from the plan member profile.
Plan assets include US$86 million 2006: US$87 million of equities issued by HSBC and US$572 million 2006: US$188 million of other assets issued by HSBC.
The fair value of plan assets includes derivatives entered into with the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme with a positive fair value of US$248 million at 31 December 2007 2006: US$273 million negative fair value and US$63 million positive fair value 2006: US$14 million positive fair value in respect of The HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefit Scheme.
Further details of these swap arrangements are included in Note 44.
HSBC expects to make US$671 million of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2008.
Total cumulative actuarial gains recognised in equity at 31 December 2007 were US$563 million 2006: US$1,543 million cumulative losses.
The total effect of the limit on plan surpluses recognised within actuarial losses in equity during 2007 was a US$42 million loss excluding exchange differences of US$4 million 2006: US$2 million loss and exchange difference of nil.
HSBC expects to make US$18 million 2006: US$19 million of contributions to post-employment healthcare benefit plans during 2008.
94 25 63 20 Total net actuarial gains losses.................................. 103 38 43 5 Actuarial gains and losses represent experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities as well as adjustments arising from changes in actuarial assumptions.
Total cumulative net actuarial gains recognised in equity at 31 December 2007 were US$27 million 2006: US$76 million cumulative losses.
The actuarial assumptions of the healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts recognised.
A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects on amounts recognised in 2007: 2007 2006 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m Increase decrease of the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost................................................... 14 10 8 6 Increase decrease of defined benefit obligation........ 110 100 103 111 HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings employees in 2007 amounted to US$257 million 2006: US$193 million.
The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2007 was 595 2006: 505.
Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme.
HSBC Holdings pays contributions to plans in accordance with schedules determined by the Trustees following consultation with qualified actuaries.
The provision at 31 December 2007 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$18,491,117 2006: US$17,759,454.
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$545,854 2006: US$889,241, including US$460,564 2006: US$395,740 arising from a Directors waiver of bonus.
376 Discretionary bonuses for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Details of Directors remuneration, share options and conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan 2000 and The HSBC Share Plan are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 322 to 332.
9 Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the statutory audit amounted to US$52.3 million 2006: US$44.7 million: 2005: US$47.0 million.
They exclude amounts payable for the statutory audit of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries which have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to HSBC.
2 Including fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of HSBCs subsidiaries.
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
Other services pursuant to legislation included fees paid to KPMG in respect of work relating to preparation for reporting under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of US$1.6 million 2006: US$2.2 million: 2005: US$11.7 million.
Other accounting firms were paid a total of US$2.5 million 2006: US$8.3 million: 2005: US$16.7 million for work on this project.
4 Including tax compliance services and tax advisory services.
5 Including advice on IT security and business continuity and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures.
6 Including fees payable to KPMG for transaction-related work, including US debt issuances.
7 Including other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice and review of financial models.
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, valuation and actuarial services, services related to litigation, and services related to recruitment and remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$3.4 million 2006: US$2.1 million: 2005: US$4.5 million by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are 377 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 10 disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group.
10 Share-based payments During 2007, US$870 million was charged to the income statement in respect of share-based payment transactions settled in equity 2006: US$854 million: 2005: US$540 million.
This expense, which was computed from the fair values of the share-based payment transactions when contracted, arose under employee share awards made in accordance with HSBCs reward structures.
Calculation of fair values Fair values of share options awards, measured at the date of grant of the option award, are calculated using a binomial lattice model methodology that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes model.
When modelling options awards with vesting dependent on HSBCs Total Shareholder Return TSR over a period, the TSR performance targets are incorporated into the model using Monte Carlo simulation.
The expected life of options depends on the behaviour of option holders, which is incorporated into the option model on the basis of historic observable data.
The fair values calculated are inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted were as follows: HSBC 1-year 3-year 5-year Holdings  Related Related Related Share Option Share Option Share Option Share Option The HSBC Plan Plan Plans Plans Share Plan 2007 1 Risk-free interest rate %......... 5.6 5.5 5.4 2 Expected life years.................. 1 3 5 3 Expected volatility %.............. 17 17 17 Share price at grant date........ 9.24 9.24 9.24 2006 1 Risk-free interest rate %......... 4.7 4.8 4.7 2 Expected life years.................. 1 3 5 3 Expected volatility %.............. 17 17 17 Share price at grant date........ 9.54 9.54 9.54 2005 1 Risk-free interest rate %......... 4.6 4.3 4.3 4.3 2 Expected life years.................. 7.8 3 5 5 3 Expected volatility %.............. 20 20 20 20 Share price at grant date........ 8.30 8.68 8.68 8.37 1 The risk-free rate was determined from the UK gilts yield curve for the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan awards and UK Savings-Related Share Option Plans.
A similar yield curve was used for the International Savings-Related Share Option Plans.
2 Expected life is not a single input parameter but a function of various behavioural assumptions.
3 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded options over HSBC shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options.
Expected dividends are incorporated into the valuation model for options and shares, where applicable.
The expected US dollar denominated dividend growth was determined to be 10 per cent for the first 3 years 2006: 9 per cent for first year and 8 per cent thereafter 2006: 8 per cent, in line with consensus analyst forecasts.
The HSBC Share Plan The HSBC Share Plan was adopted by HSBC Holdings in 2005.
Under this plan, performance share awards, restricted share awards and share option awards may be made.
The aim of the HSBC Share Plan is to align the interests of executives with the creation of shareholder value and recognise individual performance and potential.
Awards are also made under this plan for recruitment and retention purposes.
Performance share awards Performance shares are awarded to executive Directors and other senior executives after taking into account individual performance in the previous year.
Each award is divided into two equal parts for testing attainment against 378 pre-determined benchmarks.
One half of the award is subject to a TSR measure, based on HSBCs ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks: the other half is subject to an earnings per share target.
For each element of the award, shares are released to the employee on a sliding scale from 30 to 100 per cent of the award, depending on the scale of achievement against the benchmarks, providing that the minimum criteria for each performance measure has been met and subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that HSBCs financial performance has shown a sustained improvement in the period since the award date.
The shares vest after three years to the extent that the vesting conditions are satisfied.
Restricted share awards Restricted shares are awarded to other employees on the basis of their performance, potential and retention requirements, to aid recruitment or as a part-deferral of annual bonuses.
Shares are awarded without corporate performance conditions and generally vest between one and three years from the date of award, providing the employees have remained continually employed by HSBC for this period.
Share options Share options were granted in 2005 under The HSBC Share Plan to employees in France on the basis of their performance in the previous year.
The share options are subject to the corporate performance conditions, which consist of an absolute earnings per share measure and a TSR measure based on HSBC Holdings ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks.
The options may vest after three years and are exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, after which they will lapse.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date was 2.4 years 2006: 3.3 years.
The exercise price range of options outstanding at the balance sheet date was 8.79 - 9.17.
None of these options were exercisable at the balance sheet date.
379 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 10 Savings-related share option plans Savings-related share option plans invite eligible employees to enter into savings contracts to save up to 250 per month or its equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros, with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
The aim of the plans is to align the interests of all employees with the creation of shareholder value.
The options are exercisable within three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract or within six months following either the third or the fifth anniversaries of the commencement of three-year or five-year savings contracts, respectively.
The exercise price is set at a 20 per cent 2006: 20 per cent discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount is applied.
HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 Performance share awards made under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 the Restricted Share Plan Performance share awards under the Restricted Share Plan were granted to senior executives from 2000 to 2004.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of executives with the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain TSR targets against a peer group of major banks which would normally have to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
In addition to these performance conditions, none of the outstanding awards will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that, during the performance period, HSBC has achieved sustained growth.
Following adoption of The HSBC Share Plan in 2005, no further awards will be made under this Plan other than from reinvested scrip dividends.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2007 was 0.2 years 2006: 1.5 years.
380 Restricted share awards made under the Restricted Share Plan Restricted share awards under the Restricted Share plan were granted to eligible employees from 2000 to 2005, after taking into account the employees performance in the previous year, their potential and retention requirements.
Restricted shares were also awarded as part-deferral of annual bonuses or for recruitment purposes.
Shares were awarded without corporate performance conditions and generally vest between one and three years from the date of award, providing the employees have remained continuously employed by HSBC for the period.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2007 was 0.3 years 2006: 0.8 years.
HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan was a long-term incentive plan under which certain HSBC employees between 2000 and 2005 were awarded share options.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of those higher performing employees with the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain TSR targets which would normally have to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options were granted at market value and are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
Options granted after May 2005 are made under The HSBC Share Plan.
In 2006, after consideration of the performance and shareholder returns over the period between 2003 and 2005, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to waive the TSR performance condition in respect of the awards made under this plan in 2003.
As a result, a charge of US$135 million was recognised in 2006, reflecting the incremental fair value granted measured at the date the performance condition was waived.
This was measured using a binomial lattice model methodology that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes model, as 381 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 10 and 11 described above in Calculation of fair values.
A risk-free interest rate of 4.3 per cent was used, with all other inputs to the model consistent with those used to value the other share options and awards made during 2006.
HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme The HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme was a long-term incentive plan under which certain senior HSBC employees were awarded share options before the adoption of the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan in 2000.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of those higher performing senior employees with the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain TSR targets to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options were granted at market value and were exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
The number of options, weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date, analysed by exercise price range, were as follows: 2007 2006 6.01 - 7.87 2.17 6.00 6.01 7.87 Exercise price range......................................................................................
Options over HSBC France shares granted between 1994 and 1999 vested upon announcement of HSBCs agreement to acquire HSBC France and were therefore included in the valuation of HSBC France.
HSBC France granted 909,000 options in 2000 after the public announcement of the acquisition and these options did not vest as a result of the change in control.
The options were subject to continued employment and vested on 1 January 2002.
The HSBC France shares obtained on exercise of the options are exchangeable for HSBCs ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for HSBC France shares 13 ordinary shares of US$0.50 for each HSBC France share.
Options were granted at market value and are exercisable within 10 years of the date of grant.
382 The weighted average share price at the date the share options were exercised was US$18.08 2006: US$17.64.
At the date of its acquisition in 2000, certain of HSBC Frances subsidiary companies also operated employee share option plans under which options could be granted over their respective shares.
On exercise of certain of these options, the subsidiary shares are exchanged for HSBC ordinary shares.
The total number of HSBC ordinary shares exchanged under such arrangements in 2007 was 113,240 2006: 356,491.
HSBC Finance Corporation Upon acquisition, HSBC Finance share options previously granted were converted to share options over HSBC ordinary shares of US$0.50 each at a rate of 2.675 HSBC share options the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for HSBC Finance for each HSBC Finance share option.
Options granted under HSBC Finances own share option schemes prior to the announcement of the acquisition by HSBC in November 2002 vested as options over HSBC shares upon acquisition by HSBC.
Options granted after the announcement of the acquisition in November 2002 but prior to its completion on 28 March 2003 generally vest equally over four years and expire ten years from the date of grant.
The weighted average share price at the date the share options were exercised was US$18.08 2006: US$17.65.
Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$1,137 million 2006: US$751 million: 2005: US$639 million.
Subsidiaries in Hong Kong provided for Hong Kong profits tax at the rate of 17.5 per cent 2006: 17.5 per cent: 2005: 17.5 per cent on the profits for the year assessable in Hong Kong.
Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
The following table reconciles the tax expense which would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate: 383 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 11 2007 2006 2005 US$m % US$m % US$m % Analysis of tax expense Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006 and 2005: 30%.................. 7,264 30.0 6,626 30.0 6,290 30.0 Effect of taxing overseas profits in 1,460 6.0 568 2.6 342 1.6 principal locations at different rates....... 296 1.2 199 0.9 220 1.0 Tax-free gains.............................................
2 The effect of previously unrecognised temporary differences principally relates to the recognition of capital losses.
3 The gains arising from the dilution of HSBCs interests in associates are not subject to tax and, as such, there is a reconciling item which reduces the effective tax rate see note 21.
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax, relating to items that are taken directly to total equity, was a US$226 million reduction in total equity 2006: US$44 million reduction in total equity: 2005: US$437 million increase in total equity.
The 2007 Finance Act reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 30 per cent to 28 per cent, enacted in 2007 but commencing in 2008, resulted in a one off re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
It gave rise to a credit to the Groups tax charge of US$28 million.
Of this amount, US$750 million 2006: US$876 million has no expiry date and US$173 million 2006: US$191 million is scheduled to expire within 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures where remittance is not contemplated or where no additional tax is expected to arise.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments is US$29,947 million 2006: US$22,424 million: 2005: US$15,367 million.
The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 7 May 2008 to shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 25 March 2008.
No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2007.
13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the earnings of US$19,043 million 2006: US$15,699 million: 2005: US$15,060 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, excluding own shares held, outstanding in 2007 of 11,545 million 2006: 11,210 million: 2005: 11,038 million.
2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company.............................. 19,133 15,789 15,081 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity........................... 90 90 21 Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company.......... 19,043 15,699 15,060 Diluted earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares including share options outstanding not yet exercised, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on ordinary conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2007 of 11,661 million 2006: 11,320 million: 2005: 11,171 million.
14 Segmental analysis In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures.
By geographical region Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary, or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds.
Due to the nature of HSBCs structure, the analysis of profits shown below includes intra-HSBC items between geographical regions with the elimination shown in a separate column.
The Rest of Asia-Pacific geographical segment includes the Middle East, India and Australasia.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
390 By customer group HSBCs operations include a number of shared support services and head office functions.
The costs of these functions are allocated to customer groups, where appropriate, on a systematic and consistent basis.
In addition, a number of income and expense items include the effect of financial transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business between customer groups co-operating within the integrated HSBC Group.
The following analysis includes inter-segment amounts within each customer group with the elimination shown in a separate column.
391 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 14 and 15 Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global IntraFinancial Commercial Banking Private HSBC Services Banking & Markets Banking Other items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 26,076 7,514 3,168 1,011 625 2,658 34,486 Net fee income............................ 8,762 3,207 3,718 1,323 172 17,182 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
392 Year ended 31 December 2005 Personal Global IntraFinancial Commercial Banking Private HSBC Services Banking & Markets Banking Other items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 23,351 6,310 3,001 848 472 1,704 31,334 Net fee income............................ 7,313 2,876 2,967 1,080 220 14,456 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
The summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 describes how the classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category as defined in IAS 39 and by balance sheet heading.
Derivatives enable users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks.
HSBC makes markets in derivatives for its customers and uses derivatives to manage its exposure to credit and market risks.
Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Asset values represent the cost to HSBC of replacing all transactions with a fair value in HSBCs favour assuming that all HSBCs relevant counterparties default at the same time, and that transactions can be replaced instantaneously.
Liability values represent the cost to HSBCs counterparties of replacing all their transactions with HSBC with a fair value in their favour if HSBC were to default.
Derivative assets and liabilities on different transactions are only set off if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.
Use of derivatives HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, for proprietary trading purposes, and to manage and hedge HSBCs own risks.
Derivatives except for derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39 are held for trading.
The held for trading classification includes two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those used for risk 399 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 18 management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting.
The second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value.
These activities are described more fully below.
HSBCs derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives.
These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels, with matching deals being utilised to achieve this where necessary.
When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management procedures to assess and approve potential credit exposures that are used for traditional lending.
Derivative assets with a carrying amount of US$123,041 million or 65.5 per cent of the total carrying amount 2006: US$67,628 million: 65.2 per cent are held with banking counterparties, and US$46,789 million or 24.9 per cent of the total carrying amount 2006: US$26,811 million: 25.9 per cent with other financial institutions.
The remainder are held with government and other counterparties.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from short-term fluctuations in price or margin.
Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit from expected changes in exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters.
Trading includes market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume: positioning means managing market risk positions in the expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices: arbitrage involves identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products.
As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness.
Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in Net trading income, except for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, together with the gains and losses on the hedged items.
Changes in the fair values of trading derivatives are inclusive of contractual interest.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value are included in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value inclusive of contractual interest unless the derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, in which case the contractual interest is shown in interest payable with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties.
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty.
Trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.
Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Groups loan portfolios.
The contract amount of credit derivatives of US$1,893,802 million 2006: US$1,109,828 million consisted of protection bought of US$926,794 million 2006: US$540,229 million and protection sold of US$967,008 million 2006: US$569,599 million.
The difference between these notional amounts is attributable to HSBC selling protection on large, diversified, predominantly investment grade portfolios including the most senior tranches and then hedging these positions by buying protection on the more subordinated tranches of the same portfolios.
In addition, HSBC uses securities to hedge certain derivative positions.
Consequently, while there is a mismatch in notional amounts of credit derivatives bought and sold this should not be interpreted as representing the open risk position.
The credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described from page 248.
This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities.
The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of hedge transactions.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or investment hedges.
These are described under the relevant headings below: Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedging purposes by product type At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006 Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value hedge hedge hedge hedge US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange.......................................................... 21,641 3,116 21,765 2,985 Interest rate................................................................... 248,134 34,897 201,635 24,279 Equities.......................................................................... 24 30 269,775 38,037 223,400 27,294 401 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 18 and 19 With respect to exchange rate and interest rate contracts, the notional contract amounts of these instruments indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
Fair value hedges HSBCs fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement.
If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to the income statement as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period.
Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Gains and losses are initially recognised directly in equity, in the cash flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income statement.
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in Net trading income.
During the year to 31 December 2007, a loss of US$77 million 2006: US$122 million was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations HSBCs consolidated balance sheet is affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of subsidiaries.
HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.
At 31 December 2007, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were liabilities of US$450 million 2006: US$254 million and notional contract values of US$1,204 million 2006: US$995 million.
The ineffectiveness recognised in Net trading income in the year ended 31 December 2007 that arose from hedges in foreign operations was nil 2006: nil.
The fair value of these was US$143,023 million 2006: US$86,596 million.
Included within listed investments were US$2,066 million 2006: US$1,179 million of investments listed in Hong Kong.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities in the above table is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2007 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date.
The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
405 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 20 and 21 20 Securitisations and other structured transactions HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers recognised financial assets directly to third parties or to SPEs.
These transfers may give rise to the full or partial derecognition of the financial assets concerned.
Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The risks include credit, interest rate, currency, prepayment and other price risks.
Partial derecognition occurs when HSBC sells or otherwise transfers financial assets in such a way that some but not substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred but control is retained.
These financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of HSBCs continuing involvement.
The majority of financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are i debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or ii equity securities lent under securities lending agreements.
The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated financial liabilities: 2007 2006 Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying amount of amount of amount of amount of transferred associated transferred associated assets liabilities assets liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Nature of transaction Repurchase agreements................................................ 126,534 126,111 67,558 66,127 Securities lending agreements...................................... 24,087 23,304 12,908 12,469 150,621 149,415 80,466 78,596 A small proportion of financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition relate to loans, credit cards, debt securities and trade receivables that have been securitised under arrangements by which HSBC retains a continuing involvement in such transferred assets.
Continuing involvement may entail retaining the rights to future cash flows arising from the assets after investors have received their contractual terms for example, interest rate strips : providing subordinated interest: liquidity support: continuing to service the underlying asset: or entering into derivative transactions with the securitisation vehicles.
As such, HSBC continues to be exposed to risks associated with these transactions.
The rights and obligations that HSBC retains from its continuing involvement in securitisations are initially recorded as an allocation of the fair value of the financial asset between the part that is derecognised and the part that continues to be recognised on the date of transfer.
2 Listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange on 31 October 2007.
2 Issued equity capital is less than HK$1 million.
3 Investment held through Hang Seng Bank Limited, a 62.14 per cent owned subsidiary of HSBC.
4 Issued equity capital is less than US$1 million.
All the above investments in associates are owned by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings.
HSBC had US$7,747 million 2006: US$4,747 million of investments in associates and joint ventures listed in Hong Kong.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, HSBCs share of associates and joint ventures tax on profit was US$469 million 2006: US$279 million, which is included within share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the income statement.
HSBCs significant influence was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, HSBC is assisting in the development of financial and operating policies.
HSBCs investment in Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited was equity accounted with effect from 31 August 2005, reflecting HSBCs significant influence over this associate.
HSBCs significant influence was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors.
HSBCs significant influence in Bank of Communications Co. Limited was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, HSBC is assisting in the development of financial and operating policies and a number of staff have been seconded to assist in this process.
The statutory accounting reference date of Bank of Communications Co. Limited, Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited and Industrial Bank Company Limited is 31 December.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, these companies were included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September 2007, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2007 to 31 December 2007 that would have materially affected their results.
HSBC also has a 100 per cent interest in the issued preferred stock less than US$1 million of Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. HSBC has a 40 per cent economic interest in Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. by virtue of the joint agreement under which HSBCs equity capital and preferred stock interests are being held.
HSBCs investment in Financiera Independencia S. A. fide C. V. was equity accounted with effect from June 2006, reflecting HSBCs significant influence over this associate.
HSBCs influence results from representation on the Board of Directors.
HSBC acquired 15 per cent of Vietnam Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank in October 2007.
This investment was equity accounted from that date due to HSBCs representation on the Board of Directors and involvement in the Technical Support and Assistance Agreement.
In December 2007, as a result of a rights issue in which HSBC did not participate, HSBCs equity interest was diluted to 14.44 per cent.
HSBC acquired 13.95 per cent of VocaLink in June 2007.
This investment was equity accounted from that date, reflecting HSBCs significant influence over that entity arising from representation on the Board of Directors and transactions with the associate.
During the year, certain HSBC associates issued new shares which HSBC did not subscribe for.
As a result, its interests in the associates equity decreased.
The resulting gains from dilution of the Groups interest in the associates are described in Note 4.
Principal interests in joint ventures At 31 December 2007 HSBCs interest in Issued Country of Principal equity equity incorporation activity capital capital HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited......................................... Saudi Arabia Investment 60% SR50m banking Vaultex UK Limited............................................ England Cash 50% 10m management 408 HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited was established as a joint venture between HSBC and The Saudi British Bank with effect from July 2006.
The ownership of HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited is split between HSBC, with 60 per cent, and The Saudi British Bank, with 40 per cent.
The strategic financial and operating decisions of HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited require the unanimous consent of HSBC and The Saudi British Bank.
Impairment testing in respect of goodwill is performed annually by comparing the recoverable amount of cash-generating units CGUs determined at 1 July 2007 based on a value in use calculation.
That calculation uses cash flow estimates based on managements cash flow projections, extrapolated in perpetuity using a nominal long-term growth rate based on current market assessment of GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates.
Cash flows are extrapolated in perpetuity due to the long-term perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs.
The pre-tax discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU operates.
The cost of capital assigned to an individual CGU and used to discount its future cash flows can have a significant effect on its valuation.
The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from an appropriate capital asset pricing model, which itself depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate in the country concerned and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are established on the basis of management judgement and current market assessments of economic variables.
Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of the CGUs.
These values are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available, and to assumptions regarding the longterm sustainable pattern of cash flows thereafter.
While the acceptable range within which underlying 409 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 22 assumptions can be applied is governed by the requirement for resulting forecasts to be compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data in future years, the cash flow forecasts necessarily and appropriately reflect managements view of future business prospects.
It is HSBCs policy to retest goodwill when there are indications that conditions have changed since the last goodwill impairment test such that a different outcome may result.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Personal Financial Services North America CGU experienced deterioration in economic and credit conditions, and carried out restructuring in certain operations.
As a result, goodwill impairment was retested as at 31 December 2007.
This testing confirmed that, notwithstanding the effects of the above factors, goodwill for the CGU as a whole remained unimpaired.
The following CGUs include in their carrying value goodwill that is a significant proportion of total goodwill reported by HSBC.
These CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
2007 2006 Nominal Nominal growth rate growth rate beyond beyond Goodwill at initial Goodwill at initial 1 July Discount cash flow 1 July Discount cash flow Cash-generating unit 2007 rate projections 2006 rate projections US$m % % US$m % % Personal Financial Services Europe................ 4,197 10.3 5.2 4,149 10.6 5.0 Commercial Banking Europe.......................... 3,045 10.1 4.6 2,948 10.2 4.5 Private Banking Europe................................... 4,694 10.0 3.8 4,417 10.0 4.2 Global Banking and Markets Europe.............. 3,894 10.1 4.4 3,792 8.2 4.5 Personal Financial Services North America.... 10,160 12.3 4.0 10,169 10.0 5.8 Personal Financial Services Latin America..... 2,781 16.4 7.8 1,753 16.0 8.2 Total goodwill in the CGUs listed above........... 28,771 27,228 At 1 July 2007, aggregate goodwill of US$4,254 million had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant.
410 The PVIF represents the value of the shareholders interest in the in-force business of the life insurance operations.
The calculation of the PVIF is based upon assumptions that take into account risk and uncertainty.
To project these cash flows, a variety of assumptions regarding future experience is made by each insurance operation which reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of local future trends.
Some of the Groups insurance operations incorporate risk margins separately into the projection assumptions for each product, while others incorporate risk margins into the overall discount rate.
This is reflected in the wide range of risk discount rates applied.
2 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights that is charged to net fee income.
1 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$13 million 2006: US$11 million.
2 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$397 million 2006: US$450 million.
3 Including assets with a net book value of US$422 million 2006: US$425 million pledged as security for liabilities.
4 At 31 December 2007, HSBC had US$1,011 million 2006: US$1,380 million of contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment.
Investment properties are valued on an open market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional valuers who have recent experience in the location and type of properties.
Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent 25 per cent by value of HSBCs investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited, which is a member of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors.
Included within Other operating income was rental income of US$42 million 2006: US$153 million earned by HSBC on its investment properties.
Direct operating expenses of US$3 million 2006: US$61 million incurred in respect of the investment properties during the year were recognised in General and administrative expenses.
Direct operating expenses arising in respect of investment properties that did not generate rental income during 2007 amounted to nil 2006: nil.
HSBC recognised US$22 million 2006: US$144 million as contractual obligations to purchase, construct, develop, maintain or enhance investment properties.
413 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 24 HSBC Holdings had no investment properties at 31 December 2007 or 2006.
HSBC properties leased to customers HSBC properties leased to customers included US$387 million at 31 December 2007 2006: US$470 million let under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation of US$18 million 2006: US$53 million.
None was held by HSBC Holdings.
2 Issued equity capital is less than US$1 million.
3 Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 28 Debt securities in issue, 32 Subordinated liabilities and 37 Minority interests, respectively.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.
Details of all HSBC companies will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
414 All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC La Buenos Aires Seguros S. A. and Maxima S. A. AFJP, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East and HSBC Life International Limited which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
Subsidiaries which experience significant restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to HSBC in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans and advances During 2007 and 2006, none of the Groups subsidiaries have experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Subsidiaries excluding SPEs where HSBC owns less than 50 per cent of the voting rights HSBCs interest in Description of relationship Subsidiary equity capital that gives HSBC control % 2007 HSBC Private Equity Fund 3.................................. 38.8 HSBC has been appointed as investment adviser manager of the fund and is therefore deemed to have control in the fund.
2006 HSBC Private Equity Fund 3.................................. 38.8 HSBC has been appointed as investment adviser manager of the fund and is therefore deemed to have control in the fund.
HSBC also consolidates a number of other individually insignificant SPEs where it owns less than 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Acquisitions HSBC made the following acquisitions of subsidiaries or business operations in 2007, which were accounted for using the purchase method: 415 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 24, 25, 26 and 27 On 26 March 2007, the Group, through its subsidiary, HSBC France, acquired the 50.01 per cent of Erisa S. A. and Erisa I.
A. R. D. together now re-named HSBC Assurances shares not already owned, raising the total holding in each entity to 100 per cent.
HSBC Assurances is a group of companies offering life, property and casualty insurance products through HSBC Frances networks.
HSBC paid a cash consideration of US$304 million in respect of this acquisition.
The fair value of the assets acquired exceeded the cash consideration by US$17 million and this excess has been recognised within other operating income in the income statement.
The first is as a result of the repossession of property that had been pledged as collateral by customers.
These assets are expected to be disposed of within 12 months of acquisition.
Neither a gain nor loss was recognised on reclassifying these assets as held for sale.
The majority arose within the geographical segment, North America.
Secondly, on 31 May 2007, HSBC entered into a contract for the sale and leaseback of the property and long leasehold land comprising 8 Canada Square, London to Metrovacesa, S. A. Metrovacesa for 1,090 million US$2,154 million.
Under the terms of this arrangement, HSBC leased the building back from Metrovacesa for a period of 20 years at an annual rent of 43.5 million US$87 million, with annual upward-only rent reviews linked to the RPI all items and subject to an annual maximum and minimum increase of 6 per cent and 2.5 per cent, respectively.
In the normal course of business, HSBC provided finance to Metrovacesa in respect of the debt element of this transaction at arms length market rates in the form of a bridging loan of 810 million US$1,601 million, secured by a charge on the property.
The bridging loan had an original maturity date of 30 November 2007 and was extended with a new facility provided by HSBC with a maturity date of 30 November 2008.
The equity portion of 280 million US$553 million was settled in cash by Metrovacesa on 31 May 2007.
The sale has not been recognised in the financial statements at 31 December 2007 because HSBC has retained a significant interest by virtue of the loan provided to part-finance the purchase of the building.
Accordingly, 8 Canada Square is presented within Non-current assets held for sale with a carrying value of US$884 million.
The equity portion received from Metrovacesa is presented in the balance sheet as deferred income with a value at 31 December 2007 of US$562 million.
It is expected that the sale will be recognised by HSBC when the bridging loan is repaid.
At 31 December 2007, the accumulated amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a gain of US$1,619 million 2006: loss of US$1,535 million.
At 31 December 2007, the accumulated amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a gain of US$548 million 2006: loss of US$335 million.
The hedged portion of these debt securities is presented within the balance sheet caption Financial liabilities designated at fair value, with the remaining portion included within Trading liabilities.
These include death claims, surrenders, lapses, the setting up of liability to policyholders at the initial inception of the policy, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
Included within Provisions are: i Provisions for onerous property contracts of US$56 million 2006: US$106 million, of which US$33 million 2006: US$71 million relates to discounted future costs associated with leasehold properties that became vacant as a consequence of HSBCs move to Canary Wharf in 2002.
The provisions cover rent voids while finding new tenants, shortfalls in expected rent receivable compared with rent payable and the cost of refurbishing the buildings to attract tenants.
Uncertainties arise from movements in market rents, delays in finding new tenants and the timing of rental reviews.
ii Labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions in HSBCs Brazil operations of US$391 million 2006: US$282 million.
These relate to labour and overtime litigation claims brought by employees after leaving the bank.
The provisions are based on the expected number of departing employees, their individual salaries and historical trends.
The timing of the settlement of these claims is uncertain.
iii Provisions of US$444 million 2006: US$749 million have been made in respect of costs arising from contingent liabilities and contractual commitments Note 41, including guarantees of US$29 million 2006: US$64 million and commitments of US$125 million 2006: US$93 million.
Interest rates on the floating rate loan capital are related to interbank offered rates.
On the remaining subordinated loan capital, interest is payable at fixed rates up to 10.176 per cent.
1 See Step-up perpetual preferred securities below, note a Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings.
2 See Step-up perpetual preferred securities below, note b Guaranteed by HSBC Bank.
3 The interest margin on the 800m and US$450m callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 increases by 0.5 per cent from March 2011 and July 2011, respectively.
423 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 32 4 The distributions on the trust preferred securities change in November 2015 to three-month dollar LIBOR plus 1.926 per cent.
5 The interest rate on the 4.75 per cent callable subordinated notes 2020 changes in September 2015 to three-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.82 per cent.
6 The interest rate on the 4.25 per cent callable subordinated notes changes in March 2011 to three-month EURIBOR plus 1.05 per cent.
7 The interest rate on the callable subordinated variable coupon notes 2017 is fixed at 5.75 per cent until June 2012.
Thereafter, the rate per annum is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.70 per cent.
8 The interest margin on the callable subordinated floating rate notes 2020 increases by 0.5 per cent from September 2015.
9 The interest rate on the 5 per cent callable subordinated notes 2023 changes in March 2018 to become the rate per annum which is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80 per cent.
10 The interest rate on the 5.375 per cent callable subordinated step-up notes 2030 changes in November 2025 to three month sterling LIBOR plus 1.50 per cent.
11 The interest margin on the callable subordinated floating rate notes 2017 increases by 0.5 per cent from July 2012.
Footnotes 3 to 10 all relate to notes that are repayable at the option of the borrower on the date of the change of the interest rate, and at subsequent interest rate reset dates and interest payment dates in some cases, subject to the prior non objection of the Financial Services Authority and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
Step-up perpetual preferred securities a Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings The seven issues of non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities footnote 1 were made by Jersey limited partnerships and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Holdings.
The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to HSBC Holdings by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes.
The preferred securities qualify as innovative tier 1 capital for HSBC.
The preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Holdings that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Holdings.
The preferred securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2014, 2010, 2013, 2016, 2015, 2030 and 2012, respectively, at the option of the general partner of the limited partnerships.
If not redeemed, the distributions payable step-up and become floating rate or, for the sterling issue, for each successive five-year period the sum of the then five-year benchmark UK gilt plus a margin.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements, or if HSBC Holdings has insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings has covenanted that if it is prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, it will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of its ordinary shares, or effect repurchase or redemption of its ordinary shares, until after a distribution has been paid in full.
If i HSBCs total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or ii the Directors expect that, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, the former will occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Holdings having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together.
b Guaranteed by HSBC Bank The two issues of non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities footnote 2 were made by Jersey limited partnerships and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Bank.
The proceeds of the issues were onlent to HSBC Bank by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes.
The preferred securities qualify as innovative tier 1 capital for HSBC and for HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis and, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Bank that are equivalent to the rights they would have had if they had purchased noncumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Bank.
The two issues of preferred securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2031 and 2020, respectively, at the option of the general partner of the limited partnerships.
If not redeemed, the distributions payable step-up and become floating rate.
The same limitations on the payment of distributions apply to HSBC Bank as to HSBC Holdings, as described above.
HSBC Bank has provided a similar covenant to that provided by HSBC Holdings, also as described above.
If i any of the two issues of preferred securities are outstanding in November 2048 or April 2049, respectively, or ii the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or iii in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect ii to 424 occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together.
The notes are repayable from their step up date at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior non-objection of the Financial Services Authority.
2 The interest rate on the 6.375 per cent callable subordinated notes 2022 changes in October 2017 to become three-month sterling LIBOR plus 1.3 per cent.
The notes may be redeemed at par from October 2017 at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior non-objection of the Financial Services Authority.
3 The interest rate on the 3.625 per cent callable subordinated notes 2020 changes in June 2015 to become three-month EURIBOR plus 0.93 per cent.
The notes may be redeemed at par from June 2015 at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior non-objection of the Financial Services Authority.
4 The interest rate on the 9.875 per cent subordinated bonds 2018 changes in April 2013 to become the higher of i 9.875 per cent or ii the sum of the yield on the relevant benchmark treasury stock plus 2.5 per cent.
The bonds may be redeemed in April 2013 at par and redemption has also been allowed from April 1998, subject to the prior non-objection of the Financial Services Authority, for an amount based on the redemption yields of the relevant benchmark treasury stocks.
425 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 33 33 Fair values of financial instruments Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Financial instruments measured at fair value on an ongoing basis include trading assets and liabilities, instruments designated at fair value, derivatives, and financial investments classified as available-for-sale including treasury and other eligible bills, debt securities, and equity securities.
Fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework that aims to ensure that they are either determined, or validated, by a function independent of the risk-taker.
To this end, ultimate responsibility for the determination of fair values lies with Finance, which reports functionally to the Group Finance Director.
Finance establishes the accounting policies and procedures governing valuation, and is responsible for ensuring that these comply with all relevant accounting standards.
For fair values determined using a valuation model, the control framework may include, as applicable, independent development or validation of i valuation models: ii any inputs to those models: and iii any adjustments required outside of the valuation model, and, where possible, independent validation of model outputs.
For fair values determined without a valuation model, independent price determination or validation is utilised.
The results of independent validation processes are reported to senior management, and adjustments to the fair values are made as appropriate.
Determination of fair value Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: a Quoted market price Financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
b Valuation technique using observable inputs Financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
c Valuation technique with significant non-observable inputs Financial instruments valued using models where one or more significant inputs are not observable.
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market.
In the event that the market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data, and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is high.
However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are not observable.
For these instruments, the fair value derived is more judgemental.
Not observable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the level at which an arms length transaction would likely occur, but it generally does not mean that there is absolutely no market data available upon which to base a determination of fair value historical data may, for example, be used.
Furthermore, the assessment of hierarchy level is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value of the financial instrument.
Consequently, the level of uncertainty in the determination of the unobservable inputs will generally give rise to valuation uncertainty that is less than the fair value itself.
To assist in understanding the extent of this uncertainty, additional information is provided in respect of these instruments in the Effect of changes in significant non-observable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives section below.
In certain circumstances, HSBC applies the fair value option to its own debt in issue.
Where available, the fair value will be based upon quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument concerned.
Where unavailable, the fair value will either be based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the specific instrument concerned, or estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
The fair value of these instruments therefore includes the effect of the appropriate credit spread to apply to HSBCs liabilities.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the 426 debt, provided that the debt is not repaid early.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value.
The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
These market spreads are significantly smaller than credit spreads observed for plain vanilla debt or in the credit default swap markets.
All net positions in non-derivative financial instruments, and all derivative portfolios, are valued at bid or offer prices as appropriate.
Long positions are marked at bid prices: short positions are marked at offer prices.
The fair values of large holdings of non-derivative financial instruments are based on a multiple of the value of a single instrument, and do not include block adjustments for the size of the holding.
The valuation models used where quoted market prices are not available incorporate certain assumptions that HSBC anticipates would be used by a market participant to establish fair value.
Where HSBC believes that there are additional considerations not included within the valuation model, appropriate adjustments may be made.
Examples of such adjustments are: Credit risk adjustment: an adjustment to reflect the credit worthiness of over-the-counter OTC derivative counterparties.
Market data model uncertainty: an adjustment to reflect uncertainties in fair values based on unobservable market data inputs for example, as a result of illiquidity or in areas where the choice of valuation model is particularly subjective.
Inception profit day 1 P&L reserves : for financial instruments valued at inception, on the basis of one or more significant unobservable inputs, the difference between transaction price and model value as adjusted at inception is not recognised in the consolidated income statement, but is deferred and any unamortised balance is included as part of the fair value.
Transaction costs are not included in the fair value calculation.
Trade origination costs such as brokerage fees and post-trade costs are included in operating expenses.
The future costs of administering the OTC derivative portfolio are also not included in fair value, but are expensed as incurred.
Loans Loans are valued from broker quotes and or market data consensus providers where available.
Where unavailable, fair value will be determined based on an appropriate credit spread derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities.
Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills, and equities These instruments are valued based on quoted market prices from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group or pricing service, where available.
Where unavailable, fair value is determined by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments or, in the case of certain mortgage-backed securities and unquoted equities, valuation techniques using inputs derived from observable market data, and, where relevant, assumptions in respect of unobservable inputs.
Derivatives Over-the-counter i. e. non-exchange traded derivatives are valued using valuation models.
Valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon no-arbitrage principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For more complex derivative products, there may be some discrepancy in practice.
Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures.
Finally, some inputs are not observable, but can generally be estimated from historic data or other sources.
Examples of inputs that are generally observable include foreign exchange spot and forward rates, benchmark interest rate curves and volatility surfaces for commonly traded option products.
Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors.
427 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 33 Private equity HSBCs private equity positions are generally classified as available-for-sale and are not traded in an active market.
In the absence of an active market for the investment, fair value is estimated based upon an analysis of the investees financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors as well as reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership.
The exercise of judgement is required because of uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value for private equity investments.
The amount of trading assets reported in this category is higher at 31 December 2007 compared with 31 December 2006 reflects an increase in the amount of leveraged loans held by HSBC, and also reduced liquidity in certain markets during 2007, which affected the availability of market observable inputs for the valuation of certain types of loans and asset-backed securities.
Trading liabilities valued using a valuation technique with significant non-observable inputs have increased as a result of an increase in the issuance of structured note transactions, whereby HSBC issues equity-linked notes to investors which provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to the performance of certain unlisted securities, and holds the unlisted securities to match the liabilities.
Derivative products valued using a valuation technique with significant non-observable inputs include certain types of correlation products, particularly equity and foreign exchange basket options and foreign exchange-interest rate hybrid transactions, long-dated option transactions, particularly equity options, interest rate and foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives, including tranched credit default swap transactions and credit derivatives executed with certain monoline insurers.
Credit derivatives with these monoline insurers were included in the category of valuation techniques using observable inputs at 31 December 2006 and in the non-observable inputs category at 31 December 2007.
428 Available-for-sale financial investments and financial assets designated at fair value that are valued using non-observable inputs include holdings of private equity and unlisted debt securities.
Effect of changes in significant non-observable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives As discussed above, the fair value of financial instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation models that incorporate assumptions that are not supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data.
The following table shows the sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions.
Reflected in profit loss Reflected in equity Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Changes Changes Changes Changes US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2007 1 Derivatives trading assets trading liabilities............... 602 415 Financial assets liabilities designated at fair value...... 30 30 Financial investments: available-for-sale..................... 529 591 At 31 December 2006 Derivatives trading assets trading liabilities................. 69 72 Financial assets liabilities designated at fair value...... 16 16 Financial investments: available-for-sale...................... 165 165 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed.
The increase in the effect of changes in significant non-observable inputs in relation to derivatives trading assets trading liabilities from 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2007 primarily reflects certain mortgage loans acquired for the purpose of securitisation, and certain US mortgage-backed securities, that were valued using observable inputs at 31 December 2006 that subsequently became non-observable in the second half of 2007 following the deterioration in market conditions.
To a lesser degree, the increase also reflects increased uncertainty in determining the fair value of credit derivative transactions executed against certain monoline insurers, and a general increase in structured derivative business.
Changes in fair value recorded in the income statement The following table details changes in fair values recognised in profit or loss during the period, where the fair value is estimated using valuation techniques that incorporate significant assumptions that are not supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument, and are not based on observable market data: the table details the total change in fair value of these instruments: it does not isolate that component of the change that is attributable to the non-observable component: instruments valued with significant non-observable inputs are frequently dynamically hedged with instruments valued using observable inputs: the table does not include any changes in fair value of these hedges: and there were significant assets and liabilities valued using observable inputs at 31 December 2006 that became valued with significant unobservable inputs during 2007: the table reflects the full change in fair value of those instruments during 2007, not just that element arising following the category change.
Recorded profit loss 2007 2006 US$m US$m At 31 December 2007 Derivatives trading assets trading liabilities........................................................................................ 491 195 Financial assets liabilities designated at fair value.............................................................................. 9 5 The increase in fair value in 2007 primarily reflects increases in the fair value of credit derivatives purchased from certain monoline insurers to provide credit protection on portfolios of securities, offset by write-downs in mortgage loans acquired for the purpose of securitisation, and certain US mortgage-backed securities.
429 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 33 HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements: Valuation techniques: Quoted using with significant market observable non-observable price inputs inputs Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2007 Assets Derivatives.................................................................... 2,660 2,660 Financial investments: available-for-sale..................... 346 2,676 3,022 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value................................... 18,683 18,683 Derivatives.................................................................... 44 44 At 31 December 2006 Assets Derivatives.................................................................... 1,599 1,599 Financial investments: available-for-sale..................... 299 3,315 3,614 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value................................... 14,070 14,070 Derivatives.................................................................... 177 177 Financial investments measured using a valuation technique with significant non-observable inputs comprise fixedrate trust preferred securities and senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings.
The unobservable elements of the valuation technique include the use of implied credit spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions.
Movements in unobservable assumptions in fair value valuation models As discussed above, the fair value of financial instruments are in certain circumstances measured using valuation models that incorporate assumptions that are not supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data.
The following table shows the sensitivity of nonderivative financial instruments to reasonably possible alternative assumptions.
The calculation of fair value incorporates HSBCs estimate of the amount at which financial assets could be exchanged, or financial liabilities settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments cash flows over their expected future lives.
Other reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available, so comparisons of fair values between entities may not be meaningful and users are advised to exercise caution when using this data.
In recent months, the unstable market conditions in the US mortgage lending industry have resulted in a significant reduction in the secondary market demand for US consumer lending assets.
Uncertainty over the extent and timing of future credit losses, together with an absence of liquidity for non-prime asset-backed securities, were reflected in a lack of bid prices other than at distressed levels at 31 December 2007.
It is not possible to distinguish from these indicative market prices the relative discount that reflects cash flow impairment due to expected losses to maturity, 430 from the discount that the market is demanding for holding an illiquid asset.
Under IFRSs, HSBC recognises loan impairment based on losses incurred up to the balance sheet date: no recognition is given to losses which are expected to arise in the future, but where the loss event has not yet occurred.
Neither is the asset written down to reflect its illiquidity as the intention is to fund the asset until the earlier of its prepayment, charge-off or repayment on maturity.
Market fair values reflect not only incurred loss, but also loss expected through the life of the asset, as well as a discount for illiquidity and a credit spread which reflects the markets current risk preference rather than the credit spread which existed in the market at the time the loan was underwritten.
The estimated fair values at 31 December 2007 of loans and advances to customers in North America reflect the combined effect of these conditions.
This results in fair values that are substantially lower than the carrying value of customer loans held on-balance sheet and lower than would otherwise be reported under more normal market conditions.
Accordingly, the fair values reported do not reflect HSBCs estimate of the underlying long-term value of the assets.
The following types of financial instruments are measured at amortised cost unless they are held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Where assets or liabilities are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the assets or liabilities so hedged includes a fair value adjustment for the hedged risk only.
Fair values at the balance sheet date of the assets and liabilities set out below are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as follows: i Loans and advances to banks and customers The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available.
In the absence of observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow models.
Performing loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous pools segregated by maturity and coupon rates.
In general, contractual cash flows are discounted using HSBCs estimate of the discount rate that a market participant would use in valuing instruments with similar maturity, repricing and credit risk characteristics.
The fair value of a loan portfolio reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans.
For impaired loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
ii Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices.
The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration either the prices of, or future earnings streams of, equivalent quoted securities.
iii Deposits by banks and customer accounts For the purposes of estimating fair value, deposits by banks and customer accounts are grouped by residual maturity.
Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is assumed to be the amount payable on demand at the balance sheet date.
iv Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
The fair values in this note are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments.
In many cases, it would not be possible to realise immediately the estimated fair values given the size of the portfolios measured.
Accordingly, these fair values do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern.
For all classes of financial instruments, fair value represents the product of the value of a single instrument, multiplied by the number of instruments held.
No block discount or premium adjustments are made.
431 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 33 The fair values of intangible assets, such as values placed on portfolios of core deposits, credit card and customer relationships, are not included above because they are not financial instruments.
The following table lists financial instruments whose carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently: Assets Liabilities Cash and balances at central banks Hong Kong currency notes in circulation Items in the course of collection from other banks Items in the course of transmission to other banks Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness Endorsements and acceptances Endorsements and acceptances Short-term payables within Other liabilities Short-term receivables within Other assets Accruals Accrued income HSBC The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet: 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and advances to banks....................................... 237,366 237,374 185,205 185,151 Loans and advances to customers................................. 981,548 951,850 868,133 864,320 Financial investments: Treasury and other eligible bills..................................................... 45 45 Financial investments: debt securities.......................... 9,768 10,154 9,326 9,628 Liabilities Deposits by banks......................................................... 132,181 132,165 99,694 99,691 Customer accounts........................................................ 1,096,140 1,095,727 896,834 896,429 Debt securities in issue................................................. 246,579 243,802 230,325 231,189 Subordinated liabilities................................................. 24,819 23,853 22,672 22,468 The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial investments classified as held for sale which are not carried at fair value on the balance sheet: 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets classified as held for sale Loans and advances to banks....................................... 14 14 Loans and advances to customers................................. 634 630 Financial investments: Debt securities......................... 27 27 The following table provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment: 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers Europe........................................................................... 452,275 450,010 392,499 392,806 Hong Hong.................................................................... 89,638 89,908 84,282 84,659 Rest of Asia-Pacific...................................................... 101,852 101,860 77,574 77,429 1 North America............................................................. 289,860 262,123 277,987 273,903 Latin America............................................................... 47,923 47,949 35,791 35,523 981,548 951,850 868,133 864,320 1 The reasons for the significant difference between carrying amount and fair value of loans and advances to customers in North America are discussed on pages 430 to 431.
432 HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above.
The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet: 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings................ 17,242 17,356 14,456 14,537 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings........................ 2,969 2,992 3,100 3,155 Subordinated liabilities................................................. 8,544 8,609 8,423 9,439 34 Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities The following is an analysis, by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet date, of asset and liability line items that represent amounts expected to be recovered or settled within one year, and after more than one year.
Trading assets and liabilities are excluded because they are not held for collection or settlement over the period of contractual maturity.
Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised directly in equity.
HSBCs management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed in the Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk on page 256.
In its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings recognises its foreign exchange gains and losses on structural foreign exchange exposures in the income statement.
All resulting exchange differences on consolidation of foreign operations are recognised in a separate component of equity.
Shareholders equity would decrease by US$2,426 million 2006: US$1,988 million if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates weakened by 5 per cent relative to the US dollar.
Collateral accepted as security for assets The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is US$329,893 million 2006: US$188,008 million.
The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$212,956 million 2006: US$135,998 million.
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and reverse repurchase agreements.
2 The Series F preferred stock is redeemable at par at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, on any dividend payment date on or after 7 April 2010.
3 The Series G and Series H preferred stock are redeemable at par at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, at any time from 1 January 2011 and 1 July 2011, respectively.
4 The Series C and Series D preferred stock are redeemable at a declining premium above par at the option of HSBC Bank Canada, in whole or in part, from 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2010, respectively.
5 The preferred stock has been redeemable at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, from 1 July 1999 at par.
6 The preferred stock has been redeemable at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, from 1 October 2007 at par.
7 The preferred stock of each series is redeemable at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, on any dividend payment date at par.
This was redeemed in full in 2007.
436 All redemptions are subject to the prior non-objection of the Financial Services Authority and, where relevant, the local banking regulator.
38 Called up share capital Authorised The authorised ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2007 and 2006 was US$7,500 million divided into 15,000 million ordinary shares of US$0.50 each.
At 31 December 2007 and 2006, the authorised preference share capital of HSBC Holdings was 10 million noncumulative preference shares of 0.01 each, 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each, and 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each.
At 31 December 2007 and 2006, the authorised non-voting deferred share capital of HSBC Holdings was 301,500 divided into 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of 1 each.
The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend on the preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the preference shares for the thencurrent dividend period.
The preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings.
Holders of the preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the preference shares.
HSBC Holdings may redeem the preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to the prior non-objection of the FSA.
437 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 38 HSBC Holdings non-voting deferred shares The 301,500 non-voting deferred shares were in issue throughout 2006 and 2007 and are held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
Holders of the non-voting deferred shares are not entitled to receive dividends on these shares.
In addition, on winding-up or other return of capital, holders are entitled to receive the amount paid up on their shares after distribution to ordinary shareholders of 10 million in respect of each ordinary share held by them.
Shares under option Details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are given in Note 10.
On exercise of the options, the HSBC France shares are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as for the acquisition of HSBC France 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share.
During 2007, 280,850 2006: 445,115 HSBC France shares were issued following the exercise of employee share options and were exchanged for 3,651,050 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
These shares were delivered from The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
During 2007, no options over HSBC France shares lapsed 2006: nil.
During 2006 and 2007, no HSBC France shares previously issued following the exercise of employee share options were exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2007, The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
1 held 11,665,278 2006: 15,316,328 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC France shares arising from the exercise of options.
HSBC France options effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement were as follows: Number of HSBC France shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2007............................................... 1,007,031 2008 to 2010 73.50 142.50 31 December 2006................................................ 1,287,881 2007 to 2010 37.05 142.50 31 December 2005................................................ 1,732,996 2006 to 2010 35.52 142.50 HSBC Private Bank France plan There also exist outstanding options over the shares of HSBC Private Bank France, a subsidiary of HSBC France, which are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, the details of which are set out in the Directors Report on pages 313 and 314 and are summarised below.
438 On exercise of options over shares of HSBC Private Bank France, the HSBC Private Bank France shares are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 1.83 HSBC Holdings shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share.
During 2007, 61,880 2006: 194,804 HSBC Private Bank France shares were issued following the exercise of employee share options and exchanged for 113,234 2006: 356,472 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, such shares being delivered from The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Private Banking France.
During 2007, no options over HSBC Private Bank France shares lapsed 2006: nil.
During 2007, 8,819 2006: 6,000 HSBC Private Bank France shares previously issued following the exercise of employee share options were exchanged for 16,137 2006: 10,980 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2007, no 2006: 8,819 HSBC Private Bank France shares previously issued following the exercise of employees share options were exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
There were 340,976 HSBC Private Bank France employee share options exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2007 2006: 402,856.
At 31 December 2007, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Private Banking France held 955,952 2006: 1,085,323 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC Private Bank France shares arising from the exercise of options.
HSBC Private Bank France options including shares issued but not exchanged effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement were as follows: Number of HSBC Private Bank France shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2007............................................... 340,976 2008 to 2012 10.84 22.22 31 December 2006................................................ 411,675 2007 to 2012 10.84 22.22 31 December 2005................................................ 612,479 2006 to 2012 10.84 22.22 Banque Hervet plan On the acquisition of Banque Hervet in 2001, Banque Hervet shares were held in a Plan dEpargne Entreprise on behalf of Banque Hervet employees to vest and be released to employees over a 5 year period.
It was agreed to exchange these Banque Hervet shares, on vesting, for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 3.46 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Banque Hervet share.
During 2007, no 2006: 163,369 Banque Hervet shares were released in connection with the vesting of interests in the Plan dEpargne Entreprise and exchanged for any 2006: 565,151 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, such shares being delivered from The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Banque Hervet.
At 31 December 2007, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Banque Hervet held no 2006: nil HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Banque Hervet shares to be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement were as follows: Number of Banque Hervet shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of vesting 31 December 2007............................................................................................... 31 December 2006................................................................................................ 31 December 2005................................................................................................ 169,416 2006 HSBC Finance and subsidiary company plans Following the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all outstanding options and equity-based awards over HSBC Finance common shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share exchange offer for HSBC Finance 2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Finance common share and the exercise prices per share adjusted accordingly.
During 2007, options over 5,370,104 2006: 10,484,937 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were exercised and 4,602,172 2006: 9,781,228 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares delivered from The HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 to satisfy the exercise of these options.
During 2007, options over 399,823 2006: 300,555 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed.
At 31 December 2007, The HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held a total of 1,856,417 2006: 3,226,216 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 196,455 2006: 198,665 ADSs, each of which represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, which may be used to satisfy the exercise of these options and equity-based awards under the HSBC Finance share plans.
439 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 38 and 39 Options and equity-based awards outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Finance share plans were as follows: Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2007............................................... 21,728,010 2008 to 2012 nil US$21.37 31 December 2006................................................ 27,497,937 2007 to 2012 nil US$21.37 31 December 2005................................................ 38,107,930 2006 to 2012 nil US$21.37 Prior to its acquisition by HSBC Holdings, HSBC Finance issued 8.875 per cent Adjustable Conversion-Rate Equity Security Units Units which included a contract under which the holder agreed to purchase, for US$25 each, HSBC Finance common shares on 15 February 2006, with an option for early settlement.
The Units which remained outstanding following the acquisition of HSBC Finance were converted into contracts to purchase HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Units exercised at maturity, 15 February 2006, entitled the holder to receive a number of shares based on the market value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at the time, which was 2.6041 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Unit.
During 2007, no 2006: 3,424,742 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were issued in connection with the maturity of any 2006: 1,315,140 Units.
The maximum number of Units outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were as follows: Number of Units exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2007............................................... 31 December 2006................................................ 31 December 2005................................................ 1,315,140 2006 US$8.00 US$9.60 Bank of Bermuda plan Following the acquisition of Bank of Bermuda in 2004, all outstanding employee share options over Bank of Bermuda shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares based on the consideration of US$40 for each Bank of Bermuda share and the average closing price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days preceding the closing date of the acquisition.
During 2007, options over 377,046 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were exercised 2006: 529,233 and delivered from the HSBC Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 to satisfy the exercise of these options.
During 2007, options over 11,228 2006: 126,854 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed.
At 31 December 2007, the HSBC Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 1,889,903 2006: 2,266,949 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of options.
Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the Bank of Bermuda share plans were as follows: Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2007............................................... 2,322,094 2008 to 2013 US$7.04 18.35 31 December 2006................................................ 2,710,368 2007 to 2013 US$7.04 18.35 31 December 2005................................................ 3,366,455 2006 to 2013 US$7.04 18.35 The maximum obligation at 31 December 2007 to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements, together with Performance Share and Restricted Share awards under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 and The HSBC Share Plan, was 417,044,591 2006: 435,602,017.
The total number of shares at 31 December 2007 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 149,423,898 2006: 133,346,569.
2 Retained earnings include158,706,463 US$2,649 million of own shares held within HSBCs insurance business, retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets.
3 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$57 million taken to Net interest income and US$1,829 million taken to Net trading income.
4 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only.
In HSBCs consolidated accounts the fair value difference of US$8,290 million in respect of HSBC France and US$12,768 million in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation is a merger reserve.
Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138 million has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including US$3,469 million charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc.
The balance of US$1,669 million has been charged against retained earnings.
2 Retained earnings include 148,323,102 US$2,305 million of own shares held within HSBCs insurance business, retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets.
2006 numbers have been restated to conform with the current years presentation.
3 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$479 million taken to Net interest income and US$1,719 million taken to Net trading income.
2 Share premium includes the deduction of US$40 million in respect of issuance costs incurred during the year.
3 Retained earnings include 144,041,122 US$2,579 million of own shares held within HSBCs insurance business, retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets.
2005 numbers have been restated to conform with the current years presentation.
4 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$101 million taken to Net interest income and US$5 million taken to Net trading income.
5 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only.
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of contingent liabilities, commitments and guarantees.
They are mainly credit-related instruments which include both financial and non-financial guarantees and commitments to extend credit.
Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
The amount of the loan commitments shown above reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
Since a significant portion of guarantees and commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not representative of future liquidity requirements.
Guarantees HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third party customers and other entities within the HSBC Group.
These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBCs banking business.
The principal types of guarantees provided, and the maximum potential amount of future payments which HSBC could be required to make at 31 December 2007, were as follows: 445 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 41 and 42 At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006 Guarantees Guarantees by HSBC by HSBC Holdings Holdings Guarantees in in favour of Guarantees in favour of favour of other HSBC in favour of other HSBC third parties Group entities third parties Group entities US$m US$m US$m US$m Guarantee type 1 Financial guarantee contracts...................................... 25,086 38,457 22,746 17,605 Standby letters of credit which are financial 2 guarantee contracts.................................................. 8,357 4,535 3 Other direct credit substitutes...................................... 4,938 5,514 4 Performance bonds...................................................... 12,969 8,070 4 Bid bonds..................................................................... 1,119 592 Standby letters of credit related to particular 4 transactions.............................................................. 8,235 7,301 4 Other transaction-related guarantees........................... 16,940 28,627 Other items.................................................................... 241 25 77,885 38,457 77,410 17,605 1 Financial guarantees are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
The amounts in the above table are nominal principal amounts.
2 Standby letters of credit which are financial guarantee contracts are irrevocable obligations on the part of HSBC to pay third parties when customers fail to make payments when due.
3 Other direct credit substitutes include re-insurance letters of credit and trade-related letters of credit issued without provision for the issuing entity to retain title to the underlying shipment.
4 Performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and other transaction-related guarantees are undertakings by which the obligation on HSBC to make payment depends on the outcome of a future event.
The amounts disclosed in the above table reflect HSBCs maximum exposure under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings.
The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and managed in accordance with HSBCs overall credit risk management policies and procedures.
Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year.
Guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
Commitments At 31 December 2007, HSBC had US$942 million 2006: US$1,259 million of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$194 million 2006: US$289 million of capital commitments authorised but not contracted for.
In addition, the following agreements have been entered into to acquire businesses that are expected to be effected after the date these financial statements are authorised for issue, subject to regulatory approval.
Agreement to acquire Korea Exchange Bank In September 2007, HSBC agreed to acquire 51.02 per cent of the issued share capital of Korea Exchange Bank KEB from LSF-KEB Holdings SCA, a holding company owned by Lone Star Fund IV US LP and Lone Star Fund IV Bermuda LP collectively Lone Star.
The consideration is KRW3,400 billion plus US$2,833 million, amounting in total to the equivalent of approximately US$6,450 million, payable in cash.
Under a shareholders agreement with Lone Star, The Export-Import Bank of Korea KEXIM is entitled to require HSBC to purchase, on substantially the same terms, part or all of its shareholding in KEB KEXIMs entire shareholding represents a further 6.25 per cent of the issued share capital of KEB.
The acquisition is subject to a number of conditions including the receipt of applicable governmental and regulatory approvals, particularly in South Korea from the Financial Supervisory Commission and the Fair Trade Commission.
The acquisition agreement is conditional on completion taking place on or before 30 April 2008.
Following completion, KEB will be accounted for as a subsidiary in HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
446 Acquisition of The Chinese Bank Co. Ltd.
In December 2007, HSBC was named the successful bidder in a government auction to acquire the business of The Chinese Bank Co. Ltd.
The Chinese Bank in Taiwan.
The agreement relating to this acquisition will result in HSBC assuming The Chinese Banks assets, liabilities and operations with a payment by the Taiwan Governments Central Deposit Insurance Corporation to deliver an agreed net asset position.
In addition, HSBC will provide certain additional capital of between US$300 million to US$400 million to ensure that its enlarged operations maintain appropriate financial ratios.
The transaction is subject to obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.
Associates HSBCs share of associates contingent liabilities amounted to US$18,437 million at 31 December 2007 2006: US$13,824 million.
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
42 Lease commitments Finance lease commitments HSBC leases land and buildings including branches and equipment from third parties under finance lease arrangements to support its operations.
Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2007, HSBC was obligated under a number of non-cancellable operating leases for properties, plant and equipment on which the future minimum lease payments extend over a number of years.
2007 2006 Land and Land and buildings Equipment buildings Equipment US$m US$m US$m US$m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: no later than one year........................................... 788 11 789 10 later than one year and no later than five years... 2,010 14 2,290 21 later than five years.............................................. 1,736 1,198 4,534 25 4,277 31 In 2007, US$849 million 2006: US$781 million: 2005: US$704 million was charged to General and administrative expenses in respect of lease and sublease agreements, of which US$838 million 2006: US$762 million: 2005: US$683 million related to minimum lease payments, US$8 million 2006: US$19 million: 2005: US$21 million to contingent rents, and US$3 million 2006: nil: 2005: nil to sublease payments.
The contingent rent represents escalation payments made to landlords for operating, tax and other escalation expenses.
Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets such as aircraft, property and general plant and machinery.
At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for 447 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 42, 43 and 44 further terms.
Lessees may participate in any sales proceeds achieved.
Lease rentals arising during the lease terms will either be fixed in quantum or be varied to reflect changes in, for example, tax or interest rates.
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
2007 2006 Total future Unearned Total future Unearned minimum finance Present minimum interest Present payments income value payments income value US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Lease receivables: no later than one year...... 2,958 528 2,430 2,305 460 1,845 later than one year and no later than five years.... 8,741 1,500 7,241 7,207 1,400 5,807 later than five years......... 9,194 2,789 6,405 9,206 2,944 6,262 20,893 4,817 16,076 18,718 4,804 13,914 At 31 December 2007, unguaranteed residual values of US$224 million 2006: US$212 million had been accrued, and the accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable amounted to US$23 million 2006: US$28 million.
During the year, a total of US$44 million 2006: US$59 million was received as contingent rents and recognised in the income statement.
Operating lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of different assets to third parties under operating lease arrangements, including transport assets such as rolling stock, property and general plant and machinery.
2007 2006 Land and Land and buildings Equipment buildings Equipment US$m US$m US$m US$m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: no later than one year........................................... 50 838 47 808 later than one year and no later than five years... 14 1,363 17 1,561 later than five years.............................................. 10 400 12 573 74 2,601 76 2,942 43 Litigation HSBC is party to legal actions in a number of jurisdictions including the UK, Hong Kong and the US, arising out of its normal business operations.
HSBC considers that none of the actions is material, and none is expected to result in a significant adverse effect on the financial position of HSBC, either individually or in the aggregate.
Management believes that adequate provisions have been made in respect of such litigation.
HSBC has not disclosed any contingent liability associated with these legal actions because it is not practicable to do so, except as set out below.
On 27 July 2007, the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT issued High Court legal proceedings against a number of UK financial institutions, including HSBC Bank plc, to determine the legal status and enforceability of certain of the charges applied to their personal customers in relation to unauthorised overdrafts the charges.
Certain preliminary issues in these proceedings were heard in a trial in the Commercial Division of the High Court on 17 January 2008.
This trial concluded on 8 February 2008 and judgment, on the preliminary issues tested, is awaited.
The proceedings remain at a very early stage and may, if appeals on the preliminary issues or, subsequently, on substantive issues are pursued, take a number of years to conclude.
A wide range of outcomes is possible, depending, initially, upon whether the Court finds that some, all, or none of the charges should be tested for fairness and or tested as common law penalties and, if it does find that some or all of the charges should be so tested, upon the Courts subsequent assessment of each charge across the period under review.
Since July 2001, there have been a variety of charges applied by HSBC Bank plc across different charging periods under the then current contractual arrangements.
HSBC Bank plc considers the charges to be and to have been valid and enforceable, and intends strongly to defend its position.
448 If, contrary to HSBC Bank plcs current assessment, the Court should ultimately after appeals reach a decision adverse to HSBC Bank plc that results in liability for it, a large number of different outcomes is possible, each of which would have a different financial impact.
Based on the facts currently available to it, and a number of assumptions, HSBC Bank plc estimates that the financial impact could be approximately US$600 million.
To make an estimate of the potential financial impact at this stage with any precision is extremely difficult, owing to among other things the complexity of the issues, the number of permutations of possible outcomes, and the early stage of the proceedings.
In addition, the assumptions made by HSBC Bank plc may prove to be incorrect.
44 Related party transactions The Groups related parties include associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for the benefit of HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Transactions with Directors and other Key Management Personnel Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the members of the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings and Group Managing Directors.
Further information on related party transactions, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, is shown below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year.
449 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 44 2007 2006 Highest Highest amounts amounts Balance at outstanding Balance at outstanding 31 December during year 31 December during year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Key Management Personnel Loans............................................................................. 384,083 842,537 423,594 582,606 Credit cards................................................................... 323 1,077 976 1,637 Guarantees.................................................................... 27,821 31,094 21,774 24,952 Key Management Personnel of HSBC Holdings for the purposes of IAS 24 comprise all of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, Group Managing Directors, and close members of their families and companies they control, jointly control, or significantly influence, or for which significant voting power is held.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those Rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Shareholdings and options of Directors and other Key Management Personnel At 31 December 2007 2006 000s 000s Number of options over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares made under employee share plans held by Directors and other Key Management Personnel............................................................ 36 4,563 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially by Directors and other Key Management Personnel......................................................................... 12,358 20,904 Number of HSBC Holdings preference shares held beneficially and non-beneficially by Directors and other Key Management Personnel......................................................................... 8 8 12,402 25,475 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 21.
450 The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties.
Pension funds At 31 December 2007, US$4.1 billion 2006: US$15.1 billion of HSBC pension fund assets were under management by HSBC companies.
Fees of US$42 million 2006: US$49 million were earned by HSBC companies for these management services.
HSBCs pension funds had placed deposits of US$506 million 2006: US$348 million with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted to US$40 million 2006: US$15 million.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties.
HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities.
At 31 December 2007, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$21.2 billion 2006: US$14.5 billion, the swaps had a positive fair value of US$248 million 2006: negative fair value of US$273 million to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$759 million 2006: US$265 million to the scheme in respect of these swaps.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
In order to satisfy diversification requirements, the Trustee has requested special collateral provisions for the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme.
The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC.
Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that the Trustee is highly confident would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc.
With the exception of the special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third party counterparties.
HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefits Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2007, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.7 billion 2006: US$1.2 billion, and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$63 million to the scheme 2006: US$14 million.
HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 24.
2 On 1 January 2007, HSBC Holdings adopted IFRIC 11.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
451 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 45 and 46 Shareholder information The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and are on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties, with the exception of US$654 million 2006: US$640 million in respect of loans from HSBC subsidiaries to HSBC Holdings made at an agreed zero per cent interest rate.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf.
Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 8 to the accounts.
45 Events after the balance sheet date On 29 February 2008, HSBC France, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, received a firm cash offer from Banque Fdrale des Banques Populaires of 2.1 billion US$3.1 billion for its seven French regional banking subsidiaries.
On the basis of this offer, HSBC France has entered into exclusive discussions with Banque Fdrale des Banques Populaires.
HSBC France will now commence consultations with representatives of the relevant employee representative bodies before making any final decision.
Any transaction will be subject to regulatory approvals in France.
At 31 December 2007, the aggregate total assets attributable to the seven French regional banking subsidiaries were 8.4 billion US$12.3 billion, and they generated net profits after tax of 100 million US$137 million for the year ended 31 December 2007.
A fourth interim dividend for 2007 of US$0.39 per ordinary share US$4,628 million 2006: US$0.36 per ordinary share, US$4,171 million was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2007.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2008 and authorised for issue.
46 UK and Hong Kong accounting requirements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
There would be no significant differences had they been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
