HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information Enforceability of judgements Exchange controls Dividends Page courts against them or HSBC Holdings based on Information about the enforceability of civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the 453 judgements made in the US.......................
There is doubt as to whether English courts Exchange controls and other limitations would enforce: 453 affecting equity security holders................ certain civil liabilities under US securities laws Fourth interim dividend for 2007.................. 453 in original actions: or Interim dividends for 2008............................ 454 judgements of US courts based upon these civil Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC liability provisions.
The enforceability of any Interim results............................................... 456 judgement in the UK will depend on the particular Annual General Meeting............................... 456 facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time.
Shareholder enquiries and communications.. 457 Investor relations........................................... 458 Exchange controls and other Where more information about HSBC is limitations affecting equity security available..................................................... 458 holders Taxation of shares and dividends.................. 458 History and development of HSBC............... 461 There are currently no UK laws, decrees or Organisational structure................................ 463 regulations which would prevent the import or export of capital or remittance of distributable profits Information about the enforceability by way of dividends and other payments to holders of judgements made in the US of HSBC Holdings equity securities who are not residents of the UK.
There are also no restrictions HSBC Holdings is a public limited company under the laws of the UK or the terms of the incorporated in England and Wales.
Most of HSBC Memorandum and Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings Directors and executive officers live Holdings concerning the right of non-resident or outside the US.
As a result, it may not be possible to foreign owners to hold HSBC Holdings equity serve process on such persons or HSBC Holdings in securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
the US or to enforce judgements obtained in US Fourth interim dividend for 2007 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2007 of US$0.39 per ordinary share.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 3 April 2008.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2008 will be US$0.18 per ordinary share.
The proposed timetables for the dividends in respect of 2008 are: Interim dividends for 2008 First Second Third Fourth Announcement.......................................................... 6 May 2008 4 August 2008 3 November 2008 2 March 2009 ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York................... 21 May 2008 20 August 2008 19 November 2008 18 March 2009 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda..................................... 21 May 2008 20 August 2008 19 November 2008 18 March 2009 Record date and closure of Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register of shareholders for one day....... 23 May 2008 22 August 2008 21 November 2008 20 March 2009 Shares quoted ex-dividend in Paris.......................... 26 May 2008 25 August 2008 24 November 2008 23 March 2009 Payment date............................................................. 9 July 2008 8 October 2008 14 January 2009 6 May 2009 Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since it became the HSBC Group holding company by a scheme of arrangement in 1991.
The dividend will be paid on 7 May 2008.
2 The above dividends declared are accounted for as disclosed in Note 12 on the Financial Statements.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
Nature of trading market HSBC Holdings ordinary shares are listed or admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange HKSE, Euronext Paris, the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
HSBC Holdings maintains its principal share register in England and overseas branch share registers in Hong Kong and Bermuda collectively, the share register.
As at 31 December 2007, there were a total of 210,931 holders of record of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2007, a total of 13,145,585 of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were registered in the HSBC Holdings share register in the name of 12,018 holders of record with addresses in the US.
These shares represented 0.1111 per cent of the total HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue.
454 As at 31 December 2007, there were 10,490 holders of record of ADSs holding approximately 123 million ADSs, representing approximately 614 million HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
10,284 of these holders had addresses in the US, holding approximately 122.7 million ADSs, representing 613.6 million HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2007, approximately 5.2 per cent of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were represented by ADSs held by holders of record with addresses in the US.
The following table shows, for the years, calendar quarters and months indicated, the highest and lowest prices for the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and ADSs.
These are based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange, HKSE, Euronext Paris, NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
Past share price performance should not be regarded as a guide to future performance.
2 HSBC shares were not listed on the Bermuda Stock Exchange prior to 18 February 2004.
Interim results The interim results for the six months to 30 June 2008 will be announced on 4 August 2008.
Annual General Meeting The 2008 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on 30 May 2008 at 11 am.
2 A Vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For and Against the resolution.
456 Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to your shareholding, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars: Principal Register Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Corporate Shareholder Services PO Box 1064, The Pavilions Services Limited The Bank of Bermuda Limited Bridgwater Road Hopewell Centre 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 3FA Rooms 1806-1807 Hamilton HM 11 th UK 18 Floor Bermuda 183 Queens Road East Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0137 Hong Kong Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email: web.
hk Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Investor Services P. O.
Box 11258 Church Street Station New York, NY 10286-1258 USA Telephone US : 1 888 269 2377 Telephone International : 001 201 680 6825 Email: shareowners@bankofny.
com Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings it is important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains as it was so the registered shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration thereof must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters that are directed to us in error.
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2007 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East and For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: Africa: Group Communications Group Public Affairs Internal Communications HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC-North America 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited 26525 N. Riverwoods Boulevard London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central Mettawa UK Hong Kong Illinois 60045 USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive a notification of its availability on HSBCs website.
To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy, or would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
457 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Investor relations Where information is available Taxation of shares and dividends Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2007 is available upon request after 3 April 2008 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited th Hopewell Centre, Rooms 1806-07, 18 Floor 183 Queens Road East Hong Kong Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 1064, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 3FA UK Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Senior Manager Investor Relations Investor Relations Officer Senior Manager External Relations HSBC Holdings plc HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square 26525 N. Riverwoods Boulevard Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ Mettawa, Illinois 60045 1 Queens Road Central UK USA Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 8041 1 224 544 4400 852 2822 4929 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7991 4663 1 224 552 4400 852 2845 0113 E-mail: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk Where more information about including HSBC Holdings.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information HSBC Holdings HSBC is available files at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, This Annual Report and Accounts 2007, and other Inc. 20 Broad Street, New York, NY 10005. information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs website: www.
Taxation of shares and dividends US Investors may read and copy the reports, Taxation UK residents statements or information that HSBC Holdings files The following is a summary, under current law, of with the Securities and Exchange Commission at its the principal UK tax considerations that are likely public reference room in Washington, DC, which is to be material to the ownership and disposition of located at 100 F Street, Room 1580, Washington, DC shares.
The summary does not purport to be a 20549.
These documents will also be available at the comprehensive description of all the tax Commissions regional offices located at the considerations that may be relevant to a holder of Woolworth Building, 233 Broadway, New York, NY shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally 10279 and at Citicorp Center, 500 West Madison with shareholders who are resident in the UK for Street, Suite 1400, Chicago, IL 60661.
Investors UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold should call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for the shares as investments and who are the beneficial further information on the operation of the public owners of the shares, and does not address the tax reference rooms.
Investors can request copies of treatment of certain classes of holders such as these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective by writing to the Commission at 100 F Street, Mail purchasers should consult their own advisers Stop 5100, Washington, DC 50549.
The Commission regarding the tax consequences of an investment maintains an internet site www.
gov at which in shares in light of their particular circumstances, investors may view reports, proxy and information including the effect of any national, state or local statements, and other information regarding issuers laws.
that file electronically with the Commission, 458 Taxation of dividends For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
However, dividends are paid with adjustments apply where an individual shareholder an associated tax credit which is available for set-off has chosen to receive shares instead of cash by certain shareholders against any liability they dividends, subject to scrip issues made since 6 April may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the 1998 being treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent of capital gain arising on a disposal may also be the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. adjusted to take account of indexation allowance one-ninth of the cash dividend.
and, in the case of individuals, taper relief.
Except For individual shareholders who are resident in for gains made by a company chargeable to UK the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK corporation tax, any such indexation allowance is income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income calculated up to 5 April 1998 only.
tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from Changes to capital gains tax have been HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are announced that will apply to disposals of shares with liable to UK income tax at the higher rate on UK effect from 6 April 2008.
The proposals are expected dividend income currently 32.5 per cent are taxed to be confirmed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax in his budget due on 12 March 2008.
The tax credit is available for set-off against include: the higher rate liability, leaving net higher rate tax to pay equal to 25 per cent of the cash dividend.
Shares will no longer be treated as separate Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled holdings but pooled, the consequence of which to any tax credit repayment.
is the tax basis of disposals will be calculated on the average cost of the shares held: Although non-UK resident shareholders are generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax Indexation allowance is withdrawn: credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some Taper Relief is withdrawn: such shareholders may be so entitled under the provisions of a double taxation agreement between A single tax rate of 18 per cent will apply to all their country of residence and the UK.
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to repayable.
Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the Inheritance tax 2006 fourth interim dividend and the first, second Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose and third interim dividends for 2007 was set out in domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 3 April, of the United States-United Kingdom Double 30 May, 29 August and 5 December 2007.
In each Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes case, the difference between the cash dividend the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any did not equal or exceed 15 per cent of the market US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been value and accordingly, the price of HSBC Holdings paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK tax individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares purposes for the dividends was the cash dividend or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or foregone.
ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in Taxation of capital gains the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is part The computation of the capital gains tax liability of the business property of a UK permanent arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to a shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be UK fixed base of an individual used for the complex, partly depending on whether, for example, performance of independent personal services.
In the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and a credit against US Federal tax liability for the Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance companies.
tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax.
459 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends History and development eligible US holders are no longer entitled to claim a Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends.
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of Holders and prospective purchasers should transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty consult their own advisers regarding the tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally light of their particular circumstances, including the payable by the transferee.
effect of any national, state or local laws.
An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest In general, the beneficial owner of a share or therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp ADS will be entitled to benefits under the Treaty duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the and, therefore, will be an eligible US holder if it is consideration.
However, provided an instrument of i an individual resident of the US, a US corporation transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the meeting ownership criteria specified in the Treaty or agreement and duly stamped before the date on other entity meeting criteria specified in the Treaty: which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, and ii not also resident in the UK for UK tax under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and purposes.
Special rules, including a limitation of Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp benefits provision, may apply.
The Treaty benefits duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be discussed below generally are not available to US cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally holders that hold shares or ADSs in connection with payable by the transferee.
the conduct of a business through a permanent Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the establishment, or the performance of personal UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to services through a fixed base, in the UK.
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax is Taxation of dividends calculated and payment made automatically.
An eligible US holder must include cash dividends Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer the date that such holder or the ADS depositary into CREST is itself for consideration.
receives them, translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange Taxation US residents rate in effect on the date of receipt.
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than 61 The following is a summary, under current law, of days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign the principal UK tax and US federal income tax corporation being considered a qualified foreign considerations that are likely to be material to the corporation which includes not being classified for ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign holder that is a resident of the US for the purposes of investment company, certain dividends qualified the income tax convention between the US and the dividends received by an individual eligible US UK the Treaty, and is fully eligible for benefits holder before 2009 generally will be subject to US under the Treaty an eligible US holder.
The taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per cent.
Based on summary does not purport to be a comprehensive the companys audited financial statements and description of all of the tax considerations that may relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In Holdings believes that it was not treated as a passive particular, the summary deals only with eligible US foreign investment company for US federal income holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, tax purposes with respect to its 2005 or 2006 taxable and does not address the tax treatment of holders that year.
In addition, based on the companys audited are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, taxfinancial statements and current expectations exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in regarding the value and nature of its assets, and the securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or sources and nature of its income, HSBC Holdings ADSs as part of an integrated investment including does not anticipate being classified as a passive a straddle comprised of a share or ADS and one or foreign investment company for its 2007 taxable more other positions, and persons that own, directly year.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or or indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock ADSs generally should be treated as qualified of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, dividends.
treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change.
Under the current income tax treaty between the UK and the US, 460 Taxation of capital gains certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or are not US persons generally are not subject to other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will information reporting or backup withholding tax, but not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of may be required to comply with applicable the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a certification procedures to establish that they are not trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a US persons in order to avoid the application of such branch or agency or permanent establishment and information reporting requirements or backup the shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or withholding tax to payments received within the US acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, or through certain financial intermediaries.
vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains will be included in income History and development of HSBC for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than 1865 The founding member of the HSBC Group, one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking individual holder generally is subject to US tax at a Corporation, is established in both Hong maximum rate of 15 per cent.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 1959 The Mercantile Bank of India Limited and ADSs The British Bank of the Middle East, now HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, are If shares are transferred into a clearance service or purchased.
depository receipt ADR arrangement which will include a transfer of shares to the Depository UK 1965 A 51 per cent interest subsequently increased stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be to 62.14 per cent is acquired in Hang Seng payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is Bank Limited.
Hang Seng Bank is the fourthgenerally payable on the consideration for the largest listed bank in Hong Kong by market transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of capitalisation.
1980 A 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA, Inc, is acquired on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty with the remaining interest acquired in paid in connection with the same transfer.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer 1981 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that Corporation incorporates its then existing the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or Canadian operations.
HSBC Bank Canada written agreement to transfer remain at all times subsequently makes numerous acquisitions, outside the UK, and provided further that any such expanding rapidly to become the largest transfer or written agreement to transfer is not foreign-owned bank in Canada and the executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will seventh-largest overall at 31 December 2007. be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, 1987 A 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UKs On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a principal clearing banks, is purchased.
registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the 1991 HSBC Holdings plc is established as the ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of parent company of the HSBC Group.
transfer will be payable by the registered holder of the ADR cancelled.
1992 HSBC purchases the remaining interest in Midland Bank plc.
US backup withholding tax and information 1993 As a consequence of the Midland acquisition, reporting HSBCs Head Office is transferred from Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the Hong Kong to London in January.
sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, 1997 HSBC assumes selected assets, liabilities and or through certain financial intermediaries to US subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Brasil holders, are subject to information reporting and may S. A. now HSBC Bank Brazil, following the be subject to a US backup withholding tax unless, intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, in general, the US holder complies with certain and in Argentina completes the acquisition of 461 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued History and development Organisational Structure Grupo Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank 2006 HSBC acquires Grupo Banistmo S. A. Argentina S. A. Banistmo, the leading banking group in Central America, through a tender offer to 1999 HSBC acquires Republic New York acquire 99.98 per cent of the outstanding Corporation, subsequently merged with shares of Banistmo.
HSBC USA, Inc. and Safra Republic Holdings S. A.
2007 During the first half of the year, HSBCs three associates in mainland China, Industrial 2000 HSBC completes its acquisition of 99.99 per Bank, Ping An Insurance and Bank of cent of the issued share capital of Crdit Comunications, issue new shares.
HSBC does Commercial fide France S. A. now HSBC not subscribe and, as a result, its interests in France.
the associates equity decrease from 15.98 per 2002 HSBC acquires 99.59 per cent of Grupo cent to 12.78 per cent, from 19.90 per cent to Financiero Bital, S. A. fide C. V. the holding 16.78 per cent and from 19.90 per cent to company of what is now HSBC Mexico.
A gain of US$1.1 billion accrues to HSBC from the 2003 HSBC acquires Household International, Inc. increase in the associates underlying net now HSBC Finance Corporation.
Subsequently, in September and Finance brings to the Group national October, HSBC increases its holding in Bank coverage in the US for consumer lending, of Communications from 18.60 per cent to credit cards and credit insurance through 19.01 per cent for US$308 million.
2007 In September, HSBC agrees to acquire 2003 HSBC acquires Banco Lloyds TSB S. A.
- 51.02 per cent of the issued share capital of Banco Mltiplo in Brazil and the countrys Korea Exchange Bank for US$6.5 billion, leading consumer finance company, Losango payable in cash, subject to a number of Promotora fide Vendas Limitada.
2004 HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merges with HSBC 2007 In December, HSBC is named the successful Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. to form HSBC bidder in a government auction to acquire the Bank USA, N. A. assets, liabilities and operations of Chinese 2004 The acquisition of The Bank of Bermuda Bank Co. Ltd in Taiwan, with a subsidy Limited is completed.
equivalent to US$1.5 billion from Taiwan Governments Central Deposit Insurance 2004 HSBC acquires Marks and Spencer Retail Corporation.
HSBC agrees to provide Financial Services Holdings Limited, which additional capital of between US$300 million trades as Marks and Spencer Money M&S and US$400 million to ensure appropriate Money in the UK.
2004 HSBC acquires 19.9 per cent of Bank of Communications, mainland Chinas fifthlargest bank by total assets, and Hang Seng Bank acquires 15.98 per cent of Industrial Bank.
2005 HSBC increases its holding in Ping An Insurance to 19.9 per cent, having made its initial investment in 2002.
Ping An Insurance is the second-largest life insurer and the thirdlargest property and casualty insurer in mainland China.
2005 HSBC Finance completes the acquisition of Metris Companies Inc. making HSBC the fifth-largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the USA.
