Financial statements ICAP plc 61 Annual Report 2007 Notes to the financial statements 1 Basis of preparation a Basis of preparation Group and Company The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include the fair value of certain financial instruments in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company, ICAP plc.
The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement.
This enables the Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted EPS and is considered to be the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of the income statement.
Items which are of non-recurring nature and material when considering both size and nature, have been disclosed separately to give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These items are shown as exceptional items on the face of the income statement.
The Company has taken advantage of section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own income statement.
Group Intangible assets arising on consolidation represent goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets on business combinations since 1 April 2004.
The amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill is included in the income statement within the column amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation.
b Basis of consolidation Group The Groups consolidated financial statements include the results and net assets of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Group has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The results of companies acquired during the year are included in the Groups results from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of companies disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, exercises joint control over its operating and financial policies.
An interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
Joint ventures are proportionately consolidated, whereby the Groups income statement and balance sheet include the Groups share of the income and assets on a line-by-line basis.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, can exercise significant influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists where the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
Associates are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups income statement includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets and the Groups equity includes its share of their revaluation reserve.
The accounts of certain subsidiaries incorporated outside the UK are drawn up initially to conform with local regulations and adjusted subsequently to comply with IFRS and UK company law.
