Financial statements ICAP plc 62 Annual Report 2007 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Basis of preparation continued c Prior year adjustment As a consequence of a review of its clearing and settlement arrangements, the Group has determined that certain balances resulting from transactions settled through clearing corporations in the US should not be recognised on the balance sheet.
Comparative amounts in the prior year have been restated.
The impact on the consolidated financial statements to 31 March 2006 is a reduction in matched principal trade debtors and matched principal trade creditors of 100,297.0m.
The change has no impact on the income statement, net assets or the cash flow statement of the Group.
d Segmental analysis Primary segment geographic The Group regards its primary reporting segment as geographic as this is substantially the basis on which it manages its operations.
The three geographic business segments are Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
For reporting purposes, Europe includes South Africa and Bahrain.
Secondary segment business Following the acquisition of EBS, the Groups secondary segmentation has been redefined to show voice, electronic and information divisions.
The voice division consists of the previous segments of derivatives and money broking and securities broking and energy broking.
The comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2006 have been restated in accordance with the new segmentation.
The new segments have been adopted as management believes they better reflect the differing margins and risk profiles of the Groups businesses.
The voice division represents trades concluded directly by the Groups staff for interest rates, credit, FX, energy, equities and emerging market products.
The electronic division represents trades concluded via electronic trading platforms and post-trade services.
The information division represents the sale of market data and research services.
e Recent accounting developments As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective.
The Group has chosen not to early adopt these Standards and Interpretations: IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the Related Amendments to IAS1 on Capital Disclosures IFRS8 Operating Segments IFRIC8 Scope of IFRS2 IFRIC9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption of the Standards and Interpretations is still under review.
2 Principal accounting policies Group a Revenue Revenue comprises commission from the Groups agency business, brokerage from matched principal transactions and fees received from the sale of financial information to third parties.
Matched principal business Certain Group companies are involved as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties.
Revenue is generated from the difference between the purchase and sale proceeds and is recognised in full at the time of the simultaneous commitment by the counterparties to sell and purchase the financial instrument.
Agency business The Group acts in a non-advisory capacity to match buyers and sellers of financial instruments and raises invoices monthly for the service provided.
The Group does not act as principal and only receives and transmits orders between counterparties.
Revenue is stated net of rebates and discounts, value added tax and other sales taxes and is recognised in full on the date of the trade.
Amounts receivable at the year end are reported as other trade debtors within trade and other receivables note 18.
Financial statements ICAP plc 63 Annual Report 2007 2 Principal accounting policies continued Information services The Group receives fees from the sale of financial information to third parties.
This is stated net of value added tax and other sales taxes and is recognised in revenue on an accruals basis to match the provision of the service.
Amounts receivable at the year end are reported as other trade debtors within trade and other receivables note 18. b Government grants Revenue grants received are credited to the income statement on an accruals basis over the period the related expenditure is charged.
c Intangible assets arising on consolidation Intangible assets arising on consolidation include all goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets identified at the time of acquisition of an entity.
Amortisation or impairment of these assets is disclosed on the face of the income statement.
i Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and represents the cost of the acquisition in excess of the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
Fair values are determined based on an assessment of the value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired, including reference to market prices and by discounting expected future cash flows to present value.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves.
The transitional arrangements of IFRS3 Business Combinations allow this goodwill to remain eliminated.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill was capitalised and, until 31 March 2004, was amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over its useful life.
Since transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004 goodwill is no longer amortised, but is subject to an annual impairment review.
For acquisitions on or after 1 April 2004, separately identifiable intangible assets have been recognised where applicable and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic life.
Any residual goodwill is capitalised on the balance sheet and is subject to an annual impairment review.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised in the income statement.
In accordance with the transitional arrangements of IFRS3, goodwill previously recognised under UK GAAP has been included in the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 at net book value as an equivalent to fair value.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is shown within intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is included within their carrying value.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998, which remains eliminated.
ii Separately identifiable intangible assets For acquisitions since 1 April 2004, the Group has applied the provisions of IFRS3 Business Combinations and has separately identified intangible assets where appropriate.
These generally include customer contracts and customer relationships.
Intangible assets acquired by the Group are initially stated at fair value and subsequently adjusted for amortisation and any impairment.
Impairment charges are recognised in the income statement.
Amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets is charged to the income statement on an appropriate basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer relationships 210 years Customer contracts Period of contract Other intangible assets Period of contract d Intangible assets arising from development expenditure Development expenditure on software for electronic trading platforms is recognised as an intangible asset in accordance with the provisions of IAS38 Intangible Assets.
Amortisation of these assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic life of the asset of three to five years.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from development expenditure is charged within operating expenses in profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Amortisation is charged against assets from the date at which the asset becomes available for use.
Financial statements ICAP plc 64 Annual Report 2007 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is initially recognised at fair value less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment in its value.
It is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful economic life as follows: Short leasehold property Period of lease Furniture, fixtures and equipment 35 years Motor vehicles 34 years The Group reviews its depreciation rates regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
These rates are determined on consideration of factors such as the expected rate of technological development and anticipated usage levels.
When a leasehold property becomes surplus to the Groups foreseeable business requirements, a provision is made on a discounted basis for the expected future net cost of the property.
f Leased assets Assets financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Lease repayments comprise both a capital element and a finance element.
The capital element of the leasing commitment is shown as an obligation to the lessor in the balance sheet and the finance element is charged to the income statement on a constant periodic rate of change basis.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
g Classification of financial assets Financial assets are classified as available-for-sale, financial assets at fair value through the income statement or loans and receivables on initial recognition.
Available-for-sale: available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the assets are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets such as shares or seats in exchanges and long-term equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as available-for-sale.
Fair value through the income statement: fair value through the income statement investments are initially recognised at fair value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement.
These assets are usually held for short-term gain, or are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
The accounting policy for fair value hedges is included in note 2 j.
Loans and receivables: loans and receivable are non-derivative financial instruments which have a fixed or easily determinable value.
They are recognised at cost, less any provisions for impairment in their value.
These assets are included in trade and other receivables.
h Matched principal business Certain Group companies are involved as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties.
Such trades are complete only when both sides of the transaction are settled and so the Group is exposed to the risk in the event that one side of the transaction remains unsettled.
Substantially all the transactions settle within a short period of time and the settlement risk is considered to be minimal.
All amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched principal business are shown gross as matched principal trade debtors and matched principal trade creditors notes 18 and 19, except where a netting agreement which is legally enforceable at all times exists and the asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
i Matched stock lending business Certain Group companies are involved in collateralised stock lending transactions as an intermediary between counterparties.
Such trades are complete only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction is returned.
The gross amounts of collateral due and receivable are disclosed in the balance sheet as deposits paid for securities borrowed and deposits received for securities loaned notes 18 and 19.
Financial statements ICAP plc 65 Annual Report 2007 2 Principal accounting policies continued j Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses various financial instruments as hedges to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
These can include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency options and cross currency and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value adjusted for transaction costs.
The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by reference to quoted prices in an active market.
Where no such active market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis and the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the derivative depends on whether the instrument has been designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the exposure being hedged.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the terms of the hedge must be clearly documented at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged risk.
Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and if at any point it is concluded that the relationship can no longer be expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge relationship is terminated.
Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which qualify for hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Hedges are either classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Fair value hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
The hedging instrument and hedged item are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet, with changes in fair value being taken through the income statement.
Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity, to the extent that they are determined to be effective.
Any remaining portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On recognition of the hedged asset or liability, any gains or losses that had previously been recognised directly in equity are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Net investment hedges: changes in the value of foreign denominated investments due to currency movements are recognised directly in equity.
The accounting treatment for a net investment hedge is generally consistent with the treatment for a cash flow hedge.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on the ultimate disposal of the foreign denominated investment.
Where financial instrument derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the fair market value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
k Client money The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the FSA.
Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these amounts, they are excluded from the Group balance sheet along with the corresponding liabilities to clients.
The amounts held on behalf of clients at the balance sheet date are included in note 33. l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments, which are subject to insignificant risk of change in fair value and are readily convertible into a known amount of cash.
m Long-term borrowings Long-term borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
At subsequent reporting dates long-term borrowings are held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with changes in value recognised through the income statement.
Transaction costs are recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Financial statements ICAP plc 66 Annual Report 2007 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued n Pension costs The Group mainly operates defined contribution schemes.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
The Group also operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the US that is closed to new entrants.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest arising on the pension scheme liabilities is recognised in the income statement within finance income and finance costs.
The pension scheme deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference between the fair value of the assets of the scheme and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense, net of the deferred tax impact.
The expected return on scheme assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension scheme.
o Employee share-based payments and share ownership trusts The Group awards share options and other share-based payments as part of employee incentive schemes.
The Group has applied IFRS2 Share-based Payment for all such awards granted since 7 November 2002.
The fair value of services acquired is measured by the fair value of the shares or share options awarded at the time of granting and is charged to staff costs over the period the service is received on a straight-line basis.
A reserve of an equivalent amount is held on the balance sheet as part of the retained earnings.
The fair value of share options awarded is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and takes into account various parameters, including the exercise price, current share price, risk free rate of return and the volatility of ICAPs share price.
The expected lives used in the fair value calculations are adjusted for the estimated effect of non-transferability and exercise restrictions.
Investments in own shares held in connection with the Groups employee share schemes are held in trust and are deducted from shareholders equity.
Purchases, sales and transfers of own shares are disclosed as changes in shareholders equity.
p Taxation Tax on the profit for the year comprises both current and deferred tax as well as adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also included within equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for reporting purposes and the amounts charged or credited for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rate of tax expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group where there is both the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group is able to control the timing of dividends from its overseas entities and hence does not expect to remit overseas earnings in the foreseeable future in a way which would result in a tax charge.
As a consequence deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in the future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
No provision is made in respect of any further taxation liability that would arise on the distribution of retained earnings of overseas joint ventures and associates.
q Foreign currencies In individual entities transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of that entity at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are recognised in the income statement, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in value are taken directly to reserves.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Financial statements ICAP plc 67 Annual Report 2007 2 Principal accounting policies continued On consolidation, the results of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate to the rate at the date of transaction.
Assets and liabilities of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are classified within equity and transferred to the Groups retained earnings.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition to IFRS are taken to the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Where applicable the Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising before the date of transition to IFRS as denominated in the presentational currency of the Group.
In the cash flow statement, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rate for the year.
r Accounting estimates and provisions The Group makes various judgements in applying its accounting policies and various assumptions and estimates when determining the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities.
The estimates, assumptions and judgements that have a significant impact on the Groups results and financial position are discussed below: The Group reviews goodwill and intangible assets arising on consolidation at least annually, or more frequently if circumstances suggest that an impairment may have taken place.
The Group tests for impairment by comparing the carrying value of assets with their value in use.
The calculation of the value in use is based on discounted cash flows from financial budgets.
This requires the use of estimates and judgements in determining the budgeted profit after tax, discount rate and growth rates.
The Group provides for impairment of other trade debtors to estimate existing bad debts and amendments to sales invoices.
The provision is estimated based on historic trends.
An increase or decrease in these trends of 1% would not have a material effect on the net assets of the Group.
The Group determines estimated useful economic lives of its intangible assets arising on development expenditure based on projected lifecycles.
Technological advances and other factors could result in these estimates no longer being appropriate.
If actual useful economic lives were to differ from the Companys estimate by 10%, the carrying value of intangible assets would be 0.5m lower or 0.6m higher respectively.
When a leasehold property becomes surplus to the Groups foreseeable business requirements, provision is made on a discounted basis for the expected future net cost of the property.
The Group is subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are certain transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Differences between the final tax outcome of these matters and the amounts initially recorded will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
s Treasury Shares Treasury Shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
Company In addition to the above accounting policies, the following relate specifically to the Company.
Investment in subsidiaries An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Company has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The Company recognises investments in subsidiaries initially at fair value and subsequent changes in value as a result of impairment are recognised in the income statement.
