IG Group Holdings plc 51 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Basis of consolidation 1.
Authorisation of financial statements The Group financial statements consolidate the financial and statement of compliance with IFRS statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as listed in The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the note 15.
Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 May 2007 were authorised for issue by the board of the Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, directors on 23 July 2007 and the balance sheet signed on the being the date on which the Group obtains control, and boards behalf by TA Howkins and S Clutton.
IG Group Holdings continue to be consolidated until the date that such control plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit on the London Stock Exchange.
from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible The Group and Company financial statements have been potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The financial statements of the subsidiaries used in the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU as preparation of the consolidated financial statements are they apply to the financial statements of the Group and of prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company the Company for the year ended 31 May 2007 and applied in and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All interaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The company balances and transactions, including unrealised principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the profits arising from them, are eliminated.
Company are set out in note 2.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 2.
Accounting policies of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair Basis of preparation values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as The accounting policies which follow have been applied in goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on 2007. acquisition is credited to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
Certain proportion of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities comparative figures have been restated, where indicated, to and contingent liabilities recognised.
Losses applicable to the conform to the current years presentation.
minority in a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the minority interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and The Group has elected to present statements of changes in any further losses applicable to the minority, are allocated shareholders equity as primary statements for the year ended against the majority interest except to the extent that the 31 May 2007 whereas the statement of recognised income and minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an expense was presented in the prior year.
additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the The preparation of financial statements requires management majority interests until the minoritys share of losses previously to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and the year.
The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is could differ from those estimates.
presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
This is the first year in which the Company has prepared its separate financial statements under IFRS and the comparatives The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting year are included in the consolidated income statement from Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRS.
The reconciliations the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP financial disposal, as appropriate.
statements are summarised in note 31.
IG Group Holdings plc 52 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Leasehold improvements over the lease term 2.
Accounting policies continued of up to 15 years Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial Office equipment, fixtures and fittings over 5 years statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies Computer and other equipment over 2, 3 or 5 years used into line with those used by other members of the Group.
Motor vehicles over 4 years All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes Foreign currencies in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be The functional currency of each company in the Group is that recoverable, and are written down immediately to their of by the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 15. recoverable amount.
The Groups most significant functional currency is Sterling.
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
The date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset is determined currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying exchange prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary amount of the asset and is included in the income statement in assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated the period of derecognition.
in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses Goodwill arising on translation are taken to the income statement, Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the except when hedge accounting is applied and for exchange cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Externally purchased These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net goodwill is recognised at the fair value of the consideration investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to cash generating units for purposes of impairment testing.
Cash On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of overseas operations are translated into Sterling at exchange assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified Business combinations on or after 1 June 2004 are accounted as equity and taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method.
Any excess of translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign goodwill and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair entity and translated at the closing rate.
value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, Property, plant and equipment a gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 May 2004 is recorded accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any of operating as intended.
accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual value may be impaired.
value and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual values are based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Depreciation is charged on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives as follows: IG Group Holdings plc 53 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Report and Financial Statements 2007 indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Accounting policies continued the carrying value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment annually before being brought into use.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, Impairment of assets usually at business segment level or statutory company level as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the At least annually, or when annual impairment testing is cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including required, the directors review the carrying amounts of the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income Groups tangible and intangible assets to determine whether statement.
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cashamount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the generating unit is taken into account when determining the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash Intangible assets generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
In assessing value in use, the estimated Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are future cash flows are discounted to their present values carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part using a pre-tax discount rate.
This rate reflects current market of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if assessments of the time value of money as well as the risks the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Expenditure have not been adjusted.
on internally developed intangible assets, excluding If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less development costs, is taken to the income statement in the than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an intangible asset only after all the following recognised as an expense immediately.
criteria are met: An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether the projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can there is any indication that previously recognised impairment be demonstrated: losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such the availability of adequate technical and financial resources indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A and an intention to complete the project have been previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if confirmed: and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss the correlation between development costs and future was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the revenue has been established.
asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have Following initial recognition, the historical cost model is been determined, had no impairment loss been recognised applied, with intangible assets being carried at cost less for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment is recognised as income immediately, although impairment losses.
losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives, as follows: Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated Client lists over the expected trading life of impairment losses.
up to 5 years Development costs over 3 years Operating leases Software and licences over the contract term of up to Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor 5 years retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Lease payments under an operating lease are The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the lease impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances term unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the users benefit.
IG Group Holdings plc 54 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 2.
Accounting policies continued flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor Financial instruments transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the The Group determines the classification of its financial extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee categories outlined below and re-evaluates this designation over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the at each financial year end.
When financial instruments are original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being amount of consideration that the Group could be required to the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and repay.
financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an through profit or loss existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in this existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange category and relate to trade receivables and trade payables as or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original shown in the balance sheet.
Financial instruments are classified liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the as held for trading if they are expected to settle in the short difference in the respective carrying amounts together with term.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in order any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
to hedge exposures resulting from derivatives with clients, which are also classified as held for trading unless they are Trade receivables and trade payables designated as hedging instruments.
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from to clients All financial instruments at fair value through the profit and and brokers are netted against other assets and liabilities with loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or the same counterparty where a legally enforceable netting losses recognised in the income statement.
agreement is in place and where it is anticipated that assets Determination of fair value and liabilities will be netted on settlement.
Bets and other derivative financial instruments are stated at fair Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties value determined by reference to third party market values bid and clients where the combination of cash held on account prices for long positions and offer prices for short positions.
and the valuation of financial derivative open positions result in an amount due to the Group.
A provision for impairment For all other derivative financial instruments where there is no is established where there is objective evidence of nonunderlying active market, the fair value is determined using an collectability.
Reference is made to an aged profile of debt and appropriate valuation technique as determined by the Group the provision is subject to management review.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities clients where the combination of cash held on account and the A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
amount payable by the Group.
Financial assets Prepayments and other receivables A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial cash flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a have not been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and and losses are recognised in income when the receivables are rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has process.
A provision for impairment is established where there transferred control of the asset.
is objective evidence of non-collectability.
IG Group Holdings plc 55 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Report and Financial Statements 2007 2.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Cash and cash equivalents differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may associates, except where the Group is able to control the be accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise shortreversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
three months from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each of the consolidated cash flow statement, net cash and cash balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an with the client money rules of the Financial Services Authority undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply FSA and other regulatory bodies.
This money is included when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based within cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet and the on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the corresponding liability to clients is included in trade and other balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the payables.
The return received on managing client balances is income statement, except when it relates to items credited or included within finance revenue.
charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Other payables Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate value and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the rate method if the time value of money is significant.
Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Loan notes Loan notes are initially recognised at fair value of the Classification of shares as debt or equity consideration received and are subsequently measured at When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the balance sheet: measured initially at fair value net of transaction Taxation costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently on conversion or redemption.
The corresponding dividends payable and movements in deferred tax.
relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the income statement.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the the income statement because it excludes items of income or proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it are classified according to the substance of the contractual further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
An equity instrument is any Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts Deferred tax is generally accounted for on all temporary Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of differences between the carrying amount of assets and employee share schemes are classified as a deduction from liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Consideration basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or that it is probable that taxable profits will be available, against loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, which deductible temporary differences may be utilised.
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
IG Group Holdings plc 56 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Share-based payments 2.
Accounting policies continued The Company operates two employee share plans: a Share Revenue recognition Incentive Plan SIP and Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs both of which are equity settled.
The cost of these awards Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic is measured at fair value based on the market price of the benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group Companys shares at the date of the grant and are recognised and the revenue can be reliably measured.
as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis Rendering of services includes gains and losses on the running over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of of betting markets and trading in financial markets, net of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Open positions are carried at fair At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are expense is calculated representing the extent to which the recognised in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on vesting period has expired and managements best estimate positions that have closed.
of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions Finance revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to determining the number of equity instruments that will the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense applicable.
The effective interest rate is the rate which exactly since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life income statement as part of administrative expenses, with a of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders The Company also operates a Shadow SIP scheme for overseas right to receive the payment is established.
staff, which is cash settled.
The fair value of these awards is measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option Cost of sales pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions of Cost of sales represents duties and levies charged on betting the award.
A liability is recognised over the expected vesting revenues.
Betting duties are charged at a fixed rate on period and until the liability is settled it is re-measured at each aggregate net client losses.
reporting date with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Operating profit Change in accounting policy Operating profit is the results of the principal activities of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and The Group adopted IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease Transactions during the year although compliance was not rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, required until the year ended 31 May 2008.
IFRIC 11 relates to profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other the Company granting its own equity shares to the employees administrative expenses.
The early adoption had no effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The effect of the early Finance costs adoption of IFRIC 11 on the Company financial statements is The interest cost recognised in the income statement is explained in note 31. accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount charged at the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected cash flows to the carrying amount of the liability.
Issue costs are included in the determination of the effective interest rates.
Retirement benefit costs The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
Contributions are charged to the income statement as and when they become payable according to the rules of the schemes.
