IG Group Holdings plc 69 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Report and Financial Statements 2007 16.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to two cash generating units CGU, which are also reportable segments, as follows: Group 2007 2006 000 000 Financial 100,968 100,968 Sport 5,250 5,250 106,218 106,218 Goodwill arising on the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc on 5 September 2003 has been allocated according to the profitability of the segments at that date.
Goodwill arising since that date has been allocated to the financial segment as it related to the purchase of financial subsidiaries.
For the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill the carrying amount of each CGU including goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount of each CGU and any deficits are provided.
The carrying amount of a CGU includes only those assets that can be attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis in accordance with the segmental disclosure in note 4.
The estimated recoverable amount of each CGU was based on value in use calculated using the present value of projected 5 year future cash flows.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for both business segments is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period Discount rate Client recruitment rates Average revenue per client Projected future cash flows for each CGU, measured over a five year period, were based on Board approved two year budgets, reflecting past experience as well as future expected trends, and a subsequent growth rate of 5% which is below the average long term growth rates of the Financial and Sport businesses being 35% and 12% respectively.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.2%, derived from the groups weighted average cost of capital.
Client recruitment rates and average revenue per client were based upon actual amounts measured in prior periods which were projected forward in accordance with expected trends.
The directors have performed sensitivity analysis around the cash flow assumptions and have concluded that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of either CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
On the basis of the results of the above analysis there was no impairment of goodwill during the year.
In the previous year, the directors took the view that market capitalisation of the IG Group as a whole was a proxy for the aggregate fair value of the CGUs.
A range of fair values for each business segment was determined by apportioning market capitalisation to each business segment, taking into account a number of factors including the relative profitability of each segment, segment growth rates and comparisons with other businesses.
The range of fair values for each of the segments was then compared to the carrying amount, including goodwill.
On the basis of the results of this testing, there was no impairment of goodwill during the previous year.
