IG Group Holdings plc 51 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2007 Basis of consolidation 1.
Authorisation of financial statements The Group financial statements consolidate the financial and statement of compliance with IFRS statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as listed in The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the note 15.
Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 May 2007 were authorised for issue by the board of the Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, directors on 23 July 2007 and the balance sheet signed on the being the date on which the Group obtains control, and boards behalf by TA Howkins and S Clutton.
IG Group Holdings continue to be consolidated until the date that such control plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit on the London Stock Exchange.
from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible The Group and Company financial statements have been potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The financial statements of the subsidiaries used in the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU as preparation of the consolidated financial statements are they apply to the financial statements of the Group and of prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company the Company for the year ended 31 May 2007 and applied in and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All interaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The company balances and transactions, including unrealised principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the profits arising from them, are eliminated.
Company are set out in note 2.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 2.
Accounting policies of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair Basis of preparation values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as The accounting policies which follow have been applied in goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on 2007. acquisition is credited to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
Certain proportion of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities comparative figures have been restated, where indicated, to and contingent liabilities recognised.
Losses applicable to the conform to the current years presentation.
minority in a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the minority interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and The Group has elected to present statements of changes in any further losses applicable to the minority, are allocated shareholders equity as primary statements for the year ended against the majority interest except to the extent that the 31 May 2007 whereas the statement of recognised income and minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an expense was presented in the prior year.
additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the The preparation of financial statements requires management majority interests until the minoritys share of losses previously to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and the year.
The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is could differ from those estimates.
presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
This is the first year in which the Company has prepared its separate financial statements under IFRS and the comparatives The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting year are included in the consolidated income statement from Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRS.
The reconciliations the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP financial disposal, as appropriate.
statements are summarised in note 31.
