British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 86 parent Company Financial statements independent Auditors report to the Members of British Energy group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion British Energy group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with international which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes.
standards on Auditing uK and ireland issued by the these parent company financial statements have been Auditing practices Board.
An audit includes examination, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and We have also audited the information in the remuneration disclosures in the parent company financial statements Committee report that is described as having been audited.
and the part of the remuneration Committee report to be audited.
it also includes an assessment of the significant We have reported separately on the group financial estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the statements of British Energy group plc for the year preparation of the parent company financial statements, ended 31 March 2007. and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the remuneration Committee report and the parent We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all company financial statements in accordance with applicable the information and explanations which we considered law and united Kingdom Accounting standards united necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Kingdom generally Accepted Accounting practice are set give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
statements and the part of the remuneration Committee report to be audited are free from material misstatement, our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
in statements and the part of the remuneration Committee forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and of the presentation of information in the parent company regulatory requirements and international standards on financial statements and the part of the remuneration Auditing uK and ireland.
this report, including the opinion, Committee report to be audited.
has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Opinion Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving in our opinion: this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the parent company financial statements give a true and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown fair view, in accordance with united Kingdom generally or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Accepted Accounting practice, of the state of the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent the remuneration Committee report to be audited have company financial statements give a true and fair view and been properly prepared in accordance with the whether the parent company financial statements and the Companies Act 1985: and part of the remuneration Committee report to be audited the information given in the Directors report is have been properly prepared in accordance with the consistent with the parent company financial statements.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Chief Executives Business review and the Financial review that is  LLP referred from the review of the Business section of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors report.
Edinburgh in addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company 30 May 2007 has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not notes: received all the information and explanations we require a the maintenance and integrity of the British Energy group plc for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out Directors remuneration and other transactions is not by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, disclosed.
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initally We read other information contained in the Annual report presented on the website.
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited b Legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and parent company financial statements.
the other information dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the remuneration Committee report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Business review, the Financial review, the report on Corporate social responsibility and the report on Corporate governance.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
