British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 94 glossary AGR Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactor EPL the second generation of gas-cooled nuclear reactor built in Eggborough power Limited.
EU ETS Baseload Generation European union Emissions trading scheme.
Mode of operation of a power station at a constant high level of output for a sustained period of time to assist in meeting FGD Flue Gas Desulphurisation minimum national demand.
Equipment fitted to coal-fired power stations to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions.
Bonds Bonds issued by British Energy holdings plc.
GTMA grid trade Master Agreement.
British Energy Direct British Energy Direct Limited.
GW Gigawatt : GWh Gigawatt-hour one gigawatt equals 1,000MW: one gigawatt-hour represents BETTA one hour of electricity consumed at a constant rate of 1gW.
British Electricity transmission and trading Arrangements.
Investment in Plant BNFL investment expenditure on plant projects, major repairs and British nuclear Fuels plc.
strategic spares across the whole group, and incremental costs associated with the performance improvement BNGSL programme including associated staff costs.
British nuclear group sellafield Limited.
ISDA Bruce international swap Dealers Association.
the Bruce A and B nuclear power stations in ontario, Canada.
kW Kilowatt : kWh Kilowatt-hour BSUoS A kilowatt is a unit of power, representing the rate at which Balancing services use of system.
energy is used or produced: one kilowatt-hour is a unit of energy and represents one hour of electricity consumption Contribution Agreement at a constant rate of 1kW.
the agreement dated 14 January 2005 and now between the secretary of state, nLF, British Energy generation Limited, Large Combustion Plant Directive LCPD British Energy group plc and British Energy holdings plc EC Directive applicable to combustion plants exceeding as amended from time to time.
50MW thermal, that takes into account recent advances in combustion and abatement technologies to introduce Decommissioning revised limits for releases of so, nox and dust.
under uK 2 the process whereby a nuclear power station is shut down at implementation of the Directive, operators are permitted to the end of its economic life, eventually dismantled, and the elect either the Emission Limits Value ELV approach or the site made available for other purposes.
national Emissions reduction plan nErp approach.
DUoS Levy Exemption Certificates LECs Distribution use of system.
the climate change levy is a tax on the use of energy in industry, commerce and the public sector.
the purpose of the Emission Limit Values ELV levy is to encourage the efficient use of energy, therefore a Emission limits imposed under the Large Combustion plant range of measures are in place to assist energy users to Directive, requiring operators to maintain emissions within a improve energy efficiency, one of which is the exemption for rate limit at all points in time.
the use of renewable power.
LECs are provided as proof that this exemption is valid.
1 LEC equals 1MWh of Energy Supply Costs renewable energy.
Mainly comprise the costs incurred for the use of the distribution and transmission systems, recovered through revenue, and costs of renewables obligation Certificates roCs.
g L o s s A r y British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 95 glossary LLW, ILW, HLW Low, Intermediate, High Level Waste NLF radioactive waste is classified as low, intermediate or high An independently administered fund into which the group level waste according to its heat generating capacity and makes contributions to cover all qualifying uncontracted radioactivity.
LLW comprises slightly radioactive materials, nuclear liabilities including costs of decommissioning nuclear such as discarded protective clothing and used wrapped power stations and pWr back end fuel costs.
iLW comprises more radioactive materials, including sludges and resins from the cleaning of fuel storage Non Outage Defect Inventory pond water, fuel cladding and other materials arising from the total of outstanding plant defects which are work requests reprocessing of spent fuel, and some radioactive components that have been partially assessed by maintenance, or are still arising from the decommissioning of plant.
hLW comprises awaiting action after screening by the station Work review nuclear waste products separated out from uranium and groups, based on a priority weighting set by the technical plutonium during the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel.
Load Factor Nuclear Installations Inspectorate NII the electricity produced by a power station expressed as A part of the nuclear safety Division Directorate of the health a percentage of the electricity it could have produced if and safety Executive, which administer nuclear site licences.
operating at its reference energy generation over a fixed time period, usually one year.
Outage Planned and Unplanned A period during which a reactor is shut down.
the periodic Lost Time Accident LTA shutdown of a reactor including for maintenance, inspection An incident which causes one or more days off work and testing or, in some cases, for refuelling is known as a consecutive or not after, but not including, the day planned outage.
in the uK, some planned outages are known of an occupational injury or illness.
as statutory outages and are required by the conditions attached to the nuclear site licence needed to operate the Market Price station.
unscheduled shutdown of a reactor for a period is the price for annual forward baseload contracts.
known as an unplanned outage.
Materiel Condition PWR Pressurised Water Reactor A term used by nuclear operators, particularly in the united the most recent type of nuclear reactor to be constructed in states, in relation to nuclear power stations, and used to the uK which uses pressurised water as both the coolant and describe the physical condition of plant and equipment and the moderator.
the condition of operating procedures, engineering drawings, specifications and manuals taking safety, maintenance and Quinquennial Review plant reliability into consideration.
the five-yearly review of the assumptions underlying the groups provision for certain nuclear liabilities.
MW Megawatt : MWh Megawatt-hour one megawatt equals 1,000kW: one megawatt-hour Realised Price represents one hour of electricity consumption at a constant Calculated by dividing revenue from generated electricity by rate of 1MW.
total output for the period.
National Emissions Reduction Plan NERP Renewables Obligation Certificates ROCs Emission limits imposed under the Large Combustion plant Eligible renewable generators receive roCs for each MWh of Directive, requiring operators to maintain emissions within an electricity generated.
these certificates can then be sold to annual bubble limit.
suppliers, in order to fulfil their renewables obligation.
NDA Renewables Obligation Scheme nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
scheme introduced by utilities Act 2000 requiring electricity suppliers to ensure a proportion of sales are derived from renewable sources.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 96 glossary Restructuring TW Terawatt : TWh Terawatt-hour the restructuring of the group completed on one terawatt equals 1,000gW: one terawatt-hour 14 January 2005. represents one hour of electricity consumption at a constant rate of 1tW.
RED the restructuring Effective Date, 14 January 2005.
Unit Capability Factor the percentage of maximum energy generation that a plant Revalorisation is capable of supplying to the electrical grid, limited only by revalorisation arises because nuclear liabilities are stated factors within the control of plant management.
in the balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at 3% per annum from the eventual payment dates.
the Unit Operating Costs revalorisation charge is the adjustment that results from Calculated by dividing the operating costs of generated restating these liabilities to take into account the effect of electricity plus depreciation and software amortisation inflation in the year and to remove the effect of one years by total output for the period.
discount as the eventual dates of payment become one year closer.
revalorisation charges arise in respect of the fixed Unplanned Capability Loss Factor UCLF decommissioning obligation to reflect the unwinding of the unplanned capability loss factor is defined as the ratio of the discount for the period.
A revalorisation credit arises in unplanned energy losses during a given period of time, to respect of movements in the value of nuclear liabilities the reference energy generation, expressed as a percentage.
and the nLF receivable to take account of the underlying movement in nuclear liabilities.
Unplanned Energy Loss in the context of unplanned Capability Loss Factor, unplanned RPI energy loss is energy that was not produced during the retail price index.
period because of unplanned shutdowns, outage extensions, or unplanned load reductions due to causes under plant RPIX management control.
Causes of energy losses are considered retail price index minus mortgage interest payments.
to be unplanned if they are not scheduled at least four weeks in advance.
Shares ordinary shares in British Energy group plc.
UKLA united Kingdom Listing Authority.
Statutory Outage the planned shutdown of nuclear reactors for regulatory Warrants inspection and maintenance.
Warrants entitling the holder to subscribe for shares in British Energy group plc.
TNUoS transmission use of system.
co. uk 9 Hunterston B two advanced gas-cooled reactors environmental: Printed on Mega Matt paper and board.
Mega Matt has a content of 50% totally chlorine free pulp from sustainable forests and 50% recycled fibre.
Vegetable based inks were used throughout.
The printer meets Environment Agency Standards.
All waste and recycling processes are managed by contractors who are ISO 14001 registered.
british energy generation owns and runs our nuclear power stations and 1 supplies businesses with electricity.
9 british energy power and energy trading 2 bepet manages all our energy trading.
our 8 7 3 energy reaches the market via several routes.
british energy direct 4 our client-facing division, responsible for negotiating electricity supply contracts with commercial and industrial customers.
6 5 eggborough power limited operates our coal-fired power station.
our power stations 1 Torness two advanced gas-cooled reactors 2 Hartlepool two advanced gas-cooled reactors 3 Eggborough Four coal-fired units 4 Sizewell B one pressurised water reactor 5 Dungeness B two advanced gas-cooled reactors 6 Hinkley Point B two advanced gas-cooled reactors 7 Heysham 1 two advanced gas-cooled reactors 8 Heysham 2 two advanced gas-cooled reactors 9 Hunterston B two advanced gas-cooled reactors British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 01 our highlights C O N T E N T S Basic earnings per share of 81.5 pence Base dividend of 13.6 pence per ordinary share 02 our Market 03 our strategy We achieved an average realised price of 44.2 MWh 04 investment up 38% from last year 06 people 08 safety 10 Customers our low carbon nuclear electricity avoided emitting 12 Community & Environment 33.7 million tonnes of Co 2 14 our Board 16 Chairmans statement nuclear output for the year was 51.2tWh which is 9.2tWh 18 Chief Executives review lower than last years output 20 Financial review 27 summary remuneration sizewell B achieved its longest ever continuous run of Committee report 32 summary Financial statement 471 days between its refuelling outages 33 independent Auditors statement to the Members of British Energy the Companys investment programme continued with group plc 290m invested in plant during the year 34 summary Consolidated income statement 35 summary Consolidated We are well placed to play a leading role in any plans for Balance sheet new nuclear generation in the uK 35 summary Consolidated statement of Cash Flows 36 glossary Year ended year ended 31 March 31 March IBC shareholder information 2007 2006 revenue m 2,999 2,593 Adjusted EBitDA m 1,221 846 operating profit m 794 635 profit before taxation m 796 599 net profit attributable to shareholders m 465 430 Basic earnings per share pence 81.5 75.9 Adjusted earnings per share pence 48.2 33.3 realised price MWh 44.2 32.0 operating margin MWh 17.1 9.2 output tWh 58.4 68.4 restricted cash and other financial assets and cash and cash equivalents m 1,247 844 net funds m 674 218 Adjusted as described in the Financial review.
Nuclear 5 life-cycle 409 Gas 928 Coal gCO kWh 2 British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 02 our Market the price of energy both financially and environmentally has never been under such close scrutiny.
how can the uK create a secure supply of energy at an acceptable cost?
C O M P A R A T I V E E M I S S I O N S O F C O in financial year 2006 07, the issue Our Role in New Nuclear 2 Based on 2003 of energy was never far from the British Energy is well positioned to play national inventory data headlines.
Volatility in the marketplace a leading role in any new nuclear saw the price of electricity for delivery in development in the uK.
We own sites the period from April 2007 to March that, for many years, have met the specific 2008 fall from around 55 MWh in April criteria that nuclear generation requires, 2006 and to 32 MWh in March 2007. and have a uniquely skilled workforce.
this movement was largely driven by events in the gas and carbon markets.
We have received many expressions of gas prices fell during the year partly due interest from a wide range of potential to the anticipated availability of new gas partners, including industrial energy pipelines and an unusually mild winter.
users, energy companies, other nuclear operators and technology vendors.
We Alongside this, awareness of climate hope to cement one or more change reached new heights.
the stern partnerships in due course.
report on the economics of climate U K E L E C T R I C I T Y P R O D U C T I O N B Y T E C H N O L O G Y change was unequivocal: climate however, we and prospective partners S O U R C E : D U K E S, 2 0 0 5 change demands an urgent global are looking for greater clarity on the Coal 35.5% response, but there is still time to processes to licence and give consent Gas 38.5% Nuclear 21.3% mitigate its worst impacts if we act now.
to new build: on safety regulation: on Renewables 4.8% arrangements for handling longer-term Predominately coal but Nuclear as Part of the Mix liabilities: and on a market framework includes some oil and During the year we responded to that encourages investment in low gas used for start up purposes.
the governments Energy review carbon generation.
consultation, advocating that the uK needs a balanced electricity mix of gas, We are progressing early review work on clean coal, nuclear and renewables to sites and current reactor designs and maintain a secure supply that meets this will continue in parallel with climate change objectives.
A concerted governments strategic siting, effort to conserve energy is also key.
permitting, licencing, waste management and emissions trading Major new investment will also assessments.
be required to offset the growing demand for more energy: the closure of coal-fired power stations: the decommissioning of Magnox nuclear power stations and then the closure in due course of our own stations.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 03 our strategy We intend to develop a position at the heart of the countrys new nuclear generation.
We remain focused on improving the long-term reliability of our power stations.
We aim to: 01 achieve world class nuclear operations We are focused on producing more electricity, more reliably, by channelling our investment and resources into optimising our plant, and achieving outstanding human performance.
02 improve our financial stability By contracting ahead the sale of our electrical output, we achieve greater price certainty, minimising exposure to short-term market prices.
03 pursue life extensions for our stations With safety at the heart of everything we do, we are improving the condition of our stations and, subject to economic and technical evaluation, extending their lives, creating value for our shareholders and sustaining the benefits of low carbon generation.
04 position for new nuclear build We intend to develop a position at the heart of new nuclear generation in the uK.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 05 British Energy is part way through a major programme of investment, and improvements are evident in our key performance indicators.
U N P L A N N E D A U T O M A T I C T R I P S our ability to provide the uK with low Although not evident in this years carbon electricity is directly linked to the output, we are starting to see reliability and efficiency of our power improvement in some key areas.
sizewell B achieved the longest ever continuous run of 471 days operation, After some years of under-investment, with no significant unplanned losses, we significantly increased the level of compared with average losses of our investment in 2005 06 and 0.7tWh in the years 2001 02 to 2006 07. the aim: to continue safe 2005 06. operation, but also to run a fleet of unplanned Automatic trips are a source of stations that generate reliably and Elsewhere, we have seen significant unplanned losses, where a reactor shuts down predictably.
We maintained the improvements in reduced losses from through its inbuilt safety system.
these were reduced to eight in the year compared to 12 in momentum of this investment, bringing boiler feed pumps, condensate systems 2005 06 and 15 in 2004 05. the total invested in the stations in and the fuel route as a result of a these two years to well over 500m.
A Risk-Based Focus For more on our investment strategy, By monitoring closely the condition of please go to: our plant, we aim to pre-empt issues www.
com investment before they cause unreliability.
this means assessing potential operational issues, but also the everyday issues of availablity of consumables and spare parts.
O u r p r O g r e s s m 290 290m invested in plant in 2006 07 improvement in many key operating metrics i n V E s t E D i n p L A n t i n 2 0 0 6 0 7 unplanned automatic trips reduced by 47% in the last two years significant investment projects completed at sizewell reactor pressure vessel head replacement, hartlepool a new simulator and hartlepool and heysham 1 recovery projects O u r p l a n s We expect to invest towards the higher end of the range 250m to 300m in 2007 08 Continuing to focus on identifying, anticipating and mitigating the most likely areas of loss L o w p r e s s u r e r o t o r s Aiming to increase efficiency of management of work, optimising B u t h I g h p r e s s u r e j O B maintenance regimes and continuing to improve human performance sizewell B successfully completed targeting investment to support our strategy of lifetime extensions the stations largest ever outage, including replacing the reactor of our power stations pressure vessel head, upgrading the refuelling machine and installing three new low pressure rotors.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 06 p E o p L E British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 07 human performance is fundamental to quality operations and the way our people approach their work every day.
safety, accountability and ownership are the core values of our employees.
We believe in investing in our people.
them across our locations as part of through focused training and specific business as usual.
targets we can achieve our goals and a more motivated workforce delivering We have revised our senior management higher performance.
structure, appointing three regional Chief nuclear officers Cno with During 2005 06, we launched an responsibility over stations of similar ambitious programme, unique in the technology.
this increases focus on the nuclear industry in Europe: to gain full unique issues related to technology.
independent accreditation of 13 together with the appointment of a technical programmes across Chief technical officer this provides engineering, operations and appropriate support, shared solutions maintenance.
A number of our sites and an aligned focus and strategy.
have since gained interim accreditation, judged in a rigorous assessment by the the Company brings high quality independent training standards and employment with around 6,000 skilled Accreditation Board tsAB.
people up 400 from last year and we are one of the largest employers around Improvement: Business as Usual our sites.
We also welcomed 23 pip the Companys performance graduate trainees and 53 apprentices improvement programme has now during the year.
entered a new phase: Continuous improvement Ci.
Ci is taking the For more on our investment in people, improvement tools and processes please go to: created centrally by pip, and embedding www.
com people O u r p r O g r e s s % 20 4.8m invested in training in 2006 07, up by 20% on 2005 06 A new full-scale training simulator at hartlepool and upgraded skills i n C r E A s E i n t r A i n i n g s p E n D training facilities at each site our human performance initiatives are being benchmarked by our European peers, and the World Association of nuclear operators WAno are sending nuclear operators to learn from them interim tsAB accreditation for a number of our sites gained in a rigorous independent assessment O u r p l a n s increasing training investment to 6m in 2007 08 t r a i n i n g d e s i g n e d Achieving full training accreditation for sizewell B by 2010 across all f O r s u C C e s s technical programmes, and operational programmes for all our Agr nuclear power stations by 2011 Mike Westlake, a third year mechanical engineering apprentice at our hinkley Meeting the performance needs of the business through continual point B power station, won the uK skills refresher training, and systematic Approach to training sAt final for Computer Aided Design and Drawing.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 09 safety is our first and fundamental priority delivered through the professionalism of our people and the robustness of our systems.
L T A s N U C L E A R S T A F F A N D C O N T R A C T O R S our safety record is a fundamental Radiological Safety indicator of performance.
We continue radiation exposure of our workers is to be and will always be our most stringently controlled and monitored, critical judge: we work to standards and the year 2006 07 saw higher levels considerably more stringent than legal than in previous years.
this was mainly and regulatory requirements.
due to the boiler inspection and repair work at hinkley point B and hunterston in safety terms, the year was, again, a B, as well as the replacement of the good one.
there were no events at our reactor pressure vessel head at sizewell sites rated higher than Level 1 in the B.
Even so, the average individual dose in 2006 07 there was a slight increase in Lost time international nuclear Event scale the of 0.197 msv and the highest individual Accidents to 22, up from 19 in 2005 06, but still well lowest indicator, representing operating dose of 11.7 msv were still well within below recent historic performance.
We remain focused on reducing the number of LtAs and reinforcing our anomalies that have no impact on the the statutory limit of 20 msv.
safety culture through regular training and assessment.
safety of the workforce or public.
the number of nuclear reportable Events For more on our safety culture and events which must be reported to our progress, please go to: N U C L E A R R E P O R T A B L E E V E N T S regulator was down by nearly 40%.
com safety was despite a positive reporting culture, which we encourage, generating 16.7% more reports.
O u r p r O g r e s s 6,700 people attended one of 400 nuclear safety Culture Workshops for our employees and contractors nuclear reportable Events are events A focus on contractor safety has led to a 14% reduction in contractor reported to the nuclear installations LtAs across all sites: however, lost time accidents nuclear, including inspectorate in compliance with our nuclear site licences.
these reduced to 22 in 2006 07 our employees and contractors, increased slightly from 19 to 22 from 36 events in 2005 06 a reduction of during the year almost 40%.
the royal society for the prevention of Accidents rospA recognised our safety performance by awarding gold Medals to sizewell B and hinkley point B: presidents Awards to Dungeness B, torness, hartlepool and heysham 1: and an order of Distinction each for 6,700 heysham 2 and hunterston B E M p L o y E E s A n D C o n t r A C t o r s O u r p l a n s A t t E n D E D n u C L E A r s A F E t y C u L t u r E W o r K s h o p s Being proactive and further reducing adverse events Embedding the learning from our nuclear safety and human performance workshops s a f e t y I s k e y implementing the new occupational health safety Assessment the importance of safe working is specification ohsAs 18001 arrangements to improve industrial reinforced by daily safety messages, safety processes and performance specialist training, management support and a positive reporting Drawing on worldwide industry experience to further improve work culture across all our sites.
management processes and equipment reliability British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 10 C u s t o M E r s 44.2 06 07 32.0 05 06 20.4 04 05 16.9 03 04 18.3 02 03 MWh British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 11 our trading capability starts with market-leading client service.
A V E R A G E R E A L I S E D P R I C E British Energy power and Energy trading New Business BEpEt, the trading arm of the Almost half of our output is sold through Company, delivered excellent BE Direct, our direct sales business, performance.
which supplied 1,662 customers across 9,365 sites in great Britain.
We achieved a realised price of 44.2 MWh a rise of 38% over the A record contract was signed during the previous year which contributed to the year with network rail to supply 3.4tWh improvement in financial performance a year until 2014.
Major new contracts for the year.
were also secured with the London realised price is a measure of the price we achieve stock Exchange and Castings plc.
in 2006 07 we achieved an average importantly, we also made excellent realised price of 44.2 MWh an increase of 38% from 2005 06. the substantial year on year increase was progress in extending our fixed price service quality is key, with emphasis on the key factor behind the increase in revenue and the trading book, giving significant price customer relationships, billing accuracy improved financial performance.
certainty for 2007 08 and beyond, and and flexibility, and sharing market reducing the impact on collateral from information to help customers manage market price movements.
trading has their electricity supply requirements.
benefited from a growing culture of professionalism.
During the year, we For more on our trading operation, restructured the sales force into sectorplease go to: specific teams, bringing focused www.
com customers expertise to customers.
1 Excellent progress in building our trading book, giving significant price certainty for 2007 08 F o r C u s t o M E r s A t i s F A C t i o n t o p r A n K i n g s E V E n y E A r s i n A r o W Exposure to price volatility reduced through use of zero and capped collateral trades and extension of the fixed price book An exceptional trading performance with realised price of 44.2 MWh an increase of 12.2 MWh compared to last year no.
1 energy supplier in the Datamonitor Energy Buyer satisfaction survey for the 29th quarter running talk power 2007, with a record attendance from across the industrial and commercial sector O u r p l a n s Building upon the fixed price trading book Minimising nuclear reliability trading risk p o w e r i n g t h e e C O n O m y optimising Eggborough, our coal-fired power station, commercially British Energy Direct supply over and operationally 1,600 industrial and commercial customers, such as network investing in human performance, enhancing processes and renewing rail, helping to keep the British our systems economy moving.
striving for operational excellence British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 12 C o M M u n i t y & E n V i r o n M E n t 18 06 07 22 05 06 04 05 03 04 02 03 No.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 13 We are determined to be good corporate citizens, supporting local communities, minimising our environmental impact and providing low carbon nuclear electricity.
E N V I R O N M E N T A L E V E N T S in a year when the word carbon entered treat seriously events that would not mainstream public consciousness, our appear at all on the Environment nuclear electricity provided the uK with Agencys own incident reporting scale.
During the year there were 18 environmental events on our scale, indeed, you would need to take around against a target of a maximum of 24. half of the uKs cars off the road to All were minor and none caused any save the 33.7 million tonnes of Co we actual environmental harm, using the 2 avoided emitting in 2006 07.
We have elevated minor environmental incidents to a We are also proud of our many awards, the majority of our nuclear sites higher significance within the Company to guard against including the investment in received new pollution, prevention more serious events.
in 2006 07 we had 18 events all of which were regarded by the environmental agencies Communities Achievement Award 2007 and Control permits ppC, governing as either minor or of no impact compared to 22 in for sizewell Bs engineering partnership combustion plant such as diesel 2005 06. with neighbouring Leiston high school.
engines, gas turbines and boilers.
We also received revised radioactive no comparable information on a national scale, our sites fundsubstances Act rsA discharge raising and corporate matched-funding authorisations, with their tighter limits contributed 215,000 to the and conditions.
Both reflect extensive magnificent work of help the hospices.
work at our sites over the last year.
Controlling events For more on our approach to Csr and We have deliberately made our the environment, please go to: threshold for reporting environmental www.
com community 215,000 events much more stringent so that we r A i s E D B y E M p L o y E E s F o r h E L p t h E h o s p i C E s O u r p r O g r e s s All nuclear sites compliant with new pollution, prevention and Control and radioactive substances Act limits and requirements All British Energy sites have iso 14001 certification our Eggborough coal-fired power station achieved a major reduction in so emissions 2 A new working group formed to promote diversity in the Company several awards won in the Bto Business Bird Challenge 2006, protecting habitats around our sites O u r p l a n s Continuing to control the plant so that no events causing harm to the environment occur, and learning from minor non-compliances a L e s s o n I n C O m m u n I t y to prevent recurrence p a r t n e r s h I p Embedding and complying with the new more stringent rsA pupils from Leiston high school are benefiting from an award-winning and ppC limits partnership with sizewell B power Ensuring that environmental diligence is embedded throughout station to inspire the engineers the Company of tomorrow.
Focusing on the management and minimisation of solid waste both radioactive and non-radioactive surpassing the significant amount we raised for help the hospices during 2007 08 British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 14 our Board Sir Adrian Montague CBE 59 BrE Dr Stephen Billingham 49 BriF Chairman of the supervisory Board Chairman Finance Director of Areva, the international nuclear sir Adrian Montague joined British stephen Billingham was appointed as engineering group.
he is a Knight of the Energy as Chairman in november 2002.
Legion of honour and an officer of the he is currently Chairman of Friends immediately prior to joining British order of Merit.
he is Chairman of the provident plc, Michael page Energy, he was the group Finance technical Advisory Committee.
international plc, infrastructure Director of the engineering consultancy investors Limited and a Director of and support services group, Ws Atkins Bob Davies 58 Brgri London First, the Waterways trust, plc, during its successful financial Non-Executive Director skanska AB and CellMark AB.
he led the finance team which Bob Davies was appointed as an joining British Energy he undertook a signed the Metronet London independent non-Executive Director in number of senior roles in the underground public private partnership.
May 2006. he was previously Chief implementation of the governments he was previously group treasurer of Executive of Arriva plc, the uK transport private finance policies.
he was the engineering group BiCC plc now services group, from 1998 until April awarded a CBE in 2001 and was Balfour Beatty plc and held finance 2006 prior to which he was Chief knighted in December 2005. positions in severn trent plc, Burmah Executive of East Midlands Electricity plc.
oil plc and British telecom plc.
he holds an LLB in Law and Economics Bill Coley 64 BtriF from the university of Edinburgh and is Chief Executive Dr Pascal Colombani 61 Brgt a Fellow of the Chartered institute of Bill Coley accepted the position of Chief Non-Executive Director Management Accountants.
he is Executive in March 2005 and was Dr pascal Colombani was appointed as Chairman of Biffa plc, and a Director of formally appointed on 14 April 2005 an independent non-Executive Director Barratt Developments plc and northern having served as an independent nonin June 2003. he holds a Doctorate in Business Forum Limited.
in addition he Executive Director since 2003.
During nuclear physics and presently holds chairs the CBi Council, north East region his 37 year career with Duke power he directorships at Alstom sA, rhodia sA, and the Board of governors of the held a variety of management and technip sA, Valeos sA, and is an university of sunderland.
he is Chairman executive roles, culminating in group Associate Director and senior Adviser of the remuneration Committee.
president between 1997 and 2003. for Energy and high technology at A. t. he is a non-Executive Director of Ct Kearney.
he was, until 2003, Chairman John Delucca 64 BAgri Communications inc. peabody Energy and Chief Executive officer of the Non-Executive Director Corp. and Er Jahna Enterprises.
he is Commissariat lEnergie Atomique, John Delucca was appointed as an Chairman of the generation Board and a member of the Electricit fide France independent non-Executive Director in the Finance and policy Committee.
Board of Directors and the non-Executive 2004. he holds an MBA in Finance from Fairleigh-Dickinson university school of British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 15 graduate study.
he has held a variety of the Audit Committee and, from the Sir Robert Walmsley 66 BArgst senior roles in us business.
Most 2007 AgM will be senior independent Non-Executive Director recently, from 2003 until March 2005, non-Executive Director and Deputy sir robert Walmsley was appointed as he was Executive Vice-president and Chairman.
an independent non-Executive Director Chief Financial officer of the rEL in 2003. previously he served in the Consultancy group.
prior to that, from David Pryde 57 BArgri royal navy where his final appointment 1998 to 2002 he was Executive ViceNon-Executive Director was as Controller of the navy and president, Finance and Administration David pryde was appointed as an member of the navy Board as a Vice and Chief Financial officer of Coty inc. independent non-Executive Director in Admiral, starting in 1994.
During his and a member of their executive september 2004. he has extensive naval career he held a number of committee.
he is a non-Executive trading and risk management experience nuclear-related posts including service Director, and chairs the audit and has held various senior management as the Chairman of the naval nuclear committees of Deltacom, Enzo positions in trading businesses, technical safety panel and Director Biochem, Endo pharmaceuticals inc. including global head of precious Metals general, submarines.
he was knighted and the Elliott Company.
he is Deputy trading, global head of Commodity in 1995.
After retiring from the navy, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Derivatives trading and Marketing and he was appointed as Chief of Defence global head of Futures and options procurement a permanent secretary Ian Harley 57 BAgri Brokerage at Jp Morgan.
he was grade post in the Civil service, Non-Executive Director e-commerce strategist for Jp Morgan occupying that position from 1996 until ian harley was appointed as an Chase investment Bank and sat on the 2003. he is an independent Director of independent non-Executive Director in Boards of the Commodity Exchange, the general Dynamics Corporation, the 2002. prior to joining British Energy he Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Major projects Association, EDo held a variety of posts in the Finance, Futures industry Association.
he is Corporation, stratos global Corporation retail Banking and Wholesale Banking Chairman of the risk review Committee.
he is Chairman of the Divisions of Abbey national and spent governance and nominations nine years on their Board.
he is a Clare Spottiswoode CBE 54 BArgri Committee and the safety, health and Fellow of the institute of Chartered Non-Executive Director Environment Committee.
Accountants and Fellow and past Clare spottiswoode was appointed as B denotes member of the Board president of the institute of Bankers.
an independent non-Executive Director A denotes member of the Audit Committee he is currently a non-Executive Director in 2001.
Between 1993 and 1998 she r d enotes member of the remuneration of rentokil initial plc, JW Educational was Director general of ofgas and she Committee Limited and remploy Limited, Chairman was previously a non-Executive Director g d enotes member of the governance and of the Court of governors of the Whitgift of Booker plc.
she currently chairs gas nominations Committee Foundation and a Director of south strategies group Limited and is also a s d enotes member of the safety, health and London Church Fund and southwark non-Executive Director of Advanced Environment Committee Diocesan Board of Finance.
he was technology uK plc, Biofuels t d enotes member of the technical Advisory Committee previously Chairman of the Association Corporation, tullow oil plc and ri denotes member of the risk review for payment Clearing services, a Bergensen As.
she was awarded a CBE Committee member of the Deposit protection for services to industry in 1999. she F denotes member of the Finance and policy Board, having been appointed by the has been Deputy Chairman and senior Committee Bank of England, and a member of independent non-Executive Director the Financial services Authoritys since June 2002. she steps down at practitioner panel.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 16 Chairmans statement We believe that British Energy is well placed to secure a valuable role in any new nuclear programme as a result of owning sites suitable for new construction and the skills and experience of its staff in operating nuclear plant.
in financial terms, this has been a good year for British Energy but it could have been much better had it not been for our well publicised operational issues.
output from the nuclear stations has been disappointing.
there have been several challenges, in particular the boiler issues at our hunterston B and hinkley point B stations, which have given rise to prolonged outages.
it is a credit to the skill and dedication of our staff that these two stations are now in the process of returning to service.
Despite these major setbacks there are signs, as Bill Coley our Chief Executive discusses in his review, that all the work we are doing on investment in the plant, human performance and work processes and on further enhancing our nuclear safety culture is starting to show results.
sizewell B, our pWr station, is producing a level of performance that ranks with the worlds best.
s i r A D r i A n M o n t A g u E C B E 81.5 06 07 75.9 05 06 04 05 03 04 02 03 PENCE British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 17 We have made good progress in i am pleased to confirm that the Board B A S I C E A R N I N G S P E R S H A R E extending our fixed price sales book to has agreed to recommend the payment an extent that would have been almost of a base dividend of 13.6p per share.
unimaginable at the time of our rethis is our first dividend since the listing in January 2005.
in line with our our coal-fired power station, has had a stated dividend policy, we will also very good year and is performing at a consider the payment of an additional very satisfactory level.
dividend in respect of financial year 2006 07 in early 2008 after taking strategically, this is an interesting and account of the Companys financial potentially significant time for the condition at that time.
the governments Energy the basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing White paper published on 23 May has once again i would like to thank all the the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue highlighted the important part that British Energy staff who have worked during the year.
nuclear generation could play in hard this year in a, sometimes, delivering a low carbon economy.
British Energy group plc was listed on the London stock Exchange in January 2005, therefore, no believe that British Energy is well placed comparable information is available.
to secure a valuable role in any new We still have much to achieve.
our nuclear programme as a result of owning improvement programme is starting sites suitable for new construction and to show signs of progress.
i remain the skills and experience of its staff in confident that we can deliver significant operating nuclear plant.
We have value to shareholders in the years initiated a process to seek partners for ahead.
new nuclear build that has attracted significant interest from utilities, suppliers, customers and financial investors.
We hope in due course to p cement one or more partnerships.
Sir Adrian Montague CBE 13.6 During the year roy Anderson, our Chief Chairman B A s E D i V i D E n D p E r s h A r E nuclear officer, stepped down from the Board.
Following, this years Annual general Meeting, Clare spottiswoode will retire from the Board after five and a half years service.
i would like to extend my thanks to both roy and Clare for their contributions to British Energy.
As is our usual practice stephen Billingham, John Delucca and pascal Colombani will be standing for re-election to the Board at our AgM as will sir robert Walmsley.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 18 Chief Executives review We remain focused on our strategy to improve the long-term reliability of our power stations.
We are well positioned to build on the foundations we have laid through investment in our people, plant and processes.
this year has presented us with many challenges, two of which, the boilers at hinkley point B and hunterston B and the cooling water system at hartlepool, resulted in significant outages.
Although we delivered a strong financial result, contributing adjusted EBitDA of over 1.2bn, technical issues at a number of our stations have had a significant adverse impact on nuclear output.
however, there are improvements in many of our key nuclear metrics.
We have reorganised our management structure to align more closely with the technology across the fleet.
And we remain focused on our strategy to improve the long-term reliability of our power stations, building on an improved knowledge of the health of the plant.
in addition, we have made excellent progress in strengthening our fixed price trading book, improving price certainty for financial year 2007 08 and beyond.
i am optimistic about the outlook for the Company as we work to deliver a result of which we can be proud.
B i L L C o L E y 58.4 06 07 23 06 07 68.4 05 06 13 05 06 67.4 18 04 05 04 05 72.6 03 04 13 03 04 69.5 02 03 13 02 03 TWh % British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 19 our nuclear output for the year was in addition to these major unplanned 51.2tWh which is 9.2tWh lower than outages, there were 8.6tWh 6.5tWh last years nuclear output of 60.4tWh in 2005 06 of smaller losses of under and significantly below our original plan.
1tWh each, outage and refuelling unplanned Capability Loss Factor under overruns resulting in a net loss uCLF increased to 23% compared with of 0.3tWh 0.4tWh in 2005 06 and 13% in the previous year.
the total unplanned and non-routine loss for the output from Eggborough, our coal-fired year was 21.0tWh, which compares power station, was 7.2tWh for the year with 12.9tWh for the previous year compared with 8.0tWh in 2005 06. an unsatisfactory performance.
Eggborough is performing well and has made a significant financial contribution Despite the disappointing output this year.
figures, it is important that we continue to focus on our goal of achieving world sizewell B, our pWr station, has had class nuclear operations.
We took our a period of excellent performance first step towards achieving this goal in achieving a continuous run of 471 days our performance improvement between its refuelling outages in May programme pip in 2003 04 to develop 2005 and september 2006. the station and initiate the changes required to also completed its biggest ever outage improve our performance.
As a result T O T A L O U T P U T which included replacement of the of the recommendations from pip we reactor pressure vessel head and have targeted investment to improve upgrade of the refuelling machine.
leadership, culture, and human the outage was completed ahead of performance as well as plant materiel the initial plan with no lost time condition and management of plant accidents, nuclear reportable events or ageing issues.
in addition, we have environmental events.
sizewell B has adopted best practices from around the once again operated at world class world and have made changes in our standard levels since completing the organisational structure to improve outage in october 2006. operational focus and delivery of work.
With many of the foundations for output is the amount of electricity produced by the We completed statutory outages on improvement in place we have plants.
output for the year of 58.4tWh was 10tWh units at Dungeness B, hartlepool and transferred the responsibility for lower than last years output primarily due to unplanned losses incurred in connection with boiler issues at torness.
one unit at hinkley point B and continuous improvement to line hunterston B and hinkley point B and repairs to cast one at hunterston B also started their management.
statutory outages in the year.
however, planned inspections showed higher than i am not pleased with our output in expected levels of boiler tube cracking, 2006 07, but i am pleased with the extending these last two outages for progress we have made through inspections and repairs.
the remaining investment in our people, plant and U N P L A N N E D C A P A B I L I T Y units at hinkley point B and hunterston processes, and am optimistic for L O S S F A C T O R B were subsequently taken out of the future.
We have a fine team of service for the early inspection and dedicated professionals in place at repair of their boilers.
All four units British Energy, ready to build remained on outage throughout the rest on the progress made.
there remains of the year.
more work to be done through continued targeted investment, these prolonged unplanned outages improvement in system health and at hinkley point B and hunterston B human performance to achieve resulted in 9.4tWh of losses and were a result of which we can be proud.
the main reason for the reduction in We are committed to that end.
uCLF provides a measure of unplanned energy nuclear output and increase in uCLF.
in 2006 07 uCLF increased to 23% Both units at hartlepool were also taken compared with 13% in the previous year, mainly out of service from late september due to boiler issues at hinkley point B and hunterston B and repairs to cast iron pipework 2006 to December 2006 for repairs at hartlepool.
to cast iron pipe work related to the cooling water system.
this resulted in Bill Coley losses of 2.0tWh.
Chief executive British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 20 Financial review the improvement in financial performance reflects the significant increase in the groups average realised price per unit of output.
Overview the groups financial performance records significant improvement in its key financial indicators in comparison with last year, as follows: revenue up 16% at 2,999m 2006: 2,593m : Adjusted EBitDA up by 44% at 1,221m 2006: 846m : and operating profit up 25% at 794m 2006: 635m.
the improvement in financial performance reflects the significant increase in the groups average realised price per unit of output, which more than offset the 10tWh reduction in output to 58.4tWh.
the average realised price per unit increased to 44.2 MWh from 32.0 MWh.
the groups operating margin changed by a lesser amount, up by 7.9 MWh to 17.1 MWh, due to the effect of the reduced output, increases in controllable operating costs in line with expectations and costs incurred on boiler issues at hunterston B and hinkley point B. the improvement in financial performance has been reflected in the net cash position, which excludes restricted cash and other financial assets, which has increased during the year from 12m to 528m.
this improved financial position has been achieved while continuing with the groups investment programme.
investment in plant spend was 290m 2006: 283m, excluding approximately 24m 2006: nil incurred on boiler issues at hunterston B and hinkley point B. s t E p h E n B i L L i n g h A M British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 21 Financial Performance Summary of Results the results for the year ended 31 March 2007 are summarised as follows: Year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Revenue 2,999 2,593 operating and energy costs 1,778 1,747 1 Adjusted EBITDA 1,221 846 other operating income 93 95 Cash sweep payment 305 105 Depreciation 207 191 Amortisation and other charges 6 28 unrealised net losses gains on derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts 2 18 Operating profit 794 635 Financing charges credits interest payable 61 50 m interest receivable 53 26 other finance income expenses 10 12 2,999 Profit before taxation 796 599 r E V E n u E taxation 331 169 Net profit for the year attributable to shareholders 465 430 1 Adjusted EBitDA is defined as profit before financing charges credits, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and other charges, unrealised net losses gains on derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts, Cash sweep payment, other exceptional operating expenses and other operating income.
m 1,221 Revenue and Output revenue consists primarily of wholesale generation sales and sales by the groups A D J u s t E D E B i t D A direct supply business, British Energy Direct.
the analysis of revenue for the year ended 31 March 2007 is as follows: Year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Revenue Wholesale generation sales 1,328 1,175 Direct supply sales excluding recovery of energy supply costs and renewable energy purchases recharged to customers 1,252 1,017 Revenue from generated electricity 2,580 2,192 Energy supply costs recharged to customers 362 356 renewable energy purchases recharged to customers 46 26 Miscellaneous income 11 19 Total revenue 2,999 2,593 output is analysed as follows: Year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 TWh tWh nuclear 51.2 60.4 Coal-fired power station Eggborough 7.2 8.0 Total output 58.4 68.4 British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 22 Financial review output for the year of 58.4tWh was 10tWh lower than last years output primarily Carbon allowance costs totalled due to unplanned losses incurred in connection with boiler issues at hunterston B 22m for the year 2006: 63m, or and hinkley point B and repairs to cast iron pipework at hartlepool.
the reduction in unit cost is primarily due Although output is significantly reduced in comparison with last year, wholesale to the fall in the market price of phase i generation sales and direct supply sales, excluding recovery of energy supply costs carbon allowances in the year from and renewable energy purchases recharged to customers, have increased by approximately 27 tCo at 31 March 2 153m and 235m respectively from 2006. the significant increase in realised 2006 to approximately 1 tCo at 31 2 electricity prices from 32.0 MWh last year to 44.2 MWh this year has more than March 2007. the cost of 22m includes offset the adverse impact of the reduction in output and was the key factor behind a credit due to revaluation of the the increase in revenue and the improved overall financial performance.
realised previous years carbon allowance price is calculated as revenue from generated electricity divided by total output.
liability of 38m, losses on the close out of forward contracts of 15m and Operating and Energy Costs Summary a write down of carbon allowance the group operating and energy costs are analysed as follows: intangible assets of 41m.
it should be noted that it is the groups policy to Year ended year ended lock in the costs at the time of selling 31 March 31 March Eggboroughs output forward and 2007 2006 therefore losses on forward contracts m m and write down of carbon allowance intangible assets are the accounting Fuel costs nuclear 278 349 entries that match the sales recognised Eggborough 156 207 in the revenue line of the consolidated total fuel costs 434 556 income statement.
Materials and services 562 487 staff costs including severance costs 374 322 Materials and services costs of 562m 2006: 487m comprise the operating Operating costs of generated electricity 1,370 1,365 expenses of the power stations and Energy supply costs recharged to customers 362 356 support functions.
of the 75m renewable energy purchases recharged to customers 46 26 increase, 13m relates to increased Total operating and energy costs 1,778 1,747 expenditure on non-recurring repair expenditure projects nrr included in Unit Operating Cost and Operating Margin the groups investment programme.
unit operating cost increased to 27.1 MWh for the year from 22.8 MWh in Expenditure on these projects was 2006, and is calculated as operating costs of generated electricity plus depreciation 132m in the year 2006: 119m.
Also and software amortisation, divided by total output.
the increase in unit operating included is approximately 24m 2006: costs of 4.3 MWh is primarily due to the reduced output.
Materials and services nil spent on the boiler repairs at and staff costs, excluding the costs relating to investment in plant, have increased hunterston B and hinkley point B. the in line with expectations.
the reduction in fuel costs reflects the reduced output remaining 38m of the increase in in the year.
For further information on each of these categories refer to the materials and services costs is mainly sections below.
due to higher levels of station maintenance of 13m, additional Deducting unit operating cost from realised price per unit results in an operating insurance costs of 10m and a margin per unit of 17.1 MWh for 2007 compared to 9.2 MWh for 2006. reduction in the transmission credit received from national grid for hinkley Operating and Energy Costs point B of 7m due to the reduction in nuclear fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, conversion and output from that station in the year.
enrichment services and fuel element fabrication front end and the costs of reprocessing, long-term storage and eventual disposal of the resulting waste staff costs totalled 374m 2006: products back end.
Full provision is also made for the projected back end costs 322m, an increase of 52m from last of unburnt fuel at station closure.
higher staff numbers, the annual pay rise and additional overtime due to nuclear fuel costs have reduced by 71m to 278m 2006: 349m due primarily extended outages contributed to 28m to the reduction in nuclear output.
the nuclear fuel cost per unit has decreased of the increase.
the groups headcount from 5.8 MWh to 5.4 MWh largely due to the revaluation of the provision for increased from 5,758 at the beginning unburnt fuel at station closure, which is not linked to the output for the period but of the year to 6,062 at 31 March 2007. to the amount of unburnt fuel in each individual reactor at the balance sheet date.
the pay rise and recent increase in After adjusting for this provision movement, the underlying unit cost is consistent headcount also impacted the groups with last year.
pension costs which increased by 15m.
the group also incurred planned Eggborough fuel costs totalled 156m for the year 2006: 207m, or severance costs of 9m in the year 21.7 MWh 2006: 25.9 MWh.
Eggborough fuel costs include the cost of coal, 2006: nil.
oil, biomass and carbon allowances.
Excluding carbon allowances, Eggborough fuel costs were 134m 2006: 144m or 18.6 MWh 2006: 18.0 MWh.
the Energy supply costs were 362m for increase in unit costs reflect the upward movement in coal prices.
the year 2006: 356m and primarily comprise the costs to the group of the British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 23 renewable obligation scheme, tnuos, equipment.
Amortisation and other 26m relates to interest earned on Duos and Bsuos costs, all of which are charges of 6m relates to amortisation cash deposits.
this has increased as fully recovered within revenue.
in 2006 a result of higher interest bearing cash amortisation and other charges deposits and higher interest rates in the group purchases energy from comprised 5m of software amortisation, 2007 compared to 2006. renewable sources for two reasons, together with a 23m charge to the firstly to satisfy customers demands for consolidated income statement to reduce Taxation energy to be produced from renewable goodwill in respect of a revaluation of the the taxation charge of 331m 2006: sources and secondly to obtain deferred tax asset.
169m has been recognised in the renewable obligation Certificates consolidated income statement for the roCs to contribute towards satisfying Unrealised Net Losses Gains on year.
this comprises a deferred tax the groups obligations under the Derivative Financial Instruments and charge of 272m 2006: 169m and renewable obligation scheme.
the cost Commodity Contracts a current tax charge of 59m 2006: of purchased electricity from renewable unrealised losses or gains on financial nil.
this represents an effective tax sources is accounted for in renewable instruments and commodity contracts rate of 42%.
Adjusting for the impact of energy purchases, net of the value of arise as a result of fair value the Cash sweep payment, which is nonroCs and Levy Exemption Certificates movements in commodity contracts deductible for tax, results in an LECs.
the value of roCs and LECs which fall within the scope of iAs 39 effective tax rate of 30%.
are accounted for separately within Financial instruments: recognition intangible assets.
the volume of and Measurement iAs 39. some of the majority of the accumulated tax energy purchased from renewable these contracts are accounted for as losses of 869m as at 31 March 2006 sources was higher in 2007 at 1.1tWh cash flow hedges, with movements in relating to the groups principal compared to 0.7tWh in 2006 which fair value taken directly to equity in subsidiaries were fully utilised in the resulted in renewable energy purchases the hedge reserve.
therefore the group has become increasing to 46m in 2007 from 26m movements in all other contracts liable for corporation tax of 59m in 2006. in the scope of iAs 39 are presented during 2007. the group has made in the unrealised net losses gains instalment payments of 49m during Other Operating Income on derivative financial instruments the year ended 31 March 2007. other operating income of 93m for and commodity contracts line of the the year 2006: 95m relates to the consolidated income statement.
Net Profit and Earnings per Share utilisation of 76m 2006: 95m and net profit for the year attributable to the release of 17m 2006: nil of the the charge to the consolidated income shareholders was 465m compared to contracts provision, which was statement this year of 2m 2006: 430m for 2006. established at rED.
18m credit represents a charge for the fair value movements in carbon Basic earnings per share for the year Cash Sweep Payment allowance forward contracts of 73m was 81.5p 2006: 75.9p.
this is based As part of the agreements made at the 2006: 9m credit offset by a credit for on the net profit for the year divided by time of restructuring, the Company has the fair value movement of electricity the weighted average number of an obligation to make payments to the and other forward contracts of 71m ordinary shares in issue during the year.
nLF should certain criteria be met.
accordance with the terms of the the diluted earnings per share for the Contribution Agreement, a Cash sweep included in the fair value movements year was 79.9p 2006: 73.8p.
this is payment of 305m 2006: 105m is due is a charge relating to unrealised losses based on the net profit for the year and has been accrued in the consolidated on phase i carbon allowance forward divided by the weighted average number financial statements in accordance with contracts entered into to lock in of ordinary shares in issue, together the groups accounting policy.
the costs at the time of selling with the dilutive weighted average of Eggboroughs future output.
if the price potential ordinary shares in respect of the Cash sweep percentage was of phase i carbon allowances remains the Companys Warrants issued to 64.04% at 31 March 2007 2006: at current prices then this fair value shareholders on restructuring.
it reduced by approximately movement will be reflected in 0.3% because the nLF benefited from Eggboroughs fuel costs as a charge the adjusted earnings per share for the receiving a Cash sweep payment in of 64m in the year ending 31 March year was 48.2p 2006: 33.3p.
the respect of the year ended 31 March 2008. these losses are funded by Cash sweep payment of 305m 2006: 2006 with no corresponding distribution cash provided to satisfy variation 105m and the net profit attributable to shareholders.
the remainder of the margin calls.
to shareholders of 465m 2006: decrease relates to the exercise of 430m do not necessarily reflect the 6,399,439 of the Companys Warrants.
Financing Charges Credits respective economic interests of the More details on the Cash sweep interest payable of 61m 2006: 50m nLF and equity shareholders in the payment are included in the other relates primarily to interest on the profits of the group.
the calculation in Financial issues section.
groups Bonds, together with finance any given year of the annual Cash fees on structured trading contracts.
sweep payment is based on cash flows Depreciation, Amortisation and in line with the annual repayment of and the retention of appropriate cash Other Charges the Bond principal in March 2006, target Amount and expenditure Depreciation of 207m was 16m higher the interest payable on the Bonds reserves Forecast Expenditure than last year due to expenditure on has declined by 3m to 44m.
therefore an adjusted power stations and other plant and interest receivable of 53m 2006: earnings per share has been calculated British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 24 Financial review by excluding the Cash sweep payment expense from earnings and adjusting the in addition to cash and cash equivalents weighted average share capital by the number of shares that would have been in there are restricted cash and other issue if the nLF had fully converted their interest at the balance sheet date.
financial assets of 146m 2006: 206m at 31 March 2007, of which Investment Programme 90m 2006: 201m is cash posted British Energys goal of achieving world class operational performance requires as collateral in support of trading significant expenditure to improve the reliability of the groups power stations.
group incurred the following costs as part of its continuing programme of investment: At 31 March 2007, there was total debt Year ended Year ended year ended year ended of 573m 2006: 626m resulting in a 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March net cash position excluding restricted 2007 2007 2006 2006 cash and other financial assets of Capital Investment Capital investment 528m 2006: 12m.
the total debt expenditure in Plant expenditure in plant comprised: m m m m 1 A long-term project finance loan of Capital additions 123 123 120 120 123m 2006: 134m secured on the strategic spares 11 9 22 18 assets of Eggborough power Limited, a statutory outage costs 101 78 subsidiary company that operates the Capitalised expenditure 235 132 220 138 Eggborough coal-fired power station.
non-recurring repair expenditure projects nrr 132 119 2 An aggregate principal amount pip staff costs 26 26 of 450m 2006: 492m sterling Total 235 290 220 283 denominated guaranteed bonds due between 2008 and 2022. nrr project expenditure of 132m 2006: 119m excludes boiler issues at the group has a receivables financing hunterston B and hinkley point B of 24m 2006: nil.
Both are included in facility of up to a maximum of 60m materials and services costs.
2006: 60m subject to the level of the groups trade receivables.
this is a three of the 235m 2006: 220m of capital expenditure, 224m 2006: 215m year committed facility signed in August was capitalised within property, plant and equipment, and the remaining 11m 2004.
At 31 March 2007 and 2006: 5m, relating to systems software, was capitalised in intangible assets.
31 March 2006 the facility was undrawn.
Financial Position During the year the group entered into Liquidity, Cash Flows and Capital Resources a 150m committed letter of credit As at 31 March 2007 the group had cash and cash equivalents of 1,101m facility, which expires in the year ending compared to 638m at 31 March 2006. the increase in cash and cash equivalents 31 March 2009. the group also entered is analysed in the following table: into a 100m and 50m facility, both of Year ended year ended which expire in the year ending 31 March 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 2008.
All three facilities were undrawn m m during the year ended 31 March 2007. net cash inflow generated from operations 751 664 Net Assets and Equity net cash used in investing activities 235 220 net assets increased to 2,647m net cash used in financing activities 53 41 2006: 2,101m.
significant movements within the overall increase Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 463 403 in net assets include the improvement Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 638 235 in the net cash of 516m to 528m, Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,101 638 the reduction in the retirement benefit obligations of 150m to 65m and the net cash inflow generated from operations was 751m for 2007 2006: 664m, reduction in the deferred tax asset of reflecting the level of operating profit.
this takes account of the groups first Cash 307m to a deferred tax liability of sweep payment of 105m and the deferral of 168m of cash receipts from certain 63m at 31 March 2007. capped collateral power sales contracts.
the cash deferred from these capped collateral power sales contracts is projected to increase to approximately 300m total shareholders equity was 2,647m by 31 March 2008. this deferred cash will be received over subsequent periods up 2006: 2,101m.
to 2011 or earlier to the extent that it is substituted by letters of credit.
Nuclear Liabilities and Funding net cash used in investing activities was 235m for the year 2006: 220m.
Arrangements under the arrangements with the net cash used in financing activities was 53m for the year 2006: 41m.
this secretary of state implemented on comprises a 53m 2006: 50m repayment of bond principal, 6m 2006: nil restructuring the nLF will fund, subject consideration for the purchase of own shares to satisfy share incentive schemes, to certain exceptions, the groups less 6m 2006: 9m of proceeds from the exercise of Warrants.
qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 25 decommissioning costs.
As part of the which increased the level of estimated decommissioning costs by 8m, which is in arrangements the group will make addition to the 956m that was reflected in the consolidated financial statements for certain payments to the nLF, including the year ended 31 March 2006.
As part of the restructuring arrangements, the group the Cash sweep payment.
the nLF has is indemnified by the government for any future shortfall in nLF funding of qualifying the right, from time to time, to convert nuclear liabilities and decommissioning costs, therefore the nLF receivable has also all or part of the Cash sweep payment been increased by 8m.
Other Financial Issues the government provides an indemnity Cash Sweep Payment Mechanism to cover liabilities for spent Agr fuel the application of the adjustment formula in the Contribution Agreement following loaded pre-restructuring.
the nuclear a Cash sweep payment, in particular following any conversion by the nLF of part or liabilities receivable is recognised as an all of its Cash sweep payment right, would not adequately maintain the relative asset on the groups consolidated economic interest of shareholders as intended.
the extent of the adverse effect on balance sheet in respect of this shareholders depends on the amount of any payment to the nLF and the payment indemnity.
the government also percentage prevailing at the time that such payment occurs.
in relation to the Cash indemnifies the group against any future sweep payment paid in september 2006 of 105m, the group estimates that the shortfall in nLF funding of qualifying adjustment to the payment percentage was insufficient to preserve the economic uncontracted nuclear liabilities including interests of the shareholders prevailing immediately before the Cash sweep pWr back end fuel services and payment by an amount of approximately 0.5m.
however, the adverse impact qualifying nuclear decommissioning increases both as the value of the Cash sweep payment increases and as the costs.
the nLF receivable asset payment percentage falls following any Cash sweep conversion by the nLF.
in the represents the aggregate value of the table below, the extent of the adverse effect is illustrated for different Cash sweep investments held by the nLF and the payments and payment percentages using the market price of British Energy group government indemnity.
the group will plcs shares at 30 March 2007 of 4.87.
Adverse effect on continue to recognise nuclear liabilities shareholders assuming on its consolidated balance sheet pending their discharge by payments Cash sweep Cash sweep payment payment received from the nLF.
percentage of percentage of 50% 30% Both the nuclear liabilities receivable m m and the nLF receivable are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at current Illustrative Cash Sweep Payment price levels.
Each year the financing 100m 2 4 charges in the consolidated income 200m 7 13 statement will include the revalorisation 300m 13 27 of these receivables which will match 400m 22 45 the revalorisation of the nuclear 500m 33 67 liabilities, provided the group does not incur any non-qualifying nuclear Currently, on a conversion by the nLF of part or all of its Cash sweep payment right, liabilities.
At 31 March 2007 the total the nLF may be entitled to both a Cash sweep payment on the part converted for nLF and nuclear liabilities receivables the period up to conversion and a dividend in respect of the same period on the was 5,469m 2006: 5,237m.
of the shares arising from the conversion.
in the event of a conversion by the nLF, the total, 195m was included in current Company will seek to agree with the nLF and the government an amendment to the assets 2006: 186m and 5,274m Cash sweep payment right and Cash sweep percentage adjustment formula so as 2006: 5,051m was included in nonto ensure the principle of economic parity is maintained and to avoid an unintended current assets.
this equates to the dilution of future dividends.
present value of associated nuclear liabilities included in the groups current Dividend Policy liabilities of 195m 2006: 186m and in the restructuring prospectus, the Board stated its intention to distribute to non-current liabilities of 5,274m shareholders as much of the Companys cash flow as prudently possible.
the Board currently intends that the Company will pay 13.6p per ordinary share per in the Annual report and Accounts for annum as a base dividend, payable as a final dividend equivalent to 80m in total the year ended 31 March 2006 it was based on current issued share capital fully diluted by the exercise of all remaining highlighted that the value attributed to Warrants provided it is approved at the Companys forthcoming AgM.
it is uncontracted nuclear liabilities and anticipated that the annual base dividend will be sustainable for the foreseeable decommissioning costs was being refuture based on the Companys assessment of forecast electricity prices and output.
assessed by way of the Quinquennial review, which was completed subject the total amount of the base dividend will increase if the nLF converts its to final agreement with the nuclear contractual right to the Cash sweep into shares.
Decommissioning Authority nDA and the other regulators nuclear in addition to the base dividend, the Board intends to consider the payment each installations inspectorate, the year of an additional dividend from available cash in February following the third Environment Agency and the scottish quarter results announcement.
the Board will seek to return all surplus capital to Environment protection Agency.
the shareholders as an additional dividend after taking into account the Companys group has now received final agreement, British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 26 Financial review need to increase financial stability, convert its entitlement to future Cash Ampere and its subsidiary, Ampere 1 make appropriate investments, address sweep payments into share capital the Limited to the action.
the hearing into the pension scheme deficit, meet the conversion this could have an impact the action has taken place and the collateral requirements of the group on future dividend policy.
the impact judgement of the court is awaited.
and, over time, allow for its investment could arise because such a conversion in new nuclear build.
it is anticipated would create additional share premium Post Balance Sheet Events that the amount of additional dividend reserves, as well as potentially A base dividend, payable as a final will vary from year to year.
in light of significantly increasing the carrying dividend, of 13.6p per ordinary share current operating difficulties, the Board value of British Energy group plcs equivalent to 80m in total based on expects to pay particular attention to investments in subsidiaries.
the current issued share capital fully diluted recent performance history and any increase in carrying value of the by the exercise of all remaining liquidity issues in determining the investments in subsidiaries would be Warrants, has been recommended by amount of any additional dividend.
equivalent to the fair value of the Cash the Board of Directors since the year sweep payment obligation extinguished end and will be presented at the the amount of cash the Company is able by the conversion, and would be valued Companys AgM in July for approval.
to pay out as dividends is subject to for these purposes on the basis of the the proposed dividend has not been restrictions under the Contribution aggregate market price of the shares recognised as a distribution in the Agreement.
these require the Company issued upon a conversion.
the increase consolidated financial statements.
a to maintain as a cash reserve 490m in carrying value of the investments plus the amount by which cash employed would increase the risk that impairment on 21 March 2007, the government as collateral exceeds 200m target charges arising at a later date may announced its intention to reduce the Amount and b not to pay a dividend impact upon the Companys corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% unless i the cash at the financial year distributable reserves position and and phase out industrial buildings end prior to the year in which the dividend could restrict the Companys ability to allowances, both with effect from 1 April is to be paid exceeded the aggregate of, pay dividends to an enlarged 2008. these changes have not been amongst other things, the dividend shareholder base, post-conversion, in reflected in the financial statements at proposed and the target Amount and ii accordance with the dividend policy.
31 March 2007 because they are not the cash at the financial year end in which considered to be substantively enacted the dividend is paid would or would be With a view to attempting to minimise at the balance sheet date.
An estimate likely to exceed the aggregate of, amongst the risk of impairment charges adversely of the financial impact of these changes other things, the dividend proposed and affecting the Companys distributable at 31 March 2007 is that it would the target Amount.
the restrictions are reserves position in the event of a increase the net deferred tax liability by also, in effect, replicated in the terms of conversion, the Company would expect 39m to 102m.
to take steps to implement a Court approved reduction of share premium on 11 May 2007 and 14 May 2007 the amount the Company is able to reserve.
in the event of such a Court respectively, British Energy received lawfully distribute will also depend on process being unsuccessful, the permission from the nii to restart the availability of sufficient distributable Company would explore other reactor 4 at hinkley point B nuclear reserves.
the Companys distributable alternatives to mitigate the risk.
power station and reactor 4 at reserves may be adversely impacted as hunterston B nuclear power station.
on a result of the accounting treatment Eggborough Legal Proceedings 21 May 2007, British Energy received arising on any conversion by the nLF of British Energy has instigated permission from the nii to restart its contractual right to the Cash sweep.
proceedings against Credit suisse in reactor 3 at hinkley point B nuclear For further details refer to the section relation to its involvement in power station and reactor 3 at on distributable reserves set out below.
transactions which it believes are in hunterston B nuclear power station.
the breach of British Energys rights under permission is for the return to service of in respect of the year ended 31 March the terms of finance agreements all four units at around 70% load.
2007 the Board intends that the relating to the Eggborough power Company will pay a base dividend of station.
the transactions in question Basis of Presentation of 80m as a final dividend after the relate to the exercise of the lending Financial Statements Companys AgM in July 2007. in addition, banks options to acquire the power the consolidated financial statements an additional dividend, as agreed by the station in 2010. the arrangements for the years ended 31 March 2007 and Board, may be paid after the 2007 08 involve the consolidation of interests 2006 have been prepared in accordance third quarter results announcement into a company called Ampere Limited, with international Financial reporting expected in February 2008. which would control the exercise of the standards iFrs as adopted by the options to acquire Eggborough.
British European union, international Financial Distributable Reserves Energy has received legal advice that reporting interpretations Committee the payment of dividends by the such arrangements are not permitted iFriC interpretations and the provisions Company is governed, among other under the Eggborough finance of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to things, by the Companies Act 1985 and agreements.
in addition, British Energy companies reporting under iFrs.
the application of uK gAAp, and does not consider the transactions in requires that distributable reserves be question to be in the best interests of available within the listed parent British Energy and its shareholders.
share premium reserves are the current proceedings against Credit not distributable to shareholders.
suisse seek a declaration that the proposed transactions are unlawful.
Stephen Billingham if the nLF were to exercise its right At a court hearing on 19 March 2007, finance Director under the Contribution Agreement, to Mr Justice Field made an order to join British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 27 summary remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 march 2007 Introduction the long-term incentive plans performance targets this is the summary of the information in the remuneration should provide an immediate alignment between Committee report in the Companys Annual report and management and shareholders.
Accounts that complies with the relevant legislation.
the full the aggregate incentive opportunity should be market remuneration Committee report is available on our website.
competitive, although not higher than the current Lt plan, with the balance between short and long-term incentive Terms of Reference pay reflecting the groups current stage of development.
the Committee is responsible to the Board for determining share ownership guidelines should be introduced linked the pay, benefits and employment conditions including to the out turn of the new long-term incentive arrangements pensions of the Executive Directors and the most senior staff the proposals will be put forward for approval by in the Company those reporting directly to the Chief Executive.
shareholders at the AgM and full details are contained in it also reviews the pay and benefits of other senior staff to the Chairmans Letter for 2006 07. ensure that fair and robust remuneration policies exist.
the Committee intends to replace the Lt plan with the Remuneration Policy revised incentive arrangements that are set out below for the groups remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and the financial year commencing on 1 April 2007 and each incentivise management with the appropriate professional, year thereafter.
managerial and operational expertise necessary to achieve the groups objectives and deliver shareholder value.
Elements of Remuneration in determining the remuneration package of each Executive the Committees aim is that the total package including Director the Committee considers five main elements, each benefits and incentives is broadly competitive both in terms of which is benchmarked against the external market.
the of the uK market and in terms of the international market for benchmarking process draws comparisons across a wide executives with nuclear experience.
range of organisations, predominantly major uK listed public companies including utility companies.
Benchmarking also the Committees policy is that base salaries are positioned involves consultation with the Committees external advisors broadly around the market median with incentive and commercial providers of remuneration surveys.
opportunities that reflect the groups overall strategy and the challenges it faces.
the Committee believes that overall i Base Pay packages should be aligned to shareholder interests to create Base pay and benefits in kind are reviewed annually.
the sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Committee aims to maintain individual salaries at or about the market median, taking into account experience, level of in particular, it is the Committees policy that: responsibility and individual performance.
the base pay of A significant proportion of the remuneration of the Chief Executive Directors and senior staff was last reviewed as at Executive and the senior management team should be 1 July 2006. the current annual base salary levels for the variable and linked to the performance of the group.
Executive Directors are as follows: Bill Coley 660,000 and the movement in base pay of the Directors and the stephen Billingham 415,000. senior staff should be broadly in line with the increases awarded to other staff recognising the need from time ii Annual Performance Incentive Plan to time to adjust salaries to the external market.
With the exception of Bill Coley, the Committee has not in determining the link between base and variable pay, historically operated an annual performance incentive plan for the group should be mindful of its safety and the Executive Directors.
part of the Lt plan is, however, paid environmental priorities.
During 2006 07, Bill Coley was entitled to a there should be a strong and clear link between reward maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary.
and performance against agreed stretch targets both in the short and long-term.
the relevant targets were not met, as such no bonus was paid to Bill Coley for 2006 07. the Committee conducted a review of incentive arrangements during 2006 07 with advice from independent advisors new For the financial year commencing 1 April 2007, a new annual Bridge street Consultants LLp and input from Company bonus plan will be introduced for the Executive Directors Executives.
the review was also timely given the groups under which the maximum potential bonus opportunity will be continuing objective of improving its operational capabilities set at 150% of salary for each Executive Director with the with regard to its existing stations and, at the same time, performance targets reflecting the groups focus on improved ensuring that it has an appropriate reward framework in place operational performance.
the targets that will apply for the to support the development of new nuclear facilities over the forthcoming year will focus on some or all of the following: longer term.
outage quality, unplanned losses, unit operating margin, revenue generation, cost control, plant life extension and the conclusions of that review are that: project delivery.
the weighting of the selected measures will it is now an appropriate time to establish separate short be tailored to the individual and their responsibilities.
and long-term incentive arrangements in place of the Long-term Deferred Bonus plan the Lt plan operated Material out-performance of budget will be required for bonus since the restructuring of the business that took place at payments towards the maximum with all bonus targets the end of 2004. underpinned by a safety condition.
if the minimum safety the short-term performance targets should support the threshold is not met, no bonuses will become payable.
key objective of improving operational performance.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 28 summary remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 march 2007 iii Share Options and Incentive Schemes lt plan the Finance Director and three other senior staff participate in the Lt plan.
the table below shows the targets, relative weightings and outturn appropriate to the Lt plan for 2006 07. the maximum level of award for financial year 2006 07 was 420% of salary.
threshold Adjusted outcome as group group group a multiple target Weighting target targets target unit outturn of salary output 50% 62.38 65.5 68 tWh 51.21 0.00 uCLF 50% 5.24 4 3 tWh 14.10 0.00 notes: 1 the uCLF target was the sum of individual losses less than 1tWh.
2 the Committee resolved that notwithstanding the threshold group target if output was less than 63tWh or uCLF performance was greater than 5tWh then there would be no award.
on the basis of the details above no award was made under proposed long-term Incentive plan the Lt plan for 2006 07. the key features of the new long-term incentive plan are as follows: no further awards will be made under the Lt plan and the Committee intends that it will be replaced with a revised longIndividual limit term incentive plan if shareholder approval is given at the Executive Directors and members of the senior team will be Companys 2007 AgM.
eligible to receive an award over shares normally structured as nil cost options up to a market value in any financial year Chief executive incentive arrangements of up to 200% of salary.
Bill Coley has historically not participated in the Lt plan and been subject to a separate set of incentive arrangements.
his the Committee is to adopt a policy that will initially restrict incentive arrangements have been participation in the annual awards to the following levels: performance incentive plan disclosed above and grants of Chief Executive: 150% of salary share options.
Executive Director: 125% of salary other senior team members: 100% of salary in addition to the grant of options made to Bill Coley on 20 December 2005 as indicated in last years report a further performance conditions grant of options over shares worth two times salary was Awards are to be subject to a total shareholder return tsr made to him on 24 november 2006. performance condition measuring the groups performance over a three year period relative to a comparator group of 23 Both grants of options are subject to a performance condition companies involved in mining, oil extraction and electricity based on nuclear output during the 2007 08 financial year.
production i. e. energy in its widest sense.
the original intention had been to align the targets to the Lt plan target set for that year.
however, with the proposal to the vesting schedule to apply to awards is set out below: replace the Lt plan with a performance share plan, the rank of British Energys Level of vesting Committee have set targets specifically for this option grant.
tsr against comparator group % of total award the targets have been set as a sliding scale.
the minimum target has been set at a level that is commensurate with the Less than median 0 business plan target for nuclear output set for the year Median 25 2007 08 and its achievement will result in 75% of the options upper quartile 100 vesting.
the maximum target requires performance Between median and 25 to 100 significantly ahead of the threshold level and its achievement upper quartile straight line prorating will result in the entire option award vesting.
if the minimum target is not achieved then, no options will vest.
the Committee does not consider it appropriate to disclose the Full details of the proposed new incentive plan are set out in actual targets at this time for commercial reasons.
however, the notice of AgM.
the targets will be disclosed in the Committees report next year.
shareholding guidelines in tandem with the adoption of the new long-term incentive the Committee does not intend to make any further share plan, the Committee intends to introduce share ownership option awards to Bill Coley who will, in future years, guidelines that will require participants to build up the participate in the new long-term incentive arrangements along following share ownership levels, with the face value of the with the other members of the senior team.
shares expressed as a percentage of salary: Chief Executive: 150% of salary Executive Directors: 100% of salary other senior team members: 50% of salary British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 29 summary remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 march 2007 the expectation set by the Committee is that these share service Contracts ownership requirements would be achieved through the the Committees policy is to set service contract notice periods retention of at least half of the after tax number of vested at one year or less without any express provisions in respect shares and that the guidelines should be met within five years.
if it is ever necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new Executive Directors who are externally all employee share Incentive plan recruited, it is the Committees policy to reduce these as it was a condition of the Lt plan that the Directors declined soon as possible after the initial period has expired.
the invitation to participate in the Companys all-employee share incentive plan sip under which eligible employees stephen Billingham has a 12 month rolling contract and Bill may be awarded free shares linked to group and business Coley has a six month rolling contract.
the same notice unit performance.
if the new proposals are approved by period applies if the Company or the Executive Director shareholders then in the future this restriction will be lifted.
sharesave scheme non-executive Directors Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the allthe remuneration of non-Executive Directors is determined by employee sharesave scheme, which is offered to all the Board without the participation of the Director concerned.
employees on the same terms in line with hMrC regulations, Appointed for three years, the non-Executive Directors do not for which there are no performance conditions.
have service contracts, they are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes and they do not receive iv Retirement Benefits any pension provision from the Company.
the retirement benefits offered to Executive Directors are as follows: the fee structures for non-Executive Directors were not stephen Billingham is a member of the British Energy changed during the year.
they were last reviewed on 1 generation group BEgg of the Electricity supply september 2004 and apply to all non-Executive Directors pension scheme.
roy Anderson was a member of BEgg during the period of his employment.
the fees shown for the non-Executive Directors in the Bill Coley is not a member of any Company pension Directors Emoluments table include 13,000 for each scheme nor was any payment made to him in lieu of Director pro-rata in the case of Bob Davies which was paid any pension arrangement.
v Other Benefits the Committee reviewed the fees payable to the Chairman other benefits are available to the Executive Directors.
With effect from 1 July 2006, the fees these differ by individual but will comprise some or all payable to sir Adrian Montague as Chairman were increased of the following.
of this total 50,000 per annum is A company car or allowance in lieu and fuel paid in the form of shares in the Company.
Medical and additional life insurance reimbursement of telephone rental and mobile phone subscription to professional bodies Eligibility to participate in the all-employee sharesave scheme and share incentive plan Directors have declined their invitation to participate in the sip Accommodation and relocation expenses overseas service premium British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 30 summary remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 march 2007 Directors emoluments the tables below show Directors Emoluments for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Total Compensation Accommoemoluments Basic salary Contingent for loss of dation and Other excluding Pension and fees Bonus fees office relocation benefits pension contributions k k k k k k k k name 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 A Montague 225.1 225.1 s Billingham 384.3 15.7 400.0 27.5 B Coley 645.1 114.6 0.7 760.4 p Colombani 74.8 74.8 J Delucca 76.8 76.8 1 B Davies 63.4 63.4 i harley 68.0 68.0 D pryde 83.0 83.0 C spottiswoode 78.8 78.8 r Walmsley 88.3 88.3 Total emoluments for serving Directors at 31 March 2007 1,787.6 114.6 16.4 1,918.6 27.5 Directors who have left during the year 2 r Anderson 257.1 1,100.5 35.7 12.3 1,405.6 18.3 Total emoluments all Directors 2,044.7 1,100.5 150.3 28.7 3,324.2 45.8 notes: 1 Bob Davies joined British Energy on 1 May 2006.
2 roy Anderson resigned from the Board on 17 november 2006. the payment shown above represents compensation for the loss of salary including pension contributions and other contractual benefits during his contractual notice period.
it also includes compensation in respect of share options granted under the interim and Long-term plans which had vested or which would have been granted and would have vested during the period equivalent to his contractual notice.
options which would have vested outside the notice period have lapsed.
no options or awards were exercised by the Executive Directors during the financial year.
the information in the table above has been subject to audit as required by the Companies Act 1985. shares and share Options the table below shows Directors shareholdings as at 31 March 2007. there have been no changes to the Directors shareholdings set out below except in respect of the payment of part of the non-Executive Directors fees in the form of shares.
Director share Dealings 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 Adrian Montague 11,793 6,583 stephen Billingham Bill Coley 8,905 8,905 pascal Colombani 5,242 3,882 Bob Davies 2,406 John DeLucca 5,295 3,912 ian harley 5,366 3,922 David pryde 10,331 8,948 Clare spottiswoode 5,333 3,973 robert Walmsley 6,720 5,337 British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 31 summary remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 march 2007 Any ordinary shares required to fulfil option under options schemes may be provided by the British Energy Employee share trust BEEst.
As beneficiaries under the BEEst the Directors are deemed to be interested in shares held by the BEEst which at 31 March 2007 amounted to 714,012 ordinary shares and 912,872 warrants.
stephen Billingham received a grant under the Lt plan over 54,532 shares during the year.
Bill Coley received an option grant over 275,000 shares during the year.
the market price of ordinary shares in the British Energy group plc at 30 March 2007 was 487.25p and the range of closing prices in the year was 753.5p to 390p.
performance total shareholder return source: Datastream 250 200 150 100 50 British Energy Group plc FTSE All-Share Index 0 17 Jan 2005 31 Mar 2005 31 Mar 2006 31 Mar 2007 the graph above shows the value at 31 March 2007 of 100 invested in the shares of British Energy group plc on 17 January 2005, the first day of trading in British Energy group plc shares compared with the value of 100 invested in the FtsE Allshare index.
the other points plotted are the values at 31 March 2005 and 2006.
Approved on behalf of the Board on 30 May 2007.
Bob Davies Chairman, remuneration Committee British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 32 summary Financial statement for the year ended 31 march 2007 Introduction Corporate Governance the Directors present the summary financial statement for British Energy seeks to apply best practice in corporate the year ended 31 March 2007. the comparative period is governance.
the Directors consider that during the year, for the year ended 31 March 2006. the Company complied with the requirements of section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate governance issued the summary financial statement is only a summary of the by the Financial reporting Council incorporating the information in the Companys Annual report and Accounts, the principles of good governance and code of best practice Directors report and the remuneration Committee report for the Combined Code.
the year ended 31 March 2007. this summary information does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding the Directors full Corporate governance statement is set out of the results of the group and state of affairs of the Company on pages 26 to 32 of the full Annual report and Accounts.
or the group and their policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration.
For further information the full Annual Summary Directors Report report and Accounts, independent Auditors report on those the Directors present the Annual review and summary accounts and the Directors report should be consulted.
financial statement for the year ended 31 March 2007. the independent Auditors report on the full Annual report and Principal Activities and Review of Business Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007 was unqualified the groups principal activities are the generation and sale and did not include a statement under sections 237 2 of electricity.
A review of the groups activities is set out on inadequate accounting records or returns not agreeing with the inside front cover and pages 2 to 13 and 16 to 26. records or returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
Results the consolidated results for the group are set out in the Copies of the full Annual report and Accounts for the year summary consolidated income statement on page 34. ended 31 March 2007 may be obtained, free of charge, on request from the Companys registrars whose address appears on the inside back cover.
shareholders may also elect in writing to receive the full Annual report and Accounts in place of the summary financial statement for all future years.
the Annual report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007 is also available on the Companys website.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 33 independent Auditors statement to the Members of British Energy group plc We have examined the summary financial statement of British Basis of opinion Energy group plc which comprise the summary consolidated We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, income statement, the summary consolidated balance sheet, the auditors statement on the summary financial statement the summary consolidated statement of cash flows and the issued by the Auditing practices Board.
our report on the summary remuneration Committee report.
Companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and the remuneration Committee report.
the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review for the year ended 31 March 2007 in accordance with united Opinion Kingdom law.
in our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Directors our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the report and the remuneration Committee report of British consistency of the summary financial statement within the Energy group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and Annual review with the full annual financial statements, complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 the Directors report and the remuneration Committee of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements thereunder.
of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material  LLP inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Chartered accountants and registered auditors Edinburgh this statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance 30 May 2007 with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other notes: purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume a the maintenance and integrity of the British Energy group plc website responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that in writing.
may have occurred to the full annual financial statements or the summary financial statement since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 34 summary Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 march 2007 Year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Revenue 2,999 2,593 operating and energy costs 1,778 1,747 1,221 846 other operating income 93 95 Cash sweep payment 305 105 Depreciation 207 191 Amortisation and other charges 6 28 unrealised net losses gains on derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts 2 18 Operating profit 794 635 Financing charges credits interest payable 61 50 interest receivable 53 26 other finance income expenses 10 12 Profit before taxation 796 599 taxation 331 169 Net profit for the year attributable to shareholders 465 430 Earnings per share pence : Basic 81.5 75.9 Diluted 79.9 73.8 British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 35 summary Consolidated Balance sheet as at 31 march 2007 2007 2006 m m non-current assets 7,542 7,394 Current assets 2,424 1,856 Current liabilities 1,137 1,046 non-current liabilities 6,182 6,103 Net assets 2,647 2,101 Total shareholders equity including non-equity shareholders interests 2,647 2,101 summary Consolidated statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 march 2007 Year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m net cash inflow generated from operations 751 664 net cash used in investing activities 235 220 net cash used in financing activities 53 41 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 463 403 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 638 235 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,101 638 the summary financial statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Bill Coley Stephen Billingham Chief executive finance Director British EnErgy group plc Annual review 2006 07 36 glossary AGR Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactor Non Outage Defect Inventory the second generation of gas-cooled nuclear reactor built in total of outstanding plant defects which are work requests the uK.
that have been partially assessed by maintenance, or are still awaiting action.
Outage Planned and Unplanned the periodic shutdown of a reactor including for maintenance, BSUoS inspection and testing or for refuelling is known as a planned Balancing services use of system.
some planned outages are known as statutory outages and are required by the conditions of the nuclear site Contribution Agreement licence.
unscheduled shutdown of a reactor is known as an the agreement dated 14 January 2005 and now between the unplanned outage.
secretary of state, nLF, British Energy generation Limited, British Energy group plc and British Energy holdings plc as PWR Pressurised Water Reactor amended from time to time.
the most recent type of nuclear reactor to be constructed in the uK which uses pressurised water as both the coolant and DUoS the moderator.
Realised Price Energy Supply Costs Calculated by dividing revenue from generated electricity by Mainly comprise the costs incurred for the use of the total output for the period.
distribution and transmission systems, recovered through revenue, and costs of renewable obligation Certificates roCs.
Restructuring the restructuring of the group completed on 14 January 2005.
GW Gigawatt : GWh Gigawatt-hour one gigawatt equals 1,000MW: one gigawatt-hour represents RED one hour of electricity consumed at a constant rate of 1gW.
the restructuring Effective Date, 14 January 2005.
Investment in Plant Revalorisation investment expenditure on plant projects, major repairs and revalorisation arises because nuclear liabilities are stated in strategic spares across the whole group, and incremental the balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at 3% costs associated with the performance improvement per annum from the eventual payment dates.
the programme including associated staff costs.
revalorisation charge is the adjustment that results from restating these liabilities to take into account the effect of kW Kilowatt : kWh Kilowatt-hour inflation in the year and to remove the effect of one years A kilowatt is a unit of power, representing the rate at which discount as the eventual dates of payment become one year energy is used or produced: one kilowatt-hour is a unit of closer.
revalorisation charges arise in respect of the fixed energy and represents one hour of electricity consumption decommissioning obligation to reflect the unwinding of the at a constant rate of 1kW.
A revalorisation credit arises in respect of movements in the value of nuclear liabilities and Load Factor the nLF receivable to take account of the underlying the electricity produced by a power station expressed as movement in nuclear liabilities.
a percentage of the electricity it could have produced if operating at its reference energy generation over a fixed TNUoS time period, usually one year.
Lost Time Accident LTA TW Terawatt : TWh Terawatt-hour An incident which causes one or more days off work one terawatt equals 1,000gW: one terawatt-hour represents consecutive or not after, but not including, the day of an one hour of electricity consumption at a constant rate of 1tW.
Unit Operating Costs Market Price Calculated by dividing the operating costs of generated the price for annual forward baseload contracts.
electricity plus depreciation and software amortisation by total output for the period.
Materiel Condition A term used by some nuclear operators to describe the Unplanned Capability Loss Factor UCLF physical condition of plant and equipment.
unplanned capability loss factor is defined as the ratio of the unplanned energy losses during a given period of time, to the MW Megawatt : MWh Megawatt-hour reference energy generation, expressed as a percentage.
one megawatt equals 1,000kW: one megawatt-hour represents one hour of electricity consumption at a constant Warrants rate of 1MW.
NLF An independently administered fund into which the group makes contributions to cover all qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities including costs of decommissioning nuclear power stations and pWr back end fuel costs.
Shareholder Information Shareholder Analysis as at 31 March 2007 Ordinary Shares 0.10 No.
com Bill Coley Chief Executive Stephen Billingham Finance Director Share Dealing Service Pascal Colombani Shareview Dealing is a telephone and internet service from Bob Davies Lloyds TSB Registrars which offers a simple and convenient John Delucca way to buy or sell British Energy shares.
Further details may Ian Harley be obtained at www.
co. uk dealing or by telephone David Pryde on 0870 850 0852.
A postal dealing service is also available.
Clare Spottiswoode Sir Robert Walmsley Charges as at May 2007 are: Non-Executive Directors Certificated Internet 0.5% min.
15.00 Company Secretary Telephone 1% up to 50,000 min 25.00 Robert Armour Nominee Registered Office Internet 0.5% min.
12.50 Systems House Telephone 0.5% up to 50,000 min 17.50 Alba Campus Livingston EH54 7EG Share Price Information British Energys share price is broadcast on BBC1 Ceefax, Registered Number page 221, and on Channel 4 Teletext, page 521.
It also SC 270184 appears in the financial columns of the national press and on the Companys website.
Auditors  LLP CREST Erskine House In conjunction with its Registrars, British Energy has 68-73 Queen Street established arrangements to offer a special CREST service Edinburgh EH2 4NH for British Energy shareholders, which will allow them to hold shares through CREST while still receiving Company Registrars information.
Further details about this nominee service can Lloyds TSB Registrars be obtained from the Registrars.
The Causeway Worthing Taxation Information West Sussex BN99 6DA For former British Energy plc shareholders who elected to Tel: 0870 600 3994 receive British Energy Group plc Shares and Warrants on Restructuring in January 2005 the relevant base cost of Shareholder Enquiries these Shares and Warrants for capital gains purposes are Lloyds TSB Registrars are the Companys Registrars.
262.875p per Share and 172.375p per Warrant.
Their address and telephone number appear above.
Alternatively, shareholders can access their website Information with regard to the tax implications for former at www.
co. uk and can check their British Energy plc shareholders on Restructuring, including a registered holding at www.
co. uk sample capital gains calculation for tax year 2005 06, can be found on the Companys website www.
In the event of any such enquiries, such as the loss of a share certificate, or to notify a change of address, shareholders should write to the Companys Registrars at the above address.
Designed and produced by: Environmental: Emperor Design Consultants Ltd Printed on Mega Matt paper and board.
co. uk chlorine free pulp from sustainable forests and 50% recycled fibre.
