Notice of meeting Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 79 Notice of meeting The 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM of Intermediate Capital Group PLC the Company will be held at 20 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1DP on 18 July 2007 at 12.00 a. m. to consider the following resolutions all of which are fully described in the Directors report on pages 33 to 34.
Ordinary business Resolution 1 To receive the financial statements and reports of the Directors and auditors for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Resolution 2 To approve the Report of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Resolution 3 To declare a final divided of 41.5 pence per share.
Resolution 4 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM.
Resolution 5 To authorise the Directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 6 To elect as Directors: a Philip Keller b Jean-Daniel Camus Resolution 7 To re-elect as Directors: a Thomas Bartlam b Francois fide Mitry c James Nelson d Paul Piper Special business Resolutions 8 and 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 9, 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Resolution 8 Directors authority to allot shares To authorise the Directors, for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all powers to allot relevant securities as defined in the Act up to a maximum nominal amount of 4,682,864.
This authority shall expire on the date of the AGM in 2008 unless it is cancelled or amended and the Company may agree before this authority ends to allot any of the relevant securities, even though the allotment may be carried out after this authority ends.
All previous authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
Resolution 9 Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights That subject to Resolution 8 being passed by the Meeting the Directors be empowered subject to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 to section 94 3A of the Act wholly for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 9 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: a in connection with a rights issue: and b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 702,430.
80 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 10 authority to make market purchases of the Company's shares To authorise the Company generally and unconditionally to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of the Companys ordinary shares on such terms as the Directors see fit subject to the following conditions: the maximum aggregate number of shares which may be purchased is 10,529,420 shares: the minimum price which may be paid for each share is 5 pence: the maximum price which may be paid for each share is an amount not more than 5 per cent above the average middle market quotations of the Companys shares, as based on the Daily Official List published by the London Stock Exchange plc, for the five business days prior to the date the purchase is made: and this authority shall expire at the close of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2008, save that the Company may agree, before the expiry of this authority, to buy back shares even though the purchases may be completed after this authorisation ends.
Resolution 11 amendments to the Companys Articles of Association That the amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company in the form produced to the Meeting and, for the purpose of identification, initialled by the Chairman and as described in the Directors Report on page 34 be approved.
By order of the Board C Reilly Company Secretary 12 June 2007 Notes: i You may appoint one or more proxies of your own choice if you are unable to attend the meeting but would like to vote on a poll.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If no name is entered on the form of proxy, the return of the form of proxy duly signed will appoint the Chairman of the meeting to act as your proxy.
The completion and return of a form of proxy will not, however, preclude shareholders from attending and voting in person at the meeting or at any adjournment thereof, should they wish to do so.
ii In the case of a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney.
iii The form of proxy together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed, or a certified copy of that power or authority must be received by Computershare Investor Services Registrars not later than 12.00 a. m. on 16 July 2007 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the adjourned meeting.
iv If two or more persons are jointly entitled to a share conferring the right to vote, any one of them may vote at the meeting either in person or by proxy, but if more than one joint holder is present at the meeting either in person or by proxy, the one whose name stands first in the register of members in respect of the joint holding shall alone be entitled to vote in respect thereof.
In any event, the names of all joint holders should be stated on the form of proxy.
v If the form of proxy is returned without any indication as to how the person s appointed shall vote on the resolution, such person s will exercise his her their discretion as to how to vote or whether to abstain from voting.
vi Unless instructed otherwise, the proxy may also vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit on any other business which may properly come from the meeting including amendments to the resolutions.
vii Only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 5.00 p. m. on 16 July 2007 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the above mentioned meeting in respect of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 5.00 p. m. on 16 July 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
viii The register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, together with copies of Directors service contracts and copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, 20 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1DP during normal business hours, Monday to Friday Bank holidays excepted, until the close of the Annual General Meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least fifteen minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 81 Our Nordic and Spanish teams 82 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts
