60 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Registrar of Companies on 19 July 2007.
This resulted in a transfer The consolidated Group and Parent Company financial statements from share capital to distributable reserves see note 27.
These of IPF plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting principles of reverse acquisition accounting as set out in IFRS 3 Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act Business Combinations.
The following summarises the accounting 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
principles that have been applied in preparing the accounts on a reverse acquisition basis: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures the assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiaries the international have been adopted during 2007.
This has resulted in the inclusion businesses are recognised and measured in the consolidated of additional disclosures in respect of financial instruments.
financial statements at the pre-demerger carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value: The following interpretations were adopted in 2007 with no impact the retained earnings and other equity balances recognised in the on the financial statements: consolidated financial statements reflect the retained earnings and IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 Financial other equity balances of the international businesses immediately reporting in hyper-inflationary economies before the demerger, and the result of the period from 1 January 2006 to the date of demerger is that of the international businesses IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives as IPF plc did not trade prior to the demerger: The following standards and interpretations, which were in issue share capital at 31 December 2006 represents that of the holding but not yet effective, have not been early adopted by the Group: company of the international businesses pre-demerger.
Share capital at 31 December 2007 represents that of the legal parent, IFRS 8 Operating Segments IPF plc: the difference between the share capital of IPF plc and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements the share capital of the pre-demerger holding company of the international businesses has been debited to the other reserve IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes see note 27 : IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial Funding Requirements and their Interaction statements are the consolidated numbers of the international businesses for the year ended 31 December 2006.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IPF plc had no significant assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs of its own at the date the demerger took effect and no cash IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements consideration was paid in respect of the acquisition of the international businesses by IPF plc.
Amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation Unaudited pro forma income statements and earnings per share and a pro forma balance sheet have been presented in notes 32 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting conditions to 34 to the financial statements in order to present a consolidated and cancellations position as if the Group had existed as a standalone entity in its The standards and interpretations listed above are not expected current form.
This includes the restatement of share capital and to have a material impact on the financial statements.
reserves on a pro forma basis and the inclusion of certain costs now incurred by the Group which were historically not recharged Demerger to the international businesses by Provident Financial plc.
Further International Personal Finance plc formerly Bridgesun 3 Limited information in respect of these adjustments is included in notes 32 was incorporated on 5 December 2006.
The pro forma adjustments are consistent with those items was re-registered as a public limited company and changed its name specified in the demerger prospectus.
Full details of the demerger to International Personal Finance plc IPF plc.
On 16 July 2007 the are given in the prospectus which can be found on the Companys international home credit businesses of Provident Financial plc the website www.
international businesses were demerged, effected by a dividend in specie.
IPF plc acquired the international businesses by issuing Accounting convention one IPF plc share to the shareholders of Provident Financial plc for The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under each Provident Financial plc share held by them.
On the same day the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of the shares of IPF plc were admitted to trading on the main market derivative financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting of the London Stock Exchange.
On 18 July 2007 the court approved policies, which have been applied consistently throughout 2007 and a reduction of the share capital and this was registered by the 2006, are set out below.
co. uk ar07 financials International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 61 Consolidation Share-based payments These consolidated financial statements include the financial results The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control exists charged to the income statement over the vesting period of where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating the award.
The corresponding credit is made to profit and loss policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, companies are 100% owned by IPF plc Group companies.
A list of determined using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
the principal subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements is included within note 12.
Exceptional items The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items that Finance costs are one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying performance Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings and of the Group.
are recognised on an Effective Interest Rate EIR basis.
Financial instruments Segment reporting Amounts receivable from customers The Groups primary reporting format is geographical segments.
All customer receivables are initially recognised at the amount A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are and returns that are different from those of components operating subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is in other economic environments.
the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the The provision of home credit is the only business segment EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer receivables operated by the Group and therefore a secondary segmental are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39. analysis is not provided.
All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
Revenue Customer accounts that are in arrears those that have missed any Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions, portion of a contractual payment are deemed to have demonstrated comprises revenue service charge earned on amounts receivable evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
Revenue on customer receivables is calculated Impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use using an effective interest rate EIR.
The EIR is calculated using historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount estimated cash flows being contractual payments adjusted for the and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage.
These impact of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated estimated future cash flows are discounted to a present value using impact of customers paying late or not paying at all.
the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
All such impairments are charged to the income statement.
Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the EIR.
Interest income continues to be accrued on The unwinding of the discounted value used to compute the impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the loans impairment is reflected in the interest charged on the impaired carrying value.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables are charged to the income statement.
The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is considered further below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and Leases short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating leases.
These are principally held for the purpose of meeting intraCosts in respect of operating leases are charged to the income Group arrangements.
Cash also includes those balances held by statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with Operating costs cash balances.
Operating costs include agent commission, marketing costs and Derivative financial instruments foreign exchange gains and losses.
All other costs are included The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest in administrative expenses.
rate swaps and forward currency contracts to manage the interest rate and currency risk arising from the Groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
62 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Accounting policies continued All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the Groups derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds the transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
The Group also uses some foreign currency contracts which do not qualify for hedge accounting as they do not hedge a specific Property, plant and equipment future transaction.
These contracts are used to reduce the impact Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent of exchange rate fluctuations on the reported results.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus are initially recognised at the fair value on the date a derivative any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at each items.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
reporting date at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are immediately within the income statement.
the principal bases used: For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and Category Depreciation rate Method where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line of changes in the fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss Equipment including relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the computer hardware 20 to 33.3% Straight-line income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value to be, highly effective as a hedge: may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Borrowings Share capital Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are a nominal value of 10p per share, are classified as equity.
subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is Foreign currency translation recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups borrowings using the EIR.
Borrowings are classified as current subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance currency.
The Group financial information is presented in sterling.
Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional Intangible assets currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of Intangible assets comprise computer software licences and the transaction.
Computer software licences are Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the costs incurred are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates to acquire or develop the specific software and bring it into use.
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges five years.
The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by or qualifying net investment hedges.
management at each balance sheet date.
The income statements of the Group subsidiaries none of which The banking licence is not subject to amortisation as it is deemed has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a to have an indefinite useful life as it will be used to allow the Group functional currency different from sterling are translated into to issue credit to customers in Russia.
It is tested for impairment sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are at each balance sheet date.
translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation Investments in subsidiaries of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings Investment in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is equal and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the asset.
investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or www.
co. uk ar07 financials International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 63 such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement Defined contribution plans as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Key assumptions and estimates Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of Amounts receivable from customers income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and receivables and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group makes judgements to Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows.
and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities using actuarial models which use historical payment performance in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the from each arrears stage.
The impairment models are regularly balance sheet liability method.
reviewed to take account of the current economic environment, Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on product mix and recent customer payment performance.
However, investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal on the basis that the payment performance of customers could of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
flows, a material adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable the net present value of estimated cash flows differs by 5%, that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary it is estimated that the amounts receivable from customers differences can be utilised.
balance would be 22.2m higher lower.
Employee benefits Retirement benefit asset Defined benefit pension plan A number of judgements and estimates are made in assessing The charge credit in the income statement in respect of the defined the amount of the retirement benefit asset at each balance sheet benefit pension plan comprises the actuarially assessed current date.
These judgements and estimates are derived after taking into service cost of working employees together with the interest charge account the requirements of IAS 19 Retirement Benefit Obligations on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme and after taking the advice of the Groups actuaries.
All charges credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
on the key assumptions used are set out in note 24.
The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect Tax of the defined benefit pension plan is the fair value of the plans The Group is subject to tax in a number of international jurisdictions assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the unusual features of home at the balance sheet date.
credit, the tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation has been subject to a tax audit.
In some The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent instances, this can be some years after the item has first been actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value reflected in the financial statements.
The Group recognises liabilities of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality of whether such liabilities are likely to fall due.
If the outcome of such corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the audits is that the final liability is different to the amount originally terms of the related pension liability.
estimated, such differences will be recognised in the period in Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience which the audit or enquiry is determined.
Any differences may adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
held in the balance sheet.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
