Limited Investec Limited Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa Reg.
1925 002833 06 Share Code: INL ISIN: ZAE000040531 Notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited will be held at 15:00 South African time on Wednesday, 8 August 2007, at the registered office of Investec Limited at 100 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, to transact the following business: Common Business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc and Investec Limited: 1.
To re-elect Samuel Ellis Abrahams as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect George Francis Onslow Alford as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Glynn Robert Burger as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Hugh Sidney Herman as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Donn Edward Jowell as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Ian Robert Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Alan Tapnack as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Fani Titi as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
For brief biographical details of the directors to be re-elected, please refer to the Annual Report of Investec plc Investec Limited.
Investec plc and Investec Limited adopted a policy, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, of requiring all directors who have served on the board for nine years or more, to seek re-election on an annual basis which practice is to be entrenched in the Articles of Association of both Investec plc and Investec Limited as envisaged in Special Resolution No.
Ordinary Business: Investec Limited To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec Limited: 10.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2007, together with the reports of the directors of Investec Limited and of the auditors of Investec Limited.
To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the directors of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2007.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2006.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the dividend access South African resident SA DAS redeemable preference share for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2006.
