Related party transactions continued The group have provided Rensburg Sheppards plc with a 60 million subordinated loan facility, which was entered into on 6 May 2005.
The loan formed part of the consideration paid by Rensburg Sheppards plc for the acquisition of Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite Limited on that date.
"Post balance sheet events 40.1 Acquisition of Kensington Group plc On 30 May 2007, the combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited ""Investec"" and the board of Kensington Group plc ""Kensington"" announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended acquisition of the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Kensington by Investec ""the Offer""."
"It is intended that the Offer be implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act of United Kingdom ""The Scheme""."
Under the terms of the Offer, each Kensington shareholder will receive 0.7 Investec plc share plus a special dividend of 26 pence payable by Kensington for each Kensington Share, valuing each Kensington Share at 519.5 pence per share based on an Investec plc share price of 705 pence per share on 29 May 2007, being the last business day prior to the announcement, and the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Kensington at approximately 283 million.
The new Investec plc shares will not qualify for the proposed Investec final dividend of 13p per share for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Offer is conditional on the approval of the Scheme by Kensington's shareholders and the sanction of the Court for a capital reduction.
The acquisition is also subject to regulatory approvals.
40.2 Disposal of the Property Fund Management and Property Administration Business of Investec Property Group Limited Investec Property Group Limited IPG has agreed to dispose of its property fund management business and its property administration business, collectively the Property Services businesses as a going concern to Growthpoint Properties Limited Growthpoint the proposed transaction.
223 IPG is a wholly owned subsidiary of Investec Limited Investec and its operations include property development, property fund management, property administration and listed property investment management.
The property development and listed property investment management businesses will not form part of the proposed transaction.
The effective date of the proposed transaction, which is subject to the suspensive conditions set out below, is 1 July 2007.
Growthpoint has agreed to acquire IPG's interest in the Property Services businesses, for a purchase consideration of R1 393 649 600 one billion three hundred and ninety three million and six hundred and forty nine thousand six hundred rand, the purchase consideration.
The purchase consideration will be settled through the issue of 87 103 100 new Growthpoint linked units at a price of 1600 cents per linked unit, ex distribution for the 6 month period ending 30 June 2007.
The proposed transaction is subject, inter alia, to the fulfillment of the following suspensive conditions: The signing of binding legal agreements between IPG, Investec Limited, Growthpoint and Growthpoint's BEE partners Granting of all regulatory approvals as may be required from various authorities including the Competition Authorities Growthpoint obtaining approval for the proposed transaction from the requisite majority of its linked unitholders in a general meeting.
Hedges The group uses derivatives for the management of financial risks relating to its asset and liability portfolios, mainly associated with nontrading interest rate risks and exposures to foreign currency risk.
Most non-trading interest rate risk is transferred from the originating business to the central Treasury in the Capital Markets business.
Once aggregated and netted, Treasury, as the sole interface to the wholesale market for cash and derivative transactions, actively manages the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk from our asset and liability portfolios.
In this regard, Treasury is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and nontrading interest rate risk within defined parameters.
The accounting treatment of accounting hedges is dependant on the classification between fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and in particular, accounting hedges require the identification of a direct relationship between a hedged item and hedging instrument.
This relationship is established in limited circumstances based on the manner in which the group manages its risk exposure.
Below is a description of each category of accounting hedge achieved by the group: Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are entered into mainly to hedge the exposure of changes in fair value of fixed rate financial instruments attributable to interest rates.
Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited
