Statement of Accounting Policies of The BSS Group PLC Group Accounts Basis of Preparation In preparing the financial statements set out on the previous pages, These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Group has complied with the UK Listing Authority requirements International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC and has presented a comparative balance sheet at 31 March 2006. interpretations in issue and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of The BSS Group The following interpretations to existing standards have been PLC and all its subsidiaries at 31 March 2007.
The purchase method published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of the subsidiaries beginning on or after 1 April 2007 or later periods but which the by the Group.
Subsidiary trading results are fully consolidated Group has not early adopted: from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital Revenue recognition disclosures, were early adopted in 2006.
IFRS 7 introduces new Revenue represents the value of goods sold arising in the United disclosures relating to financial instruments.
This standard does not Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland excluding intra-group sales have any impact on the classification and valuation of the Groups and value added tax.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and financial instruments.
rewards of ownership of the goods has been transferred to the customer.
The risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment, deemed to have been transferred when the goods are despatched effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006. to, or picked up by, the customer.
IFRIC 10 prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in Functional currency financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance With the exception of BSS Ireland Limited, who conduct business in sheet date.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 April 2007 the Republic of Ireland, the principal place of operation is the United but it is not expected to have any impact on the Groups accounts.
Consequently the financial statements are presented in GBP pounds sterling.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
Foreign currency translation IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share based transactions The net assets of BSS Ireland Limited are translated at the closing involving treasury shares or involving group entities for instance, rate at the balance sheet date and its income and expenses at the options over a parents shares should be accounted for as average rate for the year.
Differences arising from these translations equity settled or cash settled share based payment transactions.
are recognised as a separate component of equity in the consolidated The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 April 2007 but it is not financial statements.
expected to have any impact on the Groups accounts.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities A summary of the principal Group accounting policies are set out below The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its and in the notes to the financial statements.
These policies have been exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from consistently applied to all periods presented unless otherwise stated.
The following exemptions as set out in IFRS1 First Time Adoption Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of International Financial Reporting Standards were adopted in the of the derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the comparative periods: Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest and exchange rates and a Business combinations no retrospective application of IFRS 3 the current credit-worthiness of the counterparties.
Business Combinations to business combinations that occurred prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash b Share based payments IFRS 2 has been applied only to share flows, are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is based payments made after 7 November 2002 and any cash settled recognised immediately in the income statement.
transactions not vested by 1 January 2005.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a c Foreign exchange differences cumulative foreign exchange hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value differences included in equity, under previous consolidations, have attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in been set to zero at transition.
d Financial instruments the exemption not to restate comparatives For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or for IAS 32 and IAS 39 has been taken.
Under this option financial losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income instruments are accounted for under UK GAAP at the date of statement as they arise.
In addition, the Group has chosen not to adopt early either IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation or IAS 39 The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for accounting periods beginning before 1 April 2005.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain items as required by IFRS.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 34 Leases Employee benefit costs Assets acquired under finance leases are included in property, plant a Pension Schemes and equipment.
Depreciation is provided at rates designed to write-off Group companies operate various pension schemes.
Contributions the cost in equal annual amounts over the shorter of the estimated to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged in useful lives of the assets and the period of the leases.
Operating lease accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as to spread payments are charged to the income statement as incurred.
the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of scheme members.
As permitted under IAS 19 revised, actuarial surpluses Property, plant and equipment and deficits are recognised immediately in the statement of Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less depreciation recognised income and expense.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to allocate the cost less residual value over the estimated useful life of Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the asset and is provided at the following rates: the income statement as incurred.
Freehold land Nil b Share based compensation Freehold properties and long leasehold Lesser of 2% of cost The Group operates various equity settled share option schemes.
The or over the lease term value of the employee services is determined by reference to the fair Short leasehold properties value of the options granted using the Black Scholes valuation model.
tenants improvements 10% of cost This value is then expensed in the income statement in the period Plant, vehicles and other equipment 10% to 35% of cost between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted expected to be exercised.
Any net proceeds are credited to equity when if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs Inventories Borrowing costs specifically and directly attributable to the acquisition Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after or construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of adjusting for impairment for obsolete and slow moving items and are time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost calculated on a first in first out basis.
of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Costs comprise direct materials and where appropriate a proportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and discounts.
Net realisable Intangible assets value is the estimated selling price less further costs expected to be a Goodwill incurred to completion and disposal.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the Trade receivables acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of Trade receivables are recognised at the value of the sale of goods or acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary services on the date of the transaction.
Subsequently trade receivables acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
are reduced when objective evidence exists that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less of the receivables.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation Taxation of the goodwill is made to the lowest level of cash generating units or The current taxation charge in the income statement is based on the group of cash generating units which are monitored by management profit for the year as adjusted for disallowable and not taxable items and benefit from the acquisition on which the goodwill arose.
using current rates and takes into account tax deferred because of the timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying and accounting purposes.
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold not previously written off to reserves.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and b Computer software liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that and unique software products that will probably generate economic are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is benefits for the Group beyond 1 year, are recognised as intangible realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets and acquired computer software licences are amortised over their Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is estimated useful lives 3 to 5 years and is provided at between probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 20 and 33% of cost.
temporary differences can be utilised.
c Acquired assets Significant and Exceptional Items Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired Items that are both material and non-recurring and whose significance business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure and identification within the can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are financial statements are referred to as exceptional items and disclosed amortised to the income statement over the useful life of the assets within their relevant consolidated income statement category.
All acquired intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 35 Statement of Accounting Policies of The BSS Group PLC Group Accounts continued Critical Accounting Estimates Pension liabilities The preparation of the financial statements in compliance with The Group operates various defined benefit pension schemes, all IFRS require management to make estimates and assumptions that of which are closed to new members.
These are accounted for using affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate the value financial statements and revenue and expenses during the period.
of liabilities and amount of costs to be included in the financial Management evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis using statements.
The actuarial assumptions include discount rates, historical experience, consultation with experts and other assumptions assumed rate of return, future salary and pension increases and that it believes reasonable.
The Audit Committee have been party employee turnover rates.
While management believe that the to discussions about the development, selection and disclosure of actuarial assumptions are suitable, any significant change to the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and about those would affect the balance sheet and income statement.
The Groups most sensitive estimates are discussed below: Property leases Inventories The Group holds a number of leases on properties which are no As required by financial reporting standards, the Group continually longer used for trading.
The Group has recently been successful in evaluates its stockholding to ensure that it is carried at the lower of sub-letting a number of properties but despite all efforts this is cost or net realisable value.
Provisions are made against damaged, sometimes not possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, a slow moving and obsolete inventories.
As damaged inventories are provision is recognised in the accounts as the difference between identified their value is written down through each Divisions inventory the amounts contractually owed to the landlord and the amount counting procedure.
Slow moving and obsolete inventories are assessed contractually receivable if any from the tenant for the period up by each Division during standard reporting procedures and again until the lease is judged to be no longer onerous.
Estimates are based by Group management for statutory reporting.
Obsolescence is on the current condition of the UK property market and advice from considered by comparing future sales with current levels of inventory external advisors and management believe that they are appropriate.
External factors will also influence this estimate as new It may be possible that a lease takes longer than anticipated to dispose legislation, trends, or manufacturers withdrawing product lines of resulting in an understatement of the provision.
If this is the case, might render certain inventories obsolete ahead of any reasonable management do not believe it likely to be material.
The extent to which these external factors influence the profitability of inventory will determine the significance of any provision variance.
As at 31 March 2007 the Group had inventory provision of 8.3m 2006: 6.1m.
Allowance for doubtful debts The Group makes provisions for debts that management estimates may become impaired.
Each Division makes monthly assessments on the recoverability of all its accounts based on external factors such as the credit-worthiness of the customer, prevailing market conditions and the age of the receivable.
A detailed formal review is undertaken at half and full year to ensure that all provision balances are fair and accurate.
If the Group has been cautious in assessing the financial conditions of the customer and its ability to pay, then amounts that have been provided for may subsequently be recovered.
Likewise if the Group has been optimistic then amounts expected to be recovered and therefore not provided for may subsequently be deemed irrecoverable.
As at 31 March 2007 the Group had a provision for doubtful debts of 5.2m 2006: 3.8m.
Long-lived assets Management review long-lived assets for impairment on an annual basis.
Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the assets residual value, if any.
In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available.
Management use internal discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value.
Management derive the required cash flow estimates from historical experience and internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 36
