Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group PLC Company Accounts Basis of Accounting The accounts have been prepared under UK GAAP using the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
The accounting policies adopted in these accounts are consistent with those used in previous years, except where new standards have been adopted.
Deferred Tax Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset arose as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance sheet date and gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future with the following exception: Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Pension Schemes Contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged in accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as to spread the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of scheme members.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service lives of scheme members.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Leases and Hire Purchase Contracts Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on the straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are included in fixed assets at their fair value at the inception of the lease.
Finance charges are amortised over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance of the lease obligation.
Borrowings Borrowings are carried at their issue proceeds net of finance costs, less amounts repaid.
Finance costs are allocated over the term of the borrowings.
Share based benefits The Group operates various share option schemes.
The value of the employee services is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted using the Black Scholes valuation model.
This value is then expensed in the profit and loss account in the period between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options expected to be exercised.
Any net proceeds are credited to equity when the options are exercised.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Company also enters into derivative financial instrument and hedging activities for which the policy is the same as the Group as set out on page 34.
Cash flow statement The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement as its cash flows are included in the Group Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 60
