ACCOUNTING POLICIES undertakings are consolidated as from not control, generally accompanying a Basis of preparation the effective date of acquisition or to shareholding of between 20% and The consolidated financial statements the effective date of disposal.
Investments of the Group have been prepared in in associates are accounted for by the accordance with International Financial equity method of accounting and are Reporting Standards as adopted by the Subsidiaries initially recognised at cost.
European Union IFRSs as adopted by Subsidiaries are all entities over which the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the the Group has the power to govern the The Groups investment in associates Companies Act 1985 applicable to financial and operating policies so as to includes goodwill net of any Companies reporting under IFRS.
obtain economic benefits and generally accumulated impairment loss identified The consolidated financial statements accompany a shareholding of more on acquisition.
The Groups share of its have been prepared under the historical than one half of the voting rights.
associates post-acquisition profits or cost convention, as modified by the The existence and effect of potential losses are recognised in the income revaluation of available-for-sale voting rights that are currently statement, and its share of postinvestments and derivative financial exercisable or convertible are acquisition movements in reserves are instruments.
considered when assessing whether recognised in reserves.
The cumulative the Group controls another entity.
post-acquisition movements are Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from Standards, amendments and adjusted against the carrying amount of the date on which control is transferred interpretations effective in the investment.
They are fide-consolidated 2007 When the Groups share of losses in an from the date that control ceases.
"a IFRS 7, ""Financial instruments: associate equals or exceeds its interest Disclosures"", and the The Group uses the purchase method in the associate, including any other complementary amendment to of accounting to account for the unsecured receivables, the Group does IAS 1, ""Presentation of financial acquisition of subsidiaries."
"The cost of not recognise further losses, unless it statements - Capital disclosures"", an acquisition is measured as the fair has incurred obligations or made introduce new disclosures relating to value of the assets given, equity payments on behalf of the associate."
financial instruments and do not instruments issued and liabilities Unrealised gains on transactions have any impact on the classification incurred or assumed at the date of and valuation of the Group's between the Group and its associates exchange, plus costs directly financial instruments.
are eliminated to the extent of the attributable to the acquisition.
Groups interest in the associates.
"Identifiable assets acquired and b IFRIC 8, ""Scope of IFRS 2"", requires Unrealised losses are also eliminated liabilities and contingent liabilities consideration of transactions unless the transaction provides evidence assumed in a business combination are involving the issuance of equity of an impairment of the asset measured initially at their fair values at instruments, where the identifiable transferred."
Accounting policies of the acquisition date, irrespective of the consideration received is less than associates have been changed where extent of any minority interest.
the fair value of the equity necessary to ensure consistency with The excess of the cost of acquisition instruments issued in order to the policies adopted by the Group.
over the fair value of the Groups share establish whether or not they fall of the identifiable net assets acquired is within the scope of IFRS 2.
Segment reporting recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of This standard does not have any A business segment is a group of assets acquisition is less than the fair value of impact on the Group's financial the net assets of the subsidiary and operations engaged in providing statements.
"services that are subject to risks and acquired, the difference is recognised c IFRIC 10, ""Interim financial reporting directly in the income statement."
"returns that are different from those of and impairment"", prohibits the other business segments."
Inter-company transactions, balances impairment losses recognised in an and unrealised gains on transactions A geographical segment is engaged in interim period on goodwill and providing services within a particular between Group companies are investments in equity instruments eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also economic environment that are subject and in financial assets carried at cost to risks and returns that are different eliminated unless the transaction to be reversed at a subsequent provides evidence of an impairment of from those of segments operating in balance sheet date.
This standard the asset transferred.
does not have any impact on the policies of subsidiaries have been Group's financial statements.
changed where necessary to ensure Foreign currencies consistency with the policies adopted Basis of consolidation Functional and presentation by the Group.
currency The consolidated financial statements Items included in the financial comprise the accounts of the Company Associates statements of each of the Groups and its subsidiary undertakings.
Associates are all entities over which entities are measured using the The profits and losses of subsidiary the Group has significant influence but currency of the primary economic 48 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Group Financial Statements environment in which the entity On consolidation, exchange differences Intangible assets operates the functional currency.
arising from the translation of the net Computer software The consolidated financial statements investment in foreign entities, and of Acquired computer software licenses are presented in Sterling, which is the borrowings and other currency are capitalised on the basis of the costs Parent Companys functional and instruments designated as hedges of incurred to acquire and bring to use the presentation currency.
such investments, are taken to specific software.
These costs are shareholders equity.
When a foreign amortised over their estimated useful Transactions and balances operation is sold, such exchange lives.
Costs associated with developing Foreign currency transactions are differences are recognised in the or maintaining computer software translated into the functional currency income statement as part of the gain or programmes are recognised as an using the exchange rates prevailing at loss on sale.
Costs that are the dates of the transactions.
Foreign directly associated with the production Goodwill and fair value adjustments exchange gains and losses resulting of identifiable and unique software arising on the acquisition of a foreign from the settlement of such products controlled by the Group, and transactions and from the translation at entity are treated as assets and liabilities that will generate economic benefits of the foreign entity and translated at year-end exchange rates of monetary exceeding costs beyond one year, are assets and liabilities denominated in the closing rate.
Direct foreign currencies are recognised in the costs include the software development income statement, except when Goodwill arising on employee costs and an appropriate deferred in equity as qualifying cash consolidation portion of relevant overheads.
flow hedges and qualifying net Goodwill represents the excess of the Computer software development costs investment hedges.
Translation cost of an acquisition over the fair value recognised as assets are amortised over differences on non-monetary items, of the Groups share of the net their estimated useful lives not such as equities held at fair value identifiable assets of the acquired exceeding three years.
through profit or loss, are reported as subsidiary associate at the date of part of the fair value gain or loss.
Goodwill on acquisitions of Capitalised employment contract Translation differences on nonsubsidiaries is shown separately on the payments monetary items, such as equities Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions The Group makes payments to certain classified as available-for-sale financial of associates is included in investments key employees in recognition of them assets, are included in the fair value in associates.
signing a long-term employment reserve in equity.
contact, usually three to five years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions These payments are capitalised as Group companies completed prior to 1st January 1998 is intangible assets since legal rights The results and financial position of all written off directly to reserves.
protect the expected benefits that the the Group entities none of which has Following the adoption of IFRS this Group will derive from the contracts.
the currency of a hyperinflationary goodwill remains written off to reserves economy that have a functional and no adjustment would be made on The asset recognised is then amortised currency different from the presentation subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions over the duration of the underlying currency are translated into the completed on or after 1st January 1998 contract.
presentation currency as follows: and before 1st January 2004, goodwill Other is stated on the Balance Sheet at its i assets and liabilities for each balance For acquisitions completed after 1st previously amortised net book value.
sheet presented are translated at the January 2004 the business acquired is closing rate at the date of that For acquisitions completed on or after reviewed to identify assets that meet balance sheet: 1st January 2004, goodwill is tested the definition of an intangible asset per annually for impairment and carried at IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include ii income and expenses for each cost less accumulated impairment customer contracts and expectations of income statement are translated at losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal business renewal.
These assets are average exchange rates unless this of an entity include the carrying valued on the basis of the present value average is not a reasonable amount of goodwill relating to the approximation of the cumulative of future cash flows and are amortised entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to effect of the rates prevailing on the to the income statement over the life of cash generating units for the purpose transaction dates, in which case the contract or their estimated of impairment testing.
Cash generating income and expenses are translated economic life.
The current maximum at the dates of the transactions : units represent the lowest level of estimated economic life is ten years.
geographical and business segment and combinations that the Group uses for Impairment of assets iii all resulting exchange differences are internal reporting purposes.
recognised as a separate component Assets that have an indefinite useful life of equity.
are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 49 Group Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES that are subject to amortisation are loans and receivables comprise trade Group profit and loss account over the reviewed for impairment whenever and other receivables and cash and vesting periods of the award.
events or changes in circumstances cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
indicate that the carrying amount may Insurance broking debtors and not be recoverable.
An impairment loss Available-for-sale financial creditors is recognised for the amount by which assets Insurance brokers act as agents in the assets carrying amount exceeds its Available-for-sale financial assets are placing the insurable risks of their recoverable amount.
The recoverable categorised according to their nature clients with insurers and, as such, are amount is the higher of an assets fair into one of two categories: not liable as principals for amounts value less costs to sell and value in use.
1 Investments and deposits, which For the purposes of assessing In recognition of this relationship, consist mainly of Fixed Deposits, impairment, assets are grouped at the debtors from insurance broking Bonds and Commercial Paper - lowest levels for which there are transactions are not included as an these investments are held at fair separately identifiable cash flows cashasset of the Group.
Other than the value and are classified between generating units.
receivable for fees and commissions current and non-current assets earned on a transaction, no recognition according to maturity date.
Property, plant and equipment of the insurance transaction occurs until 2 Other investments, which include the Group receives cash in respect of Assets are stated at their net book securities and other investments value historical cost less accumulated premiums or claims, at which time a held for strategic purposes - these depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated corresponding liability is established in investments are held fair at value to write off the cost of such assets over favour of the insurer or the client.
In unless a fair value cannot be their estimated useful lives.
certain circumstances, the Group accurately determined in which advances premiums, refunds or claims case they are held at cost less any The principal rates of depreciation are to insurance underwriters or clients provision for impairment.
as follows: prior to collection.
These advances are Interest on deposits and interestFreehold land and buildings: - reflected in the consolidated balance bearing investments is credited as it is sheet as part of trade receivables.
Leasehold improvements: - between Regular purchases and sales of financial Trade receivables 10% and 20% per annum or over assets are recognised on the trade date Trade receivables are recognised initially the life of the lease.
- the date on which the group commits at fair value and subsequently at Furniture and office equipment: - to purchase or sell the asset.
amortised cost, less provision for between 10% and 20% per Investments are initially recognised at impairment.
fair value plus transaction costs.
of trade receivables is established when Financial assets are derecognised when there is objective evidence that the Computer hardware: - between the rights to receive cash flows have Group will not be able to collect all 20% and 100% per annum.
expired or have been transferred and amounts due according to the original Motor vehicles: - between 25% and the Group has transferred substantially terms of the receivables.
all risks and rewards of ownership.
financial difficulties of the debtor, Available-for-sale assets are dispute, default or delinquency in subsequently carried at fair value.
Financial assets payments are considered indicators that Loans and receivables are carried at The Group classifies its financial assets the receivable is impaired.
as loans and receivables and availableamount of the asset is reduced through for-sale investments.
The classification the use of an allowance account, and The fair values of quoted investments depends upon the purpose for which the amount of the loss is recognised in are determined based upon current bid the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the receivable is uncollectible, it is written Changes in the value of securities classification of its financial assets off against the allowance account for classified as available-for-sale are at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents Employee benefit trust Loans and receivables are nonCash and cash equivalents includes The Group operates a deferred derivative financial assets with fixed or cash in hand, deposits held at call with compensation scheme by way of a determinable payments that are not banks, other short-term highly liquid discretionary, employee benefit trust.
quoted in an active market.
They are investments with original maturities of Investments held by this scheme, which included in current assets, except for three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are principally represented by Unit maturities greater than 12 months after are shown within borrowings in current Trusts, are classified as fixed assets on the balance sheet date.
The Group's liabilities on the balance sheet.
the balance sheets and charged to the 50 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Group Financial Statements Deferred income tax is provided on A defined contribution plan is a Trade payables temporary differences arising on pension plan under which the Group Trade payables are initially recognised investments in subsidiaries and pays fixed contributions into a at fair value and subsequently associates, except where the Group separate entity.
The Group has no measured at amortised cost.
controls the timing of the reversal of legal or constructive obligations to pay the temporary difference and it is further contributions if the fund does Borrowings probable that the temporary not hold sufficient assets to pay all Borrowings are classified as current difference will not reverse in the employees the benefits relating to liabilities unless the Group has an foreseeable future.
employee service in the current and unconditional right to defer settlement prior periods.
of the liability for at least 12 months Employee benefits after the balance sheet date.
The costs of the Groups defined Pension costs contribution pension schemes are Borrowings are recognised initially at The Group operates a number of charged to the income statement in fair value, net of transaction costs defined benefit pension schemes, and the period in which they fall due.
incurred, they are subsequently stated a number of employees are members at amortised cost using the effective Share-based compensation of defined contribution pension interest rate method.
The Group operates a number of schemes.
equity-settled, share-based Deferred income tax A defined benefit plan is a pension compensation plans.
The fair value of The charge for taxation is based on plan that defines an amount of the employee services received in the result for the year at current rates pension benefit that an employee will exchange for the grant of the options of tax and takes into account deferred receive on retirement, usually is recognised as an expense.
dependent on one or more factors amount to be expensed over the such as age, years of service and vesting period is determined by Deferred income tax is provided in full, compensation.
reference to the fair value of the using the liability method, on options granted, excluding the impact temporary differences arising between Full actuarial valuations of the Groups of any non-market vesting conditions the tax bases of assets and liabilities main defined benefit schemes are for example, profitability and sales and their carrying amounts in the carried out at least every three years.
Non-market vesting consolidated financial statements.
A qualified actuary updates these conditions are included in assumptions However, if the deferred income tax valuations to 31st December each about the number of options that are arises from initial recognition of an year.
For the purposes of these annual expected to become exercisable.
At asset or liability in a transaction other updates, scheme assets are included at each balance sheet date, the entity than a business combination that at market value and scheme liabilities are revises its estimates of the number of the time of the transaction affects measured on an actuarial basis using options that are expected to become neither accounting nor taxable profit the projected unit method: these exercisable.
It recognises the impact of or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred liabilities are discounted at the current the revision of original estimates, if income tax is determined using tax rate of return of an AA corporate any, in the income statement, and a rates and laws that have been bond of equivalent currency and term.
corresponding adjustment to equity enacted or substantially enacted by The defined benefit surplus or deficit over the remaining vesting period.
the balance sheet date and are is included on the Groups balance expected to apply when the related sheet.
Surpluses are included only to The proceeds received net of any deferred income tax asset is realised or the extent that they are recoverable directly attributable transaction costs the deferred income tax liability is through reduced contributions in the are credited to share capital nominal settled.
future or through refunds from the value and share premium when the schemes.
The current service cost and options are exercised.
Deferred income tax is charged or any past service costs are included in credited to equity in respect of any the income statement within salaries Provisions for liabilities and items, which is itself either charged or and associated expenses and the charges credited directly to equity.
Any expected return on the schemes subsequent recognition of the A provision is recognised where there assets, net of the impact of the deferred gain or loss in the is a present obligation, whether legal unwinding of the discount on scheme consolidated income statement is or constructive, as a result of a past liabilities, is included within finance accompanied by the corresponding event for which it is probable that a costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, deferred income tax.
transfer of economic benefits will be including differences between the required to settle the obligation and a Deferred income tax assets are expected and actual return on scheme reasonable estimate can be made of recognised to the extent that it is assets, are recognised through the the amount of the obligation.
probable that future taxable profit will Statement of Recognised Income and Where appropriate the Group be available against which the Expense.
discounts provisions to their present temporary differences can be utilised.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 51 Group Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES value.
The unwinding of the provision equipment.
The capital elements of the transferred to the consolidated income discounting is included as an interest related lease obligations are included in statement and classified as income or charge within finance costs in the liabilities.
The interest elements of the expense in the same periods during income statement.
lease obligations are charged to the which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects the income statement over the period of the lease term.
Fees and commissions The gain or loss relating to the Fees and commissions are derived from Leases in which a significant portion of ineffective portion is recognised two principal sources: the risks and rewards of ownership are instantly in the income statement.
retained by the lessor are classified as Insurance broking When a hedging instrument expires or operating leases.
Payments made under Income relating to insurance broking is is sold, or when a hedge no longer operating leases net of any incentives brought into account at the later of, meets the criteria for hedge received from the lessor are charged to the policy inception date or when the accounting, any cumulative gain or loss the income statement on a straight-line policy placement has been completed existing in equity at that time remains basis over the period of the lease.
Where there is an in the hedging reserves and is expectation of future servicing recognised when the committed or Derivative financial requirements an element of income forecasted transaction ultimately is instruments relating to the policy is deferred to recognised in the consolidated income The Group only enters into derivative cover the associated contractual statement.
When a committed or financial instruments in order to hedge obligation.
forecasted transaction is no longer underlying commercial exposures.
expected to occur, the cumulative gain Other services Derivative financial instruments are or loss that was reported in equity is Fees and other income receivable are initially recognised at fair value on the immediately transferred to the recognised in the period which they date a derivative contract is entered consolidated income statement.
relate and when they can be measured into and are subsequently re-measured with reasonable certainty.
The method of Fair value estimation recognising the resulting gain or loss is The fair value of financial instruments Non-recurring items dependent on the nature of the item traded in active markets such as Non-recurring items are separately being hedged.
The Group designates available-for-sale is based upon quoted identified to provide greater derivatives as either a hedge of the fair market prices at the balance sheet understanding of the Groups value of a recognised asset or liability date.
The quoted market price used for underlying performance.
Items classified fair value hedge, or a hedge of a financial assets held by the Group is the as exceptional items include: gains or forecasted transaction or of the foreign current bid price.
losses arising from the sale of currency risk on a firm commitment businesses and investments: closure The carrying value less impairment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net costs for businesses: restructuring costs: investment in a foreign entity net provision of trade receivables and post acquisition integration costs: and investment hedges.
payables are assumed to approximate other credits and charges of nontheir fair values.
The fair values of Changes in the fair value of derivatives recurring nature that require inclusion financial liabilities is estimated by that are designated and qualify as fair in order to provide additional insight discounting the future contractual cash value hedges and that are highly into the the underlying business flows at the current market interest rate effective, are recorded in the performance.
that is available to the Group for similar consolidated income statement, along financial instruments.
Items of a non-recurring and material with any changes in the fair value of nature are charged or credited to the hedged asset or liability that is Dividend distribution operating profit and are classified to attributable to the hedged risk.
the appropriate income statement Dividends proposed or declared after Changes in the fair value of derivatives headings.
To assist in the analysis and the balance sheet date are not that are designated and qualify as cash understanding of the underlying recognised as a liability at the balance flow hedges and that are highly trading position of the Group these sheet date.
Final dividends are effective, are recognised in equity.
items are summarised within the recognised as a charge to equity once Where the forecasted transaction or Operating Profit, note 5 on page 61, approved and interim dividends are firm commitment results in the under the heading of exceptional charged once paid.
recognition of a non-financial asset or items.
of a non-financial liability, the gains and Financial and capital risk losses previously deferred in equity are Leases management transferred from equity and included in Assets held under leasing agreements, The Groups exposure to financial risks the initial measurement of the cost of which transfer substantially all the risks and its financial and capital the asset or liability.
Otherwise, and rewards of ownership to the Group management policies are detailed in the amounts deferred in equity are are included in property, plant and Directors Report on pages 31 to 33.
52 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Group Financial Statements c Income taxes A balance sheet provision is established Critical accounting estimates in respect of such claims when it is and judgments The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant probable that the liability has been Estimates and judgments used in incurred and the amount of the liability judgement is required in determining preparing the financial statements are the worldwide provision for income can be reasonably estimated.
continually evaluated and are based on The Group analyses its litigation taxes.
There are many transactions and historical experience and other factors, calculations for which the ultimate tax exposures based on available including expectations of future events determination is uncertain during the information, including external legal that are believed to be reasonable.
Where the consultation where appropriate, to The resulting accounting estimates will, final tax outcome of these matters is assess its potential liability.
by definition, seldom equal the related different from the amounts that were actual results.
The estimates and The outcome of the currently pending initially recorded, such differences will assumptions that have a significant and future proceedings cannot be impact the income tax and deferred tax effect on the carrying amounts of predicted with certainty.
Thus, an provisions in the period in which such assets and liabilities are discussed adverse decision in a current or future determination is made.
lawsuit could result in additional costs that are not covered, either wholly or d Pension obligations a Property, plant and equipment partially, under insurance policies and The present value of the pension Assets are carried at historical cost less are in excess of the presently obligations depends on a number of depreciation calculated to write off the established provisions.
It is possible factors that are determined on an cost of such assets over their estimated therefore that the financial position, actuarial basis using a number of useful lives.
results of operations or cash flows of assumptions.
The assumptions used in Management determines the estimated the Group could be materially affected determining the net cost income for useful lives and related depreciation by the unfavourable outcome of pensions include the expected longcharges at acquisition.
term rate of return on the relevant useful life is reviewed annually and the plans assets and the discount rate.
depreciation charge is revised where Any changes in these assumptions will Future developments useful lives are subsequently found to impact the carrying amount of pension The following pronouncements may be be different to those previously obligations.
relevant to the Group but were not estimated.
effective at 31st December 2007 and The expected return on plan assets b Impairment of assets have not been applied in preparing assumption is determined on a uniform The Group tests annually whether these financial statements.
basis, taking into consideration longgoodwill and other assets that have term historical returns, asset allocation IFRS 8, Operating segments effective indefinite useful lives suffered any and future estimates of long-term from 1st January 2009 requiring a impairment.
Other assets are reviewed investment returns.
The Group management approach, under which for impairment whenever events or determines the appropriate discount segment information is presented on changes in circumstances indicate that rate at the end of each year.
This is the the same basis as that used for internal the carrying amount of the asset interest rate that should be used to reporting purposes.
"determine the present value of The recoverable amount of an asset or IFRIC 14, ""IAS 19 - The limit on a estimated future cash outflows defined benefit asset, minimum a cash-generating unit is determined expected to be required to settle the based on value-in use calculations funding requirements and their pension obligations."
"In determining the interaction"" effective from 1st January prepared on the basis of managements appropriate discount rate, the Group assumptions and estimates."
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on considers the interest rates of highThis determination requires significant assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the quality corporate bonds that are judgment.
In making this judgment, the amount of the surplus that can be denominated in the currency in which Group evaluates, among other factors, recognised as an asset.
It also explains the benefits will be paid, and that have the duration and extent to which the how the pension asset or liability terms to maturity approximating the fair value of an investment is less than maybe affected by a statutory on terms of the related pension liability.
contractual minimum funding its cost: and the financial health of and Other key assumptions for pension near-term business outlook for the requirement.
obligations are based in part on current investment, including factors such as market conditions.
The Group is assessing the full impact industry and sector performance, of these accounting changes: and to e Errors and omissions liability changes in regional economies and the extent they may be applicable, During the ordinary course of business operational and financing cash flow.
none of these pronouncements are the Group can be subject to claims for expected to cause any material errors and omissions made in adjustments to the financial statements.
connection with its broking activities.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 53 Group Financial Statements
