Segment Information Primary reporting format - business segments Business segments: the Group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main segments: Risk & Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other operations.
The segments are the basis on which the Company reports its primary segment information.
The Risk & Insurance segment comprises JLTs worldwide insurance, reinsurance broking and risk services activities.
The Employee Benefits segment consists of pension administration, outsourcing, employee benefits consultancy and US Group marketing activities.
The Head Office Other segment consists mainly of holding companies, central administration functions, the Group's captive insurance companies and the Group's investment in Newstone Courtage the holding company of SIACI Saint Honor.
Segment results: In accordance with IAS 14, segment results include the net income or expense derived from the trading activities of the segment.
Investment income and finance costs are excluded since the trading activities of the Groups primary segments are not of a financial nature.
The standard also specifically excludes the income tax expense from segmental allocation with the consequence that the minority interest charge is also excluded.
Segment assets include: - non current assets excluding investments in associates and deferred tax assets, - trade debtors and other debtors, It excludes any interest bearing assets e. g. cash and investments & deposits.
Segment liabilities include: - insurance and other creditors, - provisions for liabilities and charges.
It excludes any interest bearing liabilities e. g. borrowings as well as income & deferred tax liabilities.
"Items excluded from segmental allocation are referred to below as unallocated""."
Investments in associates: following the merger of the Groups French associate SIACI SA with Assurances et Conseils Saint-Honore the Group disposed of its shareholding in Courcelles Participations the holding company for SIACI SA in exchange for cash and a 20% shareholding in the new Holding company of the merged entity, Newstone Courtage.
For the purposes of this segmental analysis the Groups share of net profit from both Courcelles and Newstone during the year as well as the net investment in Newstone at 31st December 2007 are shown separately in conjunction with data from the Head Office & Other segment.
Group companies also own a number of small associates in Australia and Asia, which are included in the Risk & Insurance segment.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets.
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent company Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
The Risk & Insurance segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country and also in Guernsey.
In the Americas, the Risk & Insurance segment operates in the following countries: Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Mexico, Peru and the United States.
In Europe, it operates in the Republic of Ireland, Italy, Spain, Poland, France, Sweden, Norway and Russia.
The Australasian segment includes operations in Australia and New Zealand and the Asian segment includes operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Korea, Philippines, Malaysia and China.
The Employee Benefits segment operates mainly in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
The Head Office & Other activities segment is mainly based in the United Kingdom with minor operations in the United States, Europe and Asia.
The Groups captive operations whilst located in Bermuda are included in the United Kingdom segment.
Fees and commissions are allocated based on 1 the country in which the office is located and 2 the country in which the customer is located.
Depreciation, amortisation & impairment, capital expenditure, segment assets and liabilities are allocated based on the country in which they are located or occur.
58 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Group Financial Statements 4.
