JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 70 Glossary of Terms Return to shareholders Discount Premium Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to midIf the share price of an investment company is lower than the market price basis, assuming that all dividends received net net asset value NAV per share, the trust is said to be trading of tax were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more reinvestment are not taken into account.
common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
Return on net assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid Performance Attribution value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded by the Company net of tax were reinvested in the shares of performance relative to its benchmark.
the Company at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Prior to 31st December 2005 total return on net assets were Allocation Effect based on a mid value to mid value basis.
However to ensure Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in consistency in the total return valuation basis, all net asset the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different values prior to the 31st December have been adjusted to a countries, sectors or asset types.
bid-market value basis using and average factor compiled from the twelve month end valuations in the year to Selection Effect 31st December 2005 by Fundamental Data.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of Benchmark Return investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Gearing Cash Effect mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying balances on the Companys relative performance.
companies at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Fees Expenses The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy performance.
does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys Residual performance and that of the stated index.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as Actual Gearing Factor calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
by the Investment Trust and total return from the attribution This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the systems includes dividend income received in on the stocks market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
held by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of methodologies and timing differences.
Total Expense Ratio Share Buybacks Management fees and all other operating expenses and Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the including tax relief, where allowable, but excluding interest number of shares in issue.
payments and performance fees expressed as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
T H E C O M P A N Y 71 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 72 Notes T H E C O M P A N Y 73 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 40 30 30 or 0207 742 9999 8.30 am to 6. oo pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5. oo pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
