JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 68 Notice of Annual General Meeting Official List for the five business days immediately Notice is hereby given that the seventypreceding the day on which the ordinary share is eighth Annual General Meeting of purchased or b the price of the last independent JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc trade: or c the highest current independent bid: will be held at The Library, JPMorgan, 60 iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the on Wednesday 18th July 2007 at 12.00 noon Directors at the date following not more than seven for the following purposes: days before the date of purchase: 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 17th the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st March 2007.
January 2009 unless the authority is renewed at the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 or at year ended 31st March 2007. any other general meeting prior to such time: and 3 To re-elect Andrew Murison a Director of the Company.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby 4 To re-elect Alexander Zagoreos a Director of the conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and Company.
may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to 5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Authority to sell Growth and Income Shares from Treasury their remuneration for the ensuing year.
Special Resolution Special Business: 7 THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised, for To consider the following resolution: the purposes of paragraph 12.6 of the Listing Rules of the Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares Special United Kingdom Listing Authority, to sell Growth and Resolution Income shares in the capital of the Company at a price below the net asset value per share of the existing Growth 6 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as and Income shares in issue, provided always that such hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in issues will be limited to: accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning i up to an aggregate nominal amount of of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Growth shares and approximately 999,424, being approximately 10% Income shares both being classes of ordinary shares in of the issued share capital of the Growth and the capital of the Company Income share classes in issue at the date of the passing of this resolution: and PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT ii the sale of shares which, immediately before such i the maximum number of Growth and Income sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares.
shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 24,781,445 or 10,362,623 respectively, or, if different, Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on sale of that number of Growth and Income shares which is ordinary shares from treasury Special Resolution equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of the 8 THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 7 set out relevant share class as at the date of the passing of above, the Directors of the Company be and they are this Resolution: hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to ii the minimum price which may be paid for any allot within the meaning of Section 94 3A of the Act Growth or Income share shall be 5p or 2.5p equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of respectively: the Act wholly for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such sale, provided that this power shall iii the maximum price which may be paid for any be limited to the allotment within the meaning of ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of Section 94 3A of the Act of equity securities for cash out the average of the middle market quotations for an of treasury up to an aggregate nominal amount of ordinary share taken from and calculated by 999,424, being approximately 10% of the share capital of reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily T H E C O M P A N Y 69 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Electronic appointment CREST members the Growth and Income share classes in issue as at the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the date of the passing of this resolution and shall expire on CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008, or fifteen Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service months after the date of the passing of this resolution, provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s save that the Company may before such expiry make who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
offers, agreements or arrangements which would or might In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos CREST Manual.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements or ID7RA01 by not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time expired.
of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST By order of the Board in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting Secretary.
service provider s, should note that CRESTCo does not make available 8th June 2007 special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal Notes member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service i A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if he so connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors wishes.
or voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system ii Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the and timings.
Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the meeting.
circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities iii To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of Regulations 2001. the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
iv Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual to act as its representative and to vote in person at the meeting.
The appointment must comply with section 375 of the Companies Act 1985.
The representative should bring to the meeting evidence of his or her appointment, including any authority under which it is signed, unless previously given to the Companys registrars.
v The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
vi No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
