JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 64 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st March Interim results announced November Final results announced June Dividends payable Growth and Income April and October Annual General Meeting July History Manager and Secretary JPMorgan European Investment Trust was formed in 1929 as JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited The London and Holyrood Trust Limited and was a general Companys Registered Office investment trust until 1982 when the name was changed to The Finsbury Dials Fleming Universal Investment Trust.
Under this name the 20 Finsbury Street portfolio became more internationally invested until November London EC2Y 9AQ 1988, when the Board decided to concentrate on Continental Telephone number: 020 7742 6000 European investments.
In 1992 shareholders approved a formal adoption of this specialisation.
The Company adopted its current Please contact Jonathan Latter for company secretarial and name in August 2006. administrative matters.
Registrars Company Numbers Lloyds TSB Registrars Company registration number: 237958 Reference 1080 London Stock Exchange Sedol numbers: The Causeway Growth: B18JK16 Worthing Income: B17XWW4 West Sussex BN99 6DA Bloomberg Codes: Telephone number: 0870 600 3984 Growth: JETG LN Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share Income: JETI LN certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the Reuters Codes: Registrar quoting reference 1080.
L Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their Income: JETI.
L holdings on the internet by visiting www.
Savings Product Administrators Market Information For queries on the JPMorgan ISA, PEP, Share Plan or Pension The Companys net asset value NAV is published daily, via the Account, see contact details on the reverse of this report.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Auditors The market prices are shown daily in The Daily Telegraph, the Ernst & Young LLP Financial Times, The Independent, The Herald, the Times, The 1 More London Place Scotsman, on BBC Ceefax and on the Company website at London SE1 2AF www.
com, where the share prices are updated every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
Brokers Winterflood Securities Web Site The Atrium Building www.
com Cannon Bridge 25 Dowgate Hill Share Transactions London EC4R 2GA The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a Telephone 020 7621 0004 stockbroker or through a professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be purchased and held through the JPMorgan Investment Trust Share Plan, Individual Savings Account ISA and Personal Equity Plan PEP.
A member of the AIC T H E C O M P A N Y 65 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Capital Structure and Conversion between Share Classes The Company has two share classes, each with distinct Conversion between the share classes investment policies, objectives and underlying asset pools.
Those who hold shares through the JPM Investment Trust Each share class is listed separately and traded on the London Share Plan PEP ISA or Pension Account must submit a Stock Exchange.
This capital structure means that conversion instruction form which can be found at shareholders may benefit from greater investment flexibility www.
Instructions for CREST holders can in a tax-efficient manner.
also be found at this address.
Those who hold shares in certificated form on the main register must complete the Capital Structure conversion notice printed on the reverse of their certificate.
Growth Shares Instructions must be received in the month of August for Capital growth from Continental European investments, by September conversions and in the month of February for consistent out-performance of the benchmark and a rising March conversions.
share price over the longer term by taking carefully controlled risks through an investment method that is clearly The number of shares that will arise upon conversion will be communicated to shareholders.
determined on the basis of the relative net asset values of each share class.
Income Shares To provide a growing income together with the potential for More details concerning conversion dates and conversion long-term capital growth from a diversified portfolio of instruction forms can be found on the Companys web site: investments in pan-european stockmarkets.
Conversion Opportunities Shareholders in any of the two share classes are able to convert some or all of their shares into shares of the other classes without such conversion being treated, under current law, as a disposal for UK capital gains tax purposes.
The conversion mechanism allows shareholders to alter their investment profile to match their changing investment needs in a tax-efficient manner.
Conversion dates arise every six months on 15th September and 15th March if such a date is not a business day, then the conversion date will move to the next business day.
The Company, or its Manager, makes no administrative charge for any of the above conversions.
