JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 45 Notice of Meeting iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the Notice is hereby given that the one hundred market for cash at prices below the prevailing net and twenty first Annual General Meeting of asset value per ordinary share as determined by the JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Directors : Trust plc will be held at Trinity House, v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 15th November 2008 unless the authority is renewed at Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 or Wednesday 16th May 2007 at 12.00 noon at any other general meeting prior to such time: and for the following purposes: vi the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a and the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st January purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such 2007. contract notwithstanding such expiry.
2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st January 2007.
3 To re-elect Richard Hambro a Director of the Company.
By order of the Board JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, 4 To re-elect Ian Russell a Director of the Company.
Secretary 5 To re-elect Hamish Leslie Melville a Director of the 11th April 2007 Company.
1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to 6 To re-elect Sandy Nairn a Director of the Company.
appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
7 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form to the Company and to authorise the Directors to of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if he so determine their remuneration.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the Special Business: Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the To consider the following resolution: meeting.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of Resolution the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members 8 THAT the Company be generally and subject as as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also the Act to make market purchases within the meaning apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is 25p each in the capital of the Company.
adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
authorised to be purchased shall be 18,455,274 or if 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests less, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to admitted only by prior arrangement.
14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual to act the date of the passing of this Resolution: as its representative and to vote in person at the meeting.
The ii the minimum price which may be paid for an appointment must comply with section 375 of the Companies Act 1985. ordinary share shall be 25p: The representative should bring to the meeting evidence of his or her appointment, including any authority under which it is signed, unless iii the maximum price which may be paid for an previously given to the Companys registrars.
ordinary share or unit shall be an amount equal to 5 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the a 105 per cent of the average of the middle market share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the quotations for an ordinary share taken from and Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday calculated by reference to the London Stock Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
immediately preceding the day on which the 6 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
ordinary share is purchased, or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 46 Glossary of Terms Return to shareholders Discount Premium Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to midIf the share price of an investment company is lower than the market price basis, assuming that all dividends received net net asset value NAV per share, the trust is said to be trading of tax were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more reinvestment are not taken into account.
common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
Return on net assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid Performance Attribution value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded by the Company net of tax were reinvested in the shares of performance relative to its benchmark.
the Company at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Prior to 31st December 2005 total return on net assets were Allocation Effect based on a mid value to mid value basis.
However to ensure Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in consistency in the total return valuation basis, all net asset the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different values prior to the 31st December have been adjusted to a countries, sectors or asset types.
bid-market value basis using and average factor compiled from the twelve month end valuations in the year to 31st Selection Effect December 2005 by Fundamental Data.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of It should be noted that there may be a degree of divergence in investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
the total return on net assets and the % change in net asset Gearing Cash Effect value per share quoted within the accounting records if the Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash Trust has elected not to restate previous period end valuations balances on the Companys relative performance.
onto a bid-market value basis under paragraph 108D of FRS 26.
Fees Expenses The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total Benchmark Return assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to performance.
mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying Residual companies at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys by the Investment Trust and total return from the attribution investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy systems includes dividend income received in on the stocks does not follow or track this index and consequently, there held by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of may be some divergence between the Companys methodologies and timing differences.
performance and that of the stated index.
Share Buyback Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the Actual Gearing Factor number of shares in issue.
Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Total Expense Ratio Management fees and all other operating expenses and including tax relief, where allowable, but excluding interest payments expressed as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
Printed in England by Henry Good & Son Limited, Basildon, Essex SS14 3DZ JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 40 30 30 or 0207 742 9999 8.30 am to 6. oo pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5. oo pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
