50 Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Group and parent for the parent company financial statements, state whether company financial statements in accordance with applicable law applicable UK GAAP has been followed, subject to any material and regulations.
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to company will continue in business.
prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and applicable law.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have performance of the Group.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view fraud and other irregularities.
are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also The parent company financial statements are required by law to responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
Report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations and for the maintenance and integrity of In preparing both the Group and parent company financial statements, the corporate and financial information included on the Companys the directors are required to: website.
As explained in the Directors Report, certain information included in the separate Annual Review and Summary Financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Statement is incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU:
