Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 43 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Basis of preparation The financial statements of Bunzl plc the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
During the year ended 31 December 2007 Urgent Issues Task Force UITF 41 Scope of FRS 20 and UITF 44 Group and Treasury Share Transactions were issued.
The application of these new interpretations has had no impact on the financial statements.
Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures not to prepare a financial instruments note as the information is available in the published consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company financial statements.
2 Accounting policies a Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
b Investment in own shares The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly employee benefit trust shares is deducted from shareholders funds.
c Share based payments The Company operates equity settled and cash settled share based compensation plans.
For equity settled plans the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives on the grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting period with a corresponding credit to equity.
For cash settled plans the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options, determined at the appropriate balance sheet reporting date, and is remeasured at each balance sheet date thereafter with a corresponding credit recognised as a liability.
The amounts recognised as expenses are adjusted to reflect the actual number of options and other share based incentives that are expected to vest.
Details of these plans are outlined in Note 8.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries these are recharged in full to the relevant subsidiaries.
These costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
d Tangible fixed assets Until 31 December 1999 land and buildings were revalued periodically.
As permitted under FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, the valuations of land and buildings have not been and will not be updated.
All other tangible fixed assets are included at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation.
The profit or loss on sale of tangible fixed assets is calculated by reference to the carrying values of the assets.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
e Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost over the assets estimated remaining useful lives.
This is at the following annual rates applied to cost or deemed cost less estimated residual value: Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 10 20% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% Freehold land Not depreciated The assets residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Leases Where the Company has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Future instalments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in creditors with the corresponding asset value treated as a tangible fixed asset.
All other leases are treated as operating leases and the rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
g Tax The charge for tax is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
h Pensions The Company participates in a Group UK defined benefit scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
As the Company is unable to identify its share of scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, the Company treats contributions to defined benefit schemes as if they were contributions to a defined contribution scheme in accordance with the exemptions permitted by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
As a result the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the relevant accounting period.
