6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 122 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BURBERRY GROUP PLC CONTINUED A Basis of preparation B Accounting policies continued Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent Company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is listed on the London Stock vii Financial instruments Exchange and its principal business is investment.
Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively.
The Company used the exemption not to present FRS 25 disclosures in the notes to the entity financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented within the Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific: licensing activity is also consolidated financial statements.
carried out, principally in Japan.
All of the companies, which comprise Burberry Group, are owned by the Company directly or indirectly.
viii Foreign currency transactions These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention with the exception of financial Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary instruments which are included in the financial statements at fair value and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the UK assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling and the Companies Act 1985. at the Balance Sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
B Accounting policies ix Cash flow statement The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement under FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash flow statements, consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Changes to accounting policies and presentation are set out as it is a part of Burberry Group and the cash flow for the Group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Burberry Group.
in note C. x Related party transactions i Share schemes FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions and balances between the reporting entity Incentive plans and related parties.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under the terms of FRS 8, not to disclose details of transactions Employees in Burberry Group including directors receive certain share incentives, relating to Burberry Group plc shares.
with entities that are part of Burberry Group.
The cost of the share incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made.
The impact of performance conditions C Changes in accounting policies and presentation is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions linked to the price of Burberry Group plc shares The Accounting Standards Board has issued a new Financial Reporting Standard in the year to 31 March 2007, which impacted on the i. e. market conditions.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions about the number financial statements for the Company.
of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each Balance Sheet date.
The results for the year to 31 March 2007 have incorporated the impact of the amendments to FRS 26 Financial instruments: The cost of the share-based incentives are recharged and recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards in the entity Measurement, which impacts the accounting for certain financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company.
The adoption of these employing the relevant employees receiving the share awards.
A corresponding increase in equity is recognised in Burberry Group plc.
amendments had no material impact on the reported results for 31 March 2007 and 2006.
The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium in Burberry Group plc.
D Investments in Group companies ii Dividend distribution Cost m Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved As at 31 March 2005 1,047.2 by the shareholders for the final dividend or paid in respect of the interim dividend.
Additions 65.3 iii Investments in Group companies As at 31 March 2006 1,112.5 Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, less any provision to reflect impairment in value.
Additions Loans to Group companies are considered to be part of the net investment in the subsidiary and any foreign exchange gain or losses made of these loans is recognised in the profit and loss account.
As at 31 March 2007 1,112.5 iv Impairment of assets The principal subsidiaries of the Burberry Group are listed in note 31 of the Group financial statements.
Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are Burberry Group plc is registered in England and Wales and its registered number is 03458224. subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, E Debtors assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
As at As at 31 March 31 March v Taxation including deferred tax 2007 2006 m m Deferred taxation is recognised as a liability or asset if transactions have occurred at the Balance Sheet date that give rise to an obligation to pay more taxation in future, or a right to pay less taxation in future.
An asset is not recognised to the extent that the realisation of economic Debtors receivable within one year benefits in the future is uncertain.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Corporation tax 7.8 6.2 Amounts receivable from Group companies 74.4 65.7 vi Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity Total debtors receivable within one year 82.2 71.9 as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Debtors receivable after one year Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable Amounts receivable from Group companies 682.2 650.3 incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction Total debtors receivable after one year 682.2 650.3 costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Total debtors 764.4 722.2 The loans receivable from Group companies are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
122 123 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
