6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 80 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Basis of preparation 1 Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific: licensing activity is also Stock provisioning carried out, principally in Japan.
All of the companies which comprise Burberry Group are owned by Burberry Group plc the Company The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result, it is directly or indirectly.
necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of stocks and the associated provisioning required.
Stock provisioning is based on the age and condition of stock, as well as anticipated saleability.
The consolidated financial statements of the Burberry Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Income and deferred taxes These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating Segments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 2 Accounting policies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006 The consolidated financial information of Burberry Group plc and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006 The principal accounting policies of the Group are: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 a Turnover IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 Turnover, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material financial impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Wholesale sales are recognised when goods are despatched to trade customers, as this reflects the transfer of risks and rewards of ownership, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates The parent Company has not adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements for the parent Company have been of transactions with customers.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
Royalties prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis Basis of consolidation of production volumes.
The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of the parent Company and its subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity.
b Share schemes The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Share incentive plans The effects of intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The cost of the share incentives received by employees including directors is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on The impact of performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions linked to which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the price of Burberry Group plc shares i. e. market conditions.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the results for the portion of the reporting period during which Burberry Group plc had control.
the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at Critical judgements in applying accounting policies each Balance Sheet date.
No critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations see below have been made by management in the process of applying the The cost of the share-based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding increase entitys accounting policies which would have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain estimates and to share capital and share premium.
assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual c Operating leases circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
Burberry Group is a lessee of property.
Gross rental expenditure in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the leases.
Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of turnover achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued for on Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations that basis.
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Lease premiums and incentives Such estimates include, but are not limited to goodwill and asset impairment, stock provisioning, income and deferred tax.
These are Amounts paid to acquire the rights to a lease Lease premiums are written off in equal annual instalments over the life of the lease contract.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are recognised over the full term of the lease.
Impairment of goodwill d Dividend distribution The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from by the shareholders.
the continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
80 81 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
