6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 80 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Basis of preparation 1 Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific: licensing activity is also Stock provisioning carried out, principally in Japan.
All of the companies which comprise Burberry Group are owned by Burberry Group plc the Company The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result, it is directly or indirectly.
necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of stocks and the associated provisioning required.
Stock provisioning is based on the age and condition of stock, as well as anticipated saleability.
The consolidated financial statements of the Burberry Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Income and deferred taxes These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating Segments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 2 Accounting policies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006 The consolidated financial information of Burberry Group plc and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006 The principal accounting policies of the Group are: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 a Turnover IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 Turnover, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material financial impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Wholesale sales are recognised when goods are despatched to trade customers, as this reflects the transfer of risks and rewards of ownership, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates The parent Company has not adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements for the parent Company have been of transactions with customers.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
Royalties prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis Basis of consolidation of production volumes.
The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of the parent Company and its subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity.
b Share schemes The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Share incentive plans The effects of intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The cost of the share incentives received by employees including directors is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on The impact of performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions linked to which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the price of Burberry Group plc shares i. e. market conditions.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the results for the portion of the reporting period during which Burberry Group plc had control.
the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at Critical judgements in applying accounting policies each Balance Sheet date.
No critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations see below have been made by management in the process of applying the The cost of the share-based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding increase entitys accounting policies which would have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain estimates and to share capital and share premium.
assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual c Operating leases circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
Burberry Group is a lessee of property.
Gross rental expenditure in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the leases.
Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of turnover achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued for on Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations that basis.
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Lease premiums and incentives Such estimates include, but are not limited to goodwill and asset impairment, stock provisioning, income and deferred tax.
These are Amounts paid to acquire the rights to a lease Lease premiums are written off in equal annual instalments over the life of the lease contract.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are recognised over the full term of the lease.
Impairment of goodwill d Dividend distribution The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from by the shareholders.
the continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
80 81 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 82 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued e Pension costs h Impairment of assets Defined benefit schemes Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are Prior to the demerger of the Group from GUS plc on 13 December 2005, it was agreed that existing employees of the Burberry Group who subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying were participating in the GUS defined benefit pension scheme would continue to do so until 31 December 2007 or such earlier date as amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable required by HM Customs & Revenue or by Burberry.
When eventual withdrawal of members of the Burberry Group from the GUS pension amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing scheme takes place on or before 31 December 2007, Burberry must pay any liabilities due under section 75 or 75A of the Pensions Act impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
GUS has indemnified Burberry on an after tax basis against any amounts which are in excess of 1.25m.
i Stock Eligible employees of Burberry Group also participate in defined benefit schemes in the US, France and Taiwan.
Stock and work in progress are valued on a first-in-first-out basis at the lower of cost including an appropriate proportion of production overhead and net realisable value.
Provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard to the age and Where arrangements are funded, assets are held in independently administrated trusts.
The cost of providing defined benefit schemes condition of stock, as well as its anticipated saleability.
to participating Burberry employees is charged to the Income Statement over the anticipated period of employment.
j Taxation including deferred tax The asset or liability recognised in the Balance Sheet, in respect of defined benefit schemes, represents Burberrys share of the present value The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
of the defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and past service costs.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never Net actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly to equity through the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantially enacted by Defined contribution schemes the Balance Sheet date.
Burberry Group eligible employees also participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and held in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating Burberry employees is recognised in the their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an asset Income Statement and comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit f Intangible fixed assets or loss, it is exempt from deferred tax.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted Goodwill by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is Goodwill is the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
as an intangible fixed asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into differences can be utilised.
alignment with those of Burberry Group.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events or changes temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
k Share capital Trademarks and trading licences Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity The cost of securing and renewing trademarks and other intellectual property is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset and amortised as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
by equal annual instalments over its useful economic life, typically ten years.
The useful economic life of trademarks and other intellectual property is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued Computer software or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable external development costs is capitalised as transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which are up to five years.
l Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions g Property, plant and equipment of the instrument.
A financial asset is no longer recognised when, the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost, based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is no longer recognised, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Depreciation The Groups financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, borrowings and Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal derivative instruments, the accounting for which is explained below.
annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with an original maturity date of three months or less, held with banks, Land Not depreciated liquidity funds as well as bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds less than 50 years expired Over the unexpired term of the lease Trade and other receivables Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 3 8 years Trade and other receivables arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third-party with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date.
Receivables Retail fixtures and fittings 2 5 years are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for Office equipment 5 years impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able Computer equipment Up to 5 years to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
82 83 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
