qxd:23148 p061-066 31 3 08 16:36 Page 62 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Legal & General Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the Group financial statements are free from and the Group financial statements in accordance with material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs We also report to you whether in our opinion the information As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with financial statements.
The information given in the Directors IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with Report includes the Governance section that is cross-referred the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs received all the information and explanations we require for as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash ows for the our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors year then ended.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion  LLP on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London We read other information contained in the Annual Report 17 March 2008 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Notes: Group Overview, the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report a The maintenance and integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website and Governance.
We consider the implications for our report is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
62 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p061-066.
qxd:23148 p061-066 31 3 08 16:36 Page 63 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Revenue Gross written premiums 4 4,793 4,286 Outward reinsurance premiums 517 518 Net change in provision for unearned premiums 7 7 Net premiums earned 4,283 3,775 Fees from fund management and investment contracts 640 535 Investment return 6 13,225 16,572 Operational income 54 84 Total revenue 4 18,202 20,966 Expenses Claims and change in insurance liabilities 4,467 1,938 Reinsurance recoveries 345 1,123 Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 7 4,122 3,061 Change in provisions for investment contract liabilities 11,999 13,878 Acquisition costs 848 987 Finance costs 214 153 Other expenses 662 674 1 Transfers from to unallocated divisible surplus 438 284 Total expenses 4 17,407 19,037 profit before income tax 10 795 1,929 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 12 88 89 profit from continuing operations before income tax attributable to equity holders 883 2,018 Total income tax expense 12 77 298 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 12 88 89 Income tax attributable to equity holders 12 165 387 profit from ordinary activities after income tax 718 1,631 Attributable to: Minority interests 29 6 67 Equity holders of the Company 724 1,564 Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company during the year 13 369 349 Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company proposed after the year end 13 247 248 p p Earnings per share Based on profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 14 11.24 24.12 Diluted earnings per share Based on profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 14 11.18 23.95 1.
Includes 321m release of 1996 Sub-fund in 2007. www.
qxd:23148 p061-066 31 3 08 16:36 Page 64 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Assets Investment in associates 46 14 16 Plant and equipment 16 79 43 Investment property 17 5,969 6,852 Financial investments 18 261,718 201,430 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 20 1,530 1,481 Purchased interest in long term businesses 21 19 23 Deferred acquisition costs 22 1,696 1,456 Income tax recoverable 23 4 12 Other assets 24 1,519 1,622 Cash and cash equivalents 25 8,737 4,930 Total assets 4 281,285 217,865 Equity Share capital 26 157 163 Share premium account 26 927 923 Employee scheme shares 26 42 45 Capital redemption and other reserves 27 59 49 Retained earnings 28 4,345 4,335 Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company 5,446 5,425 Minority interests 29 178 414 Total equity 4 30 5,624 5,839 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 36 1,461 818 Participating insurance contracts 31 11,663 12,660 Participating investment contracts 32 7,462 7,501 Unallocated divisible surplus 33 1,721 2,178 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 34 276 391 Participating contract liabilities 20,570 21,948 Non-participating insurance contracts 31 22,873 21,602 Non-participating investment contracts 32 224,906 162,016 Non-participating contract liabilities 247,779 183,618 Senior borrowings 36 1,327 1,607 Provisions 38 595 568 Deferred income liabilities 39 493 422 Deferred tax liabilities 40 296 472 Income tax liabilities 23 113 106 Other liabilities 41 2,115 1,663 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 912 804 Total liabilities 4 275,661 212,026 Total equity and liabilities 281,285 217,865 The notes on pages 67 to 127 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 63 to 127 and the supplementary financial statements on pages 128 to 146 were approved by the directors on 17 March 2008 and were signed on their behalf by: Sir Rob Margetts Tim Breedon Andrew Palmer Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Director Finance 64 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p061-066.
qxd:23148 p061-066 31 3 08 16:36 Page 65 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Fair value losses on cash ow hedges 27 3 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 4 35 Actuarial losses gains on dened benefit pension schemes 38 40 3 Actuarial losses gains on dened benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 33 16 1 Net change in financial investments designated as available-for-sale 27 1 7 Expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax 19 29 profit from ordinary activities after income tax 718 1,631 Total recognised income and expense 699 1,602 Attributable to: Minority interests 29 6 67 Equity holders of the Company 705 1,535 www.
qxd:23148 p061-066 31 3 08 16:36 Page 66 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Cash ows from operating activities profit from ordinary activities after income tax 718 1,631 Adjustments for non cash movements in net profit for the period Realised and unrealised gains on financial investments and investment properties 4,862 9,505 Investment income 7,797 6,630 Interest expense 214 153 Income tax payable 77 298 Other adjustments 46 46 Net increase decrease in operational assets Investments designated as held for trading or fair value through profit or loss 8,322 9,599 Investments designated as available-for-sale 98 251 Other assets 230 557 Net increase decrease in operational liabilities Insurance contracts 152 1,893 Transfer from to unallocated divisible surplus 455 285 Investment contracts 17,686 19,527 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 115 12 Other liabilities 73 596 Cash used in operations 2,829 4,797 Interest paid 214 146 Interest received 4,202 3,478 Income tax paid 244 315 Dividends received 3,312 3,095 Net cash ows from operating activities 4,227 1,315 Cash ows from investing activities Net acquisition of plant and equipment 58 24 Net proceeds from disposal of private equity investments 10 Non-financial investments purchased 3 Net cash ows from investing activities 58 17 Cash ows from nancing activities Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company during the year 369 349 Proceeds from issue of share capital 4 15 Purchase of employee scheme shares 5 11 Repurchase of shares under share buyback programme 2 320 Proceeds from borrowings 1,948 1,062 Repayment of borrowings 1,637 1,051 Net cash ows from nancing activities 379 334 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,790 964 Exchange gains losses on cash and cash equivalents 17 35 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 4,930 4,001 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 25 8,737 4,930 The Groups consolidated cash ow statement includes all cash and cash equivalent ows, including those relating to the UK long term funds.
66 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 67 Notes to the Financial Statements losses of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the period 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES are included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal Basis of preparation or from the date of gaining control.
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance Associates and joint ventures with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the Associates are entities over which the Group has significant inuence International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the but which it does not control.
Consistent with IAS 28, Investments in European Union, and with those parts of the UK Companies Act 1985 Associates, it is presumed that the Group has significant inuence applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Groups financial where it has between 20% and 50% of the voting rights in the statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Joint ventures are entities where the Group and other The Group presents its balance sheet broadly in order of liquidity.
parties undertake an activity which is subject to joint control.
This is considered to be more relevant than a before or after 12 The Group has interests in associates and joint ventures which months presentation, given the long term nature of the Groups form part of an investment portfolio held through private equity core business.
However, for each asset and liability line item which partnerships, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities.
In combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled before accordance with the choices permitted by IAS 28 and IAS 31, and after 12 months from the balance sheet date, disclosure of Interests in Joint Ventures, these interests have been classied as the split is made by way of a note.
fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value within Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed gross in the financial investments, with changes in fair value recognised in the balance sheet unless a legally enforceable right of offset exists and income statement.
there is an intention to settle recognised amounts on a net basis.
Associates which do not form part of an investment portfolio Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost.
The carrying required or permitted by any accounting standard or International amount of the associate is increased or decreased to reect the Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretation, Groups share of the profit or loss after the date of the acquisition.
as detailed in the applicable accounting policies of the Group.
The Group has adopted IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, Investment vehicles amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and Amendment to Investment vehicles such as Open Ended Investment Companies, International Accounting Standard IAS 1, Presentation of Financial where a Group company exerts control over financial and operating Statements Capital Disclosures.
These standards are applied policy, are consolidated.
The interests of parties other than the Group retrospectively.
IFRS 7 supersedes the disclosure requirements of IAS in such vehicles are classied as liabilities and appear as Net asset 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The adoption of these value attributable to unit holders in the consolidated balance sheet.
standards represents a change in accounting policy and the Product classication comparative gures have been restated accordingly.
There is no The Groups products are classied for accounting purposes as impact on current or prior year profit resulting from the adoption either insurance contracts participating and non-participating of these standards, as their provisions relate to disclosure.
or investment contracts participating and non-participating.
Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant Use of estimates insurance risk to the insurer at the inception of the contract.
The preparation of the financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions which affect items reported in the Contracts which do not transfer significant insurance risk to the consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the insurer are classied as investment contracts.
Hybrid contract types, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the containing both insurance and investment features, have been treated as investment contracts when accounting for premiums, financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on claims and other revenue.
managements best knowledge of current circumstances and future events and actions, actual results may differ from those estimates, A number of insurance and investment contracts contain possibly signicantly.
They are particularly relevant to the estimation discretionary participating features DPF which entitle the of insurance and investment contract liabilities and associated policyholders to receive guaranteed benets as well as additional benets: balances, deferred acquisition costs, pension schemes, tax liabilities the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion and the determination of fair values of unquoted financial investments.
The significant estimates and assumptions used are disclosed in of the Group: and the relevant notes to these financial statements, including Note 35 which are contractually based on: on Long term insurance valuation assumptions.
the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract: Summary of significant accounting policies realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified The Group has selected accounting policies which fairly state its pool of assets held by the issuer: or financial position and financial performance for a reporting period.
the profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity which The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years issues the contract.
Contracts with DPF are referred to as participating contracts.
WithThe principal accounting policies adopted in preparing these profits contracts in the UK and most Guarantie Long Terme contracts financial statements are set out below.
in France are classied as participating.
Consolidation principles Long term insurance contracts Subsidiary undertakings Premium income The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, Premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash ows of the Company them are created.
and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December each year.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses Claims are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are those entities including Death claims are accounted for on notication of death.
Surrenders special purpose entities, mutual funds and unit trusts over which the for non-linked policies are accounted for when payment is made.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to gain economic benets.
profits or claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 68 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Investment contracts 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Premium income Claims payable include the direct costs of settlement.
For investment contracts, amounts collected as premiums are not included in the income statement but are reported as contributions Acquisition costs to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
Acquisition costs comprise direct costs, such as initial commission, and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Revenue from investment contracts Acquisition costs relating to non-participating insurance contracts Fees charged for investment management services are recognised written outside the with-profits part of the UK Long Term Funds LTFs as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed which are incurred during a financial year are deferred by use of an the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of asset which is amortised over the period during which the costs are services, are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in expected to be recoverable, and in accordance with the expected which the services will be provided.
incidence of future related margins.
For participating contracts, Fees charged for investment management services for institutional acquisition costs are charged to the income statement when incurred.
and retail fund management are also recognised on this basis.
Insurance contract liabilities Claims Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities are Claims are not included in the income statement but are deducted measured using local Generally Accepted Accounting Principles from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
contract liabilities consists of claims incurred in the period less the In the UK, insurance contract liabilities are determined following corresponding elimination of the policyholder liability originally an annual investigation of the LTFs in accordance with regulatory recognised in the balance sheet and the investment return credited requirements.
For non-participating insurance contracts, the liabilities are Acquisition costs calculated on the basis of current information using the gross For participating investment contracts, acquisition costs comprise premium valuation method.
This brings into account the full direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of premiums receivable under contracts written, having prudent obtaining and processing new business.
These costs are charged to regard to expected lapses and surrenders, estimated renewal and the income statement when incurred.
maintenance costs and contractually guaranteed benets.
For unit For non-participating investment contracts, only directly related linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based on the fund acquisition costs which vary with, and are related to, securing new value together with an allowance for any excess of future expenses contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred and over charges where appropriate.
amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to For participating contracts the liabilities to policyholders are be recoverable from future revenue.
All other costs are recognised determined on a realistic basis in accordance with Financial as expenses when incurred.
Reporting Standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
This includes an assessment of the cost of any future options and guarantees Trail commission granted to policyholders valued on a market consistent basis.
The Group operates distribution agreements with intermediaries The calculation also takes account of bonus decisions which where further commission costs are payable in each period which are consistent with Legal & General Assurance Society Limiteds a relevant policy remains in-force.
For relevant non-participating Societys Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
investment contracts, a liability for the present value of this future The shareholders share of the future cost of bonuses is excluded commission cost is recognised in the balance sheet on inception of the contract.
The present value of future commission costs is from the assessment of the realistic liability.
In determining the realistic value of liabilities for participating deferred as an asset and amortised over the period during which the related revenue will be recognised.
At each subsequent contracts, the value of future profits on non-participating business written in the with-profits part of the fund is accounted for as part reporting date, the liability is remeasured to fair value because this financial liability is part of a portfolio of unit linked assets and liabilities of the calculation.
The present value of future profits VIF on this business is separately determined and its value is deducted from the whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Any increase in the liability is recognised as an additional deferred cost.
Any sum of the liabilities for participating contracts and the unallocated divisible surplus.
change in lapse assumptions or revisions to the underlying assumptions for future cash ows will be reected in the fair value The long term insurance contract liabilities for business transacted by overseas subsidiaries are determined on the basis of recognised movement for a period.
If the future commission liability decreases, a corresponding adjustment is made to the amortisation of the asset.
actuarial methods which reect local supervisory principles or, in the case of the USA, on the basis of US GAAP.
Investment contract liabilities Long term business liabilities can never be denitive as to their Under current IFRS requirements, participating investment contract timing or the amount of claims and are therefore subject to liabilities are measured using local GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4 see regular reassessment.
above for insurance contract liabilities.
In the UK, participating Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received investment contract liabilities are determined in accordance with and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are due.
FRS 27, including a value for guarantees, in the same way as insurance contracts.
Unallocated divisible surplus The nature of benets for participating contracts is such that the Non-participating investment contracts consist of unit linked contracts.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by allocation of surpluses between equity holders and participating policyholders is uncertain.
The amount of surplus which has not been reference to the value of the underlying net asset values of the Groups unitised investment funds at the balance sheet date.
allocated at the balance sheet date is classied within liabilities as the unallocated divisible surplus.
Adjustments made to comply with Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are due.
FRS 27 are charged to the unallocated divisible surplus.
68 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 69 General insurance business represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired Results for the General insurance business are determined after insurance contracts.
These amounts are amortised over the taking account of unearned premiums, outstanding claims and anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
unexpired risks using the annual basis of accounting.
Investments Premium income Investment property Premiums are accounted for in the period in which the risk Investment property comprises land and buildings which are held for commences.
Estimates are included for premiums not notied by long term rental yields and capital growth.
It is carried at fair value the year end and provision is made for the anticipated lapse of with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement renewals not yet confirmed.
Those proportions of premiums written within investment return.
Investment property in the UK is valued biin a year which relate to periods of risk extending beyond the end annually by external chartered surveyors at open market values in of the year are carried forward as unearned premiums.
accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Outside the UK, valuations are Acquisition costs produced in conjunction with external qualied professional valuers A proportion of commission and other acquisition costs relating to in the countries concerned.
In the event of a material change in unearned premiums is carried forward as deferred acquisition market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet costs or, in respect of reinsurance outwards, as deferred income.
date, an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to Technical liabilities reect any material changes in fair value.
Liabilities, together with related reinsurance recoveries, are Financial investments established on the basis of current information.
Such liabilities can The Group classies its financial investments on initial recognition never be denitive as to their timing or the amount of claims and as held for trading HFT, designated at fair value through profit or are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS or loans and receivables.
Initial Claims and related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in recognition of financial investments is on the trade date.
respect of all incidents up to the year end.
Provision is made on The Groups policy is to measure investments at FVTPL except in the basis of available information for the estimated ultimate cost, the US where the related liability is valued on a passive basis not including claims settlement expenses, of claims reported but not yet using current information, in which case investments are classied settled and claims incurred but not yet reported.
All derivatives other than those designated as hedges are provision is made for any overall excess of expected claims and classied as HFT.
deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums and after taking Certain financial investments held by the Group are designated account of investment return.
as FVTPL as their performance is evaluated on a total return basis, Liability adequacy tests consistent with asset performance reporting to the Group Investment The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance and Market Risk Committee and the Groups investment strategy.
liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of liabilities less related Assets designated as FVTPL include debt securities and equity deferred acquisition costs is sufficient to cover current estimates of instruments which would otherwise have been classied as AFS future cash ows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Group discounts all contractual cash ows and compares this amount Assets backing participating and non-participating policyholder with the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately liabilities outside the US are designated as FVTPL.
For participating charged to the income statement, initially reducing deferred contracts the assets are managed on a fair value basis to maximise acquisition costs and then by establishing a provision for losses.
the total return to policyholders over the contract life.
The Groups non-participating investment contract liabilities outside of the US are Reinsurance measured on the basis of current information and are designated as The Groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums and FVTPL to avoid an accounting mismatch in the income statement.
risk in the normal course of business in order to limit the potential The fair values of quoted financial investments are based on for losses and to provide nancing.
Outwards reinsurance premiums current bid prices.
If the market for a financial investment is not are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation premiums for the direct or inwards reinsurance business being techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to reinsured.
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurers similar listed investments, discounted cash ow models or option for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, ceded pricing models.
Private equity investments are valued in accordance unearned premiums and ceded future life policy benets.
Amounts with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent Guidelines, which represent current best practice, developed by the with the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy.
Reinsurance is recorded as an asset in the consolidated balance Association Franais des Investisseurs en Capital, the British Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and Venture sheet unless a right of offset exists, in which case the associated liabilities are reduced commensurately.
The policies used for determining fair value include earnings multiples, the price of a recent investment or a Intangible assets net asset basis.
Goodwill Financial investments classied as HFT and FVTPL are measured Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1998 has been at fair value with gains and losses reected in the income statement.
On disposal, goodwill held in reserves is Financial investments classied as AFS are measured at fair value transferred directly to retained earnings.
From 1998 the Groups policy with unrealised gains and losses recognised in a separate reserve is to recognise goodwill on the balance sheet as an intangible asset, within equity.
Realised gains and losses, impairment losses, measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
dividends, interest and foreign exchange movements on non-equity instruments are reected in the income statement.
Purchased interest in long term businesses A portfolio of in-force contracts acquired either directly or through Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value less acquisition costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is capitalised at an using the effective interest method.
The value of business acquired www.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 70 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments which do not Plant and equipment qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the The initial cost of an item of plant or equipment is capitalised where income statement.
it is probable that future economic benets associated with the item Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured other contracts are not closely related to those of the host contract reliably.
The cost is then depreciated on a straight line basis over the and the whole contract is not carried at fair value, the derivative is items estimated useful working life.
No residual values are imputed separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with to any item of plant and equipment.
fair value movements reected within investment return.
Impairment policy Borrowings, including convertible bond The Group reviews the carrying value of its assets other than those Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction held at FVTPL at each balance sheet date.
If the carrying value of costs.
Borrowings classied as liabilities are subsequently stated at a financial asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced through amortised cost.
The difference between the net proceeds and the a charge to the income statement.
There must be objective redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events which borrowing period using the effective interest method.
have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset.
Impairment For a convertible bond which includes a cash settlement option is only recognised if the loss event has an impact on the estimated in lieu of the issue of shares on conversion, the conversion option is future cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets separated and recognised as a derivative liability.
It is revalued to that can be reliably estimated.
fair value at each reporting period with fair value gains and losses Non-financial assets which have an indefinite useful life are not taken through the income statement.
The remainder of the proceeds subjected to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
less attributable expenses is allocated to the value of the debt Assets which are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment portion of the convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount rate until extinguished on conversion or on maturity of the bond.
is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Income taxes Cash and cash equivalents Income tax Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is call with banks, treasury bills and other short term highly liquid recognised in the income statement except where it relates to investments with original maturities of three months or less.
an item which is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting for the period and any adjustment to the tax payable in respect The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in of previous periods.
foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses derivatives The total income tax expense for the period includes income tax such as foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap paid by Society in respect of UK life policyholder returns, which is not contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group uses hedge related to profits earned by equity holders for the period.
The income accounting, provided the prescribed criteria in IAS 39 are met, to tax charge in the income statement has therefore been apportioned recognise the offsetting effects of changes in the fair value or cash between the element attributable to policyholder returns and the ow of the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
The Groups principal uses of hedge accounting are to: element attributable to equity holders profits equity holder tax.
i recognise in shareholders equity the changes in the fair value of Deferred income tax derivatives designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet operation.
Any cumulative gains and or losses are recognised in liability method, on temporary differences between the carrying the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation: amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and ii defer in equity the changes in the fair value of derivatives the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is measured using designated as the hedge of a future cash ow attributable tax rates expected to apply when the related deferred income tax to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled, based transaction, or a rm commitment until the period in which the on tax rates and law which have been enacted or substantively future transaction is recognised or is no longer expected to enacted at the balance sheet date.
occur: and Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is iii hedge the fair value movements in loans due to interest rate probable that future taxable profits will be available against which and exchange rate uctuations.
Any gain or loss from the temporary differences can be utilised.
remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference income statement.
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in The relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged the foreseeable future or if it will, then it will not generate any item, together with the risk management objective and strategy incremental tax liability for the Group.
for undertaking the hedge transaction, are documented at the Deferred tax is provided at the incremental rate on the inception of the transaction.
The effectiveness of the hedge is undeclared surplus in Societys LTF represented by the Shareholder documented and monitored on an ongoing basis.
In 2006, no deferred tax was provided, on accounting is only applied for highly effective hedges between the grounds that, at the balance sheet date, no obligation to make 80% and 125% effectiveness with any ineffective portion of the gain or loss recognised in the income statement, within other a declaration of surplus existed and there was no expectation that such a declaration would occur.
expenses, in the current period.
70 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 71 Leases Share issue costs Where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are is retained by the lessor, leases are classied as operating leases.
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
An Payments made as lessees under operating leases net of any incremental share issue cost is one which would not have arisen if incentives from the lessor are charged to the income statement shares had not been issued.
on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Legal & General shares Employee benets Where any Group entity purchases the Companys equity share capital, Pension obligations the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental The Group operates a number of dened benefit and dened costs, is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders.
Where contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The assets such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of all UK dened benefit schemes are held in separate trustee of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to administered funds which are subject to regular actuarial valuation shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction every three years, updated by formal reviews at reporting dates.
costs and the related income tax effects.
Shares held on behalf of The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened employee share schemes are disclosed as such on the balance sheet.
benefit pension schemes is the present value of the dened benefit Where shares are cancelled under the share buyback obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan programme, the consideration paid, including any directly assets.
Plan assets exclude any insurance contracts issued by the attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable Group.
The dened benefit obligation is actuarially calculated each to shareholders.
As required by Companies Act 1985, the equivalent year using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of of the nominal value of shares cancelled is transferred to a capital the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the redemption reserve.
The discount rate is based on market Dividend recognition yields of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to as a liability in the period in which the dividends are authorised and maturity which approximate to those of the related pension liability.
are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Final dividends are Where the unallocated divisible surplus or equity holders funds accrued when approved by the Companys shareholders at a are affected as a result of actuarial gains and losses on the dened general meeting and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
benefit pension scheme, the charge or credit is not recognised in the income statement but through the statement of recognised Fiduciary activities income and expense SORIE.
Assets and income arising from duciary activities, together with The Group pays contractual contributions in respect of dened associated commitments to return such assets to customers, are not included in these financial statements.
Where the Group acts contribution schemes.
The Group has no further payment obligations in a duciary capacity, for instance as a trustee or agent, it has once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are no contractual rights over the assets concerned.
recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent Provisions that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable Share-based payments that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the The fair value at the date of grant of the equity instrument is amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects recognised as an expense, spread over the vesting period of the a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance instrument.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact of but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Group any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments which benets to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity.
On vesting or Foreign currency translation exercise, the difference between the expense charged to the Foreign currency transactions income statement and the actual cost to the Group is transferred Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional to retained earnings.
Where new shares are issued, the proceeds currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the received are credited to share capital and share premium.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment Share capital and employee scheme shares in which these entities operate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Equity instruments are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual in equity as qualifying cash ow or net investment hedges.
interest in the net assets of an entity.
It follows that a financial instrument is treated as equity if: Overseas subsidiaries there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other The assets and liabilities of all of the Groups foreign operations are financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, at the on unfavourable terms: and closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
The income and expenses the instrument is either a non-derivative which contains no for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates.
contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares, On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of or is a derivative which will be settled only by the Group the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other exchanging a xed amount of cash or other financial assets, currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, for a xed number of its own equity instruments.
are taken to a separate component of shareholders equity.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 72 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Revised to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements effective 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued from 1 January 2009.
The revision is aimed at improving users Investment return ability to analyse and compare the information given in The reporting of investment return comprises investment income, financial statements.
The impact of this standard will be unrealised gains and losses from financial investments held at FVTPL reviewed in 2008. and realised gains and losses from all financial assets.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rent.
Dividends IFRS 8 introduces a new conceptual requirement that are accrued on an ex-dividend basis.
Interest and rent are included reportable segments should be formed on the same basis as is on an accruals basis.
Interest income for financial assets which are not used internally by senior management for evaluating operating classied as FVTPL is recognised using the effective interest method.
The impact of this standard will be reviewed in 2008.
Operational income and expenses Operational income comprises fee income from estate agency Revised IAS 23, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009. operations, agency fee income relating to distribution services The revision requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs and any margin paid on written business acquired in a period.
directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Operational income is accounted for when due.
production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset Other expenses comprise primarily the expenses incurred in with the removal of the option to immediately expense those estate agency operations, institutional fund management and retail costs.
The Group considers that this amendment will have an investment business, together with unallocated corporate expenses.
immaterial impact on the financial statements.
Other costs are accounted for as they arise.
Revised IFRS 3, Business combinations effective from 1 July 2009.
The standard continues to apply the acquisition method Earnings per share to business combinations, with some significant changes e. g. Earnings per share all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income attributable value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of subsequently re-measured at fair value through income.
ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding employee scheme Goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of net shares.
For this purpose, net income is dened as the profit after tax assets or may include goodwill related to the minority interest.
derived from continuing operations, or as the profit after tax derived All transaction costs will be expensed.
The requirements of this from both continuing and discontinued operations.
standard will be considered for any future business acquisitions.
Diluted earnings per share Revised IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number effective from 1 July 2009.
This standard requires the effect of all of ordinary shares in issue, excluding employee scheme shares, is transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary equity if there is no change in control.
It also species the shares, such as share options granted to employees.
Potential or accounting when control is lost any remaining interest in the contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.
The Group does not consider that this amendment will result in any significant impact on the financial statements.
Segment reporting IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions The Groups segments are based on the dominant source and claries the appropriate accounting treatment for share-based nature of the Groups risks and returns and the manner in which payments in single entity financial statements.
The interpretation the Groups internal organisational and management structure is therefore not applicable to the Group financial statements.
operates and reects its system of internal financial reporting to the IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements effective from Group Board and Group Chief Executive.
Transactions between the 1 January 2008, has been issued to address the accounting business segments are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
by operators for public-to-private service concession The primary segmental information is presented for business segments as this reects the dominant source and nature of the arrangements.
The interpretation applies only to public-toprivate sector concessions and therefore has no impact on Groups risks and returns.
Secondary information is presented on geographic segments.
IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective from 1 July Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards 2008, claries the accounting for where sales of goods or services that are not yet effective are made together with a customer loyalty incentive.
The Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing interpretation is not relevant to the Group financial statements.
standards have been published which are mandatory for the IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a dened benefit asset, minimum Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or funding requirements and their interaction effective from later periods but which the Group has not early adopted, as follows: 1 January 2008.
The interpretation gives guidance on how to Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payment: Vesting assess the limit in IAS 19, Employee Benets, on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains conditions and cancellations effective from 1 January 2008.
The amendments clarify what vesting conditions are, and how this limit, also referred to as the asset ceiling test may be inuenced by a minimum funding requirement.
As the dened specify the accounting treatment for cancellations of granted equity instruments.
The anticipated impact is expected to benefit schemes are in deficit the change therefore has no impact on the financial statements.
72 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 73 LGPL was capitalised using 1.3bn of Society shareholder capital, 2.
CAPITAL REVIEW 400m of this was represented by subordinated debt 200m upper a As at 31 December 2007 tier II, 200m lower tier II and 900m by equity.
The reinsurance was effected on arms length terms resulting in an initial regulatory loss Share buyback programme in LGPL.
Further funds of 571m were injected from Societys LTF into In July 2007, the Group announced a 1bn return of capital to LGPLs LTF by means of a contingent loan to cover this loss.
shareholders through an on-market share buyback programme.
Prior to the capitalisation of LGPL, the intra-group subordinated At 31 December 2007, 241,207,267 ordinary shares had been debt capital of 602m attributed to SRC was repaid to Group Plc acquired under the buyback programme for cancellation for total and an equivalent amount was lent to Society shareholder capital consideration of 320m.
The buyback programme has continued on a subordinated basis 301m upper tier II, 301m lower tier II.
and as at 17 March 2008, a total of 439,715,831 ordinary shares have The corporate restructuring had no impact on the IFRS profit been acquired for a total consideration of 571m.
The movement in liabilities and assets Conversion of Legal & General Pensions Limited LGPL to an Insurance between Society and LGPL was eliminated in the Group Special Purpose Vehicle ISPV consolidation in accordance with the Group accounting policies.
On 1 November 2007, LGPL was converted to an ISPV and repaid However, there was a 171m deferred tax benefit for 2006, which subordinated debt of 400m to Society.
increased the IFRS profit after tax see Note 12.
This was the result There has been no impact on the IFRS net assets or profit before of an initial tax loss in LGPL.
tax as a result of the ISPV conversion.
The corporate restructuring reduced Societys regulatory surplus capital by 0.5bn 2006 total surplus: 4.9bn and the Insurance Societys long term fund restructure Groups Directive IGD regulatory surplus by 0.5bn 2006 total In December 2007, the Group implemented a new capital structure surplus: 2.1bn, primarily due to the requirement to hold solvency for Society.
margins in both Society and LGPL for the reinsured business.
These A key component was the removal of the transfer formula which amounts were extracted from draft regulatory returns.
has limited the annual amount of distributions from Societys long term fund since 1996.
As part of the restructure, it was also Implementation of changes to FSA reporting and capital rules announced that the 1996 Sub-fund 321m was merged into the Policy Statement 06 14 Shareholder Retained Capital SRC.
Societys Board of Directors has In 2006, the FSA introduced a more realistic reserving framework for undertaken to initially maintain 500m of assets within Society to certain non profit business.
As a result, the Group changed its support the with-profits business.
The amount of the commitment will insurance assumptions as detailed in Note 35.
This led to a reduction gradually reduce to zero over a period not exceeding ten years.
in the non-participating insurance contract liabilities and regulatory The removal of the formula and the merger of the 1996 Sub-fund reserves required for term assurance business of 641m and an with the SRC have removed significant dividing lines between the elimination of the deferred acquisition cost asset relating to term pools of shareholder capital within Society.
From 2007, all the assets assurance business amounting to 145m see Note 22 ii, resulting in supporting the UK non profit life and pensions businesses have been an increase to IFRS profit after tax of 496m.
aggregated for reporting purposes and designated Society The change to the reserving framework also resulted in a Shareholder Capital.
This comprises the SRC including the merged consequent small reduction in the long term insurance capital 1996 Sub-fund and all Societys shareholder capital held outside the requirement.
The associated financial reinsurance previously in long term fund LTF and in LGPL.
place to finance these reserves was terminated and no credit was For 2007, 1.7bn has been transferred from the SRC into the taken for implicit items in the regulatory balance sheet, of which shareholder capital held outside Societys LTF.
There was no incremental approximately 240m related to term assurance.
The net impact on tax in respect of this transfer.
Deferred tax is provided at the Societys regulatory capital surplus of the changes to reserving was incremental rate on the undeclared surplus in Societys LTF an increase of approximately 125m.
For 2007, the incremental rate in respect of In addition, the FSA removed the requirement for Society to the undeclared surplus of 2,047m was zero.
At 31 December 2006, no calculate a resilience capital requirement and changed the deferred tax was provided, on the grounds that, at the balance sheet calculation of the With-profits Insurance Capital Component which date, no obligation to make a declaration of surplus actually existed resulted in a decrease in Societys capital resources requirement and there was no expectation that such a declaration would occur.
The merger of the 1996 Sub-fund into the SRC has increased IFRS profit before tax by 321m reecting the transfer from unallocated Review of annuity investment policy divisible surplus to shareholders equity.
During 2006, Society undertook a review of its asset liability matching policy for annuity business.
Property assets backing annuity liabilities b As at 31 December 2006 were replaced with corporate bonds and Society entered into The impacts from restructuring and capital changes reported last ination swaps to mitigate negative ination risk see Note 19.
As a year are set out below.
result, a closer match between assets and liabilities was achieved.
Corporate restructure Additionally, the margin within the reserves to cover an interest rate On 31 December 2006, the non-linked non profit pensions and mismatch was reviewed and reduced.
These actions reduced the annuity business of Society was ceded to a new, wholly owned, regulatory reserves for Society, and increased the IFRS profit after reinsurance company, LGPL.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 74 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION This supplementary operating profit information provides further analysis of the results reported under IFRS and we believe gives shareholders a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
IFRS supplementary operating profit is one of the Groups key performance indicators and previously included the formula transfer from Societys long term fund.
Following the restructure of Societys LTF see Note 2, operating profit for UK life and pensions business now represents the net capital invested released from the non profit business, a smoothed investment return on all Society shareholders assets, including those within the LTF, and the with-profits transfer.
There has been no change in the denition of the with-profits transfer and operating profit from the overseas subsidiaries remain unchanged.
The change in the denition of UK life and pensions operating profit had the effect of increasing 2006 reported operating profit by 968m.
profit before tax and shareholders equity is unaffected by this change.
Investment return on non profit business is calculated on a smoothed basis using EEV assumptions applied to the average balance of Society shareholder capital invested assets including interest bearing intra-group balances calculated on a quarterly basis.
Operating profit also includes a longer term investment return on the shareholders funds in our General insurance, Investment management and Netherlands operations.
Previously, for UK life and pensions business, operating profit represented: the distribution of profit relating to non profit and shareholder net worth, grossed up for tax.
The distribution comprised: 7% of the embedded value of the SRC and 1996 Sub-fund shareholder net worth SNW adjusted to remove the impact from the contingent loan between SRC and LGPL, and the SNW of LGPL: and 5% of the embedded value of the non profit business adjusted to remove the impact from the contingent loan between SRC and LGPL: the subordinated debt interest on the intra-group subordinated debt included within the SRC, until it was repaid in December 2006: the shareholders share of the with-profits surplus recognised in the year, grossed up for tax.
i Reconciliation between operating profit and profit from ordinary activities after income tax 2007 2006 Restated Notes m m From continuing operations Life and pensions ii 643 1,621 Investment management iii 155 133 General insurance iv 67 9 Other operational income v 73 43 Operating profit 658 1,720 Variation from longer term investment return 90 231 Property expense income attributable to minority interests 6 67 Release of 1996 Sub-fund 321 profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders 883 2,018 Tax attributable to equity holders 165 387 profit from ordinary activities after tax 718 1,631 74 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION continued ii Life and pensions operating profit 2007 2006 Restated m m Net capital released from non profit business 161 1,255 Investment return 317 213 Other expenses 27 17 Non profit business 451 1,451 With-profits business 106 95 UK 557 1,546 USA 59 58 Netherlands 11 7 France 16 10 643 1,621 Further details relating to the impact of the 2007 and 2006 significant events can be found in Note 2.
The 2006 profits were enhanced by 496m arising from the adoption of PS06 14. iii Investment management operating profit 2007 2006 m m Managed pension funds 103 96 Private equity 4 Property 6 6 Retail investments 8 11 1 Other income 38 16 155 133 1.
In 2007, Other income includes 23m of profits arising from the provision of investment management services at market referenced rates charged to the Groups UK life and pensions businesses.
iv General insurance operating profit, underwriting result and combined operating ratios Operating UnderCombined Operating UnderCombined profit writing operating profit writing operating loss result ratio loss result ratio 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m % m m % From continuing operations 1 Household 86 101 145 9 21 111 2 Other business 19 15 74 18 13 89 67 86 131 9 8 105 1.
Household business in 2007 includes a loss of 76m net of reinsurance as a result of ood related claims in June and July 2007.
Other business in 2007 includes 6m profit following the withdrawal from the healthcare business in the first quarter.
The combined operating ratio is: Net incurred claims Expenses Net commission x 100 Net earned premiums Net written premiums www.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 76 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION continued v Other operational income 2007 2006 Restated m m Shareholders other income 1 Investment return on ordinary shareholders equity 51 65 2 Interest expense 119 106 68 41 3 Other operations 1 Unallocated corporate and development expenses 6 2 73 43 1.
Investment return on shareholders equity excludes investment return on Society shareholder capital, which is included in UK life and pensions.
Interest expense relates to average borrowings, excluding non-recourse nancing see Note 36.
Principally the regulated mortgage network and Cofunds.
vi Earnings per share profit Tax profit Earnings loss charge loss Number per 1 before tax credit after tax of shares share 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Notes m m m m p Operating profit from continuing operations i 658 196 462 6,444 7.17 Variation from longer term investment return i 90 31 59 0.91 Release of 1996 Sub-fund 321 321 4.98 2 profit attributable to equity holders EPS 889 165 724 6,444 11.24 Earnings profit Tax profit Number per 1 before tax charge after tax of shares share 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Restated Restated Restated Restated Notes m m m m p Operating profit from continuing operations i 1,720 329 1,391 6,483 21.45 Variation from longer term investment return i 231 58 173 2.67 2 profit attributable to equity holders EPS 1,951 387 1,564 6,483 24.12 The number of shares in issue at 31 December 2007 was 6,296,321,160 2006: 6,532,261,961.
Weighted average number of shares.
76 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Group is organised into three main business segments: Long term business Investment management General insurance Other operations comprise estate agencies, regulated mortgage network, corporate expenses and assets held outside the three main business segments, none of which constitutes a separately reportable segment.
As a result of Societys long term fund restructure detailed in Note 2, the Society shareholder capital held outside of the LTF has been reclassied in 2007 as attributable to long term business.
The comparatives have been restated accordingly.
i Income statement analysed by business segments primary disclosures Elimination of inter Long term Investment General Other segment business management insurance operations amounts Total For the year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 6,540 11,379 308 233 258 18,202 Total expenses from continuing operations 5,793 11,169 384 319 258 17,407 profit from continuing operations after income tax 719 109 55 55 718 Inter segment revenue 40 79 139 258 Elimination of inter Long term Other segment business Investment General operations amounts Restated management insurance Restated Restated Total For the year ended 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 8,540 12,013 315 349 251 20,966 Total expenses from continuing operations 6,818 11,849 314 307 251 19,037 profit from continuing operations after income tax 1,483 93 1 54 1,631 Inter segment revenue 30 40 2 179 251 ii Balance sheet analysed by business segments primary disclosures Elimination of inter Long term Investment General Other segment business management insurance operations amounts Total As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Total assets 75,279 204,313 473 3,266 2,046 281,285 Total liabilities 70,449 203,550 359 3,349 2,046 275,661 Total equity 4,830 763 114 83 5,624 Elimination of inter Long term Other segment business Investment General operations amounts Restated management insurance Restated Restated Total As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Total assets 72,208 144,725 534 2,645 2,247 217,865 Total liabilities 67,133 144,000 365 2,775 2,247 212,026 Total equity 5,075 725 169 130 5,839 www.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 78 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued iii Revenue and assets by geographic segments secondary disclosures Elimination of inter segment UK USA Netherlands France amounts Total 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 17,204 338 290 373 3 18,202 Total assets 274,975 2,588 1,663 2,110 51 281,285 Elimination of inter segment UK USA Netherlands France amounts Total 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 20,020 329 300 319 2 20,966 Total assets 212,185 2,478 1,415 1,807 20 217,865 iv Gross written premiums 2007 2006 m m From continuing operations UK life and pensions participating business 382 376 UK life and pensions non-participating business 3,152 2,691 Total UK life and pensions 3,534 3,067 USA 345 347 Netherlands 259 266 France 348 283 Total life and pensions 4,486 3,963 General insurance Household 255 240 Other business 52 83 Total General insurance 307 323 Total gross written premiums 4,793 4,286 Life and pensions gross written premiums by destination are not materially different from gross premiums written by origin.
The General insurance premiums arise wholly in the UK.
78 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
NEW BUSINESS GROSS OF REINSURANCE New business is presented below for all long term business written by the Group including both insurance and investment contracts.
New annual premiums arise where the terms and conditions of a policy anticipate more than one premium being paid over its lifetime: new single premiums comprise all premiums which are not categorised as new annual premiums.
Annual Single Annual Single 2007 2007 2006 2006 Restated Restated m m m m UK risk and savings Protection 223 231 1 Annuities 2,045 1,818 Total UK risk 223 2,045 231 1,818 Unit linked bonds 2,512 2,612 Pensions, stakeholder and other non profit 141 1,122 126 817 With-profits savings 130 983 117 744 Total UK savings 271 4,617 243 4,173 Total UK risk and savings 494 6,662 474 5,991 International USA 45 42 Netherlands 11 157 12 170 France 17 248 12 195 567 7,067 540 6,356 Investment management 2 Core retail investments ISAs UK 14 437 15 380 Unit trusts UK 7 962 2 683 France 24 25 Institutional fund management 3 UK managed pension funds Pooled funds 49,460 17,878 Segregated funds 2,603 608 52,063 18,486 Limited partnerships 171 99 2 Other funds 2 2,195 3 7,445 23 55,852 20 27,118 Total new business 590 62,919 560 33,474 Annual Single Annual Single 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m Comprising: Insurance contracts Life and pensions Participating 6 710 7 608 Non-participating 295 1,681 296 1,493 Investment contracts Life and pensions Participating 5 248 6 286 Non-participating 261 4,428 231 3,969 Investment management 23 55,852 20 27,118 Total new business 590 62,919 560 33,474 1.
For 2007 reporting, with-profits annuity business has been recategorised from with-profits to annuities and 2006 comparatives restated.
This business amounted to 47m of single premiums 2006: 83m.
UK core retail investments excludes institutional investments which are disclosed with segregated property, property partnerships, private equity partnerships and institutional clients funds as part of Other funds within Institutional fund management.
Other funds comprise new business from Legal & General Investment Management 2007: 388m: 2006: 2,065m and from Legal & General Retail Investments 2007: 1,809m: 2006: 5,383m.
Excludes 19.4bn 2006: 4.4bn which is held on a temporary basis, generally as part of portfolio reconstructions.
The UK pooled managed funds of 49.5bn 2006: 17.9bn reported above are classied as fund management contracts.
The increase in the fair value of the investment contract liabilities is shown in the income statement.
There are two classes of business where there is a material difference between gross and net of reinsurance new business: term assurance, which is 51.5% reinsured 2006: 51.9%, and permanent health insurance, which is 26.3% reinsured 2006: 24.5%.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 80 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
INVESTMENT RETURN 2007 2006 m m Financial investment return 13,109 15,610 Property investment return 116 962 Investment return 13,225 16,572 Included within financial investment return is interest income on AFS investments of 71m 2006: 74m and 396m 2006: 216m on loans and receivables.
Net gains excluding interest and dividend income of 4,914m 2006: 9,010m arose on financial investments designated as FVTPL and 178m 2006: 120 m arose on derivative contracts classied as HFT.
Financial investment return includes dividends, interest received and fair value gains and losses, excluding fair value movements attributable to AFS investments.
Property investment return includes 346m 2006: 345m of rental income.
7 NET CLAIMS AND CHANGE IN INSURANCE LIABILITIES Long term General Long term General insurance insurance Total insurance insurance Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 From continuing operations m m m m m m Claims paid gross 3,922 255 4,177 3,603 206 3,809 reinsurance recoveries 269 3 272 254 4 258 3,653 252 3,905 3,349 202 3,551 Change in insurance liabilities gross 255 35 290 1,866 5 1,871 reinsurance recoveries 66 7 73 1,381 1,381 Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 3,842 280 4,122 2,864 197 3,061 In 2007, the change in long term insurance liabilities includes 214m relating to strengthening of assumptions for annuitant mortality on existing business partly offset by favourable investment variances of 134m.
In 2006, the change in insurance liabilities includes the financial effect of PS06 14 which is described in Notes 2 and 35.
8 AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2007 2006 m m Remuneration receivable by the Companys auditor for the audit of the consolidated and Company financial statements 1.1 1.0 Remuneration receivable by the Companys auditor and its associates for the supply of other services to the Company and its associates, including remuneration for the audit of the financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.4 2.5 2.4 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.5 Tax services 0.6 0.8 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into 0.1 1 Other services not covered above 1.4 1.3 Total remuneration 5.0 5.1 1.
For 2007, Other services include 0.7m 2006: 0.6m in respect of accounting and regulatory advice, project management services and assurance procedures in relation to the capital review.
In addition to the above, fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for audit services supplied to the Companys associated pension schemes amounted to 0.1m 2006: 0.1m.
80 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION 2007 2006 Average number of staff employed during the year: UK 9,296 9,051 Europe 363 332 USA 408 359 Worldwide employees 10,067 9,742 2007 2006 Notes m m Salaries 330 303 Social security costs 43 38 Share-based incentive awards 18 15 Dened benefit pension costs 38 39 41 Dened contribution pension costs 38 21 17 Total 451 414 10.
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 2007 2006 Notes m m The following items have been included in arriving at profit before income tax: Depreciation on plant and equipment 16 20 15 Amortisation of purchased interest in long term businesses 21 3 7 Operating lease rentals 25 19 Reinsurance commissions 14 15 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties which generate rental income 16 25 During the year, the Group entered into prospective reinsurance arrangements which resulted in a profit of 145m 2006: 192m.
This profit has been reected in the consolidated income statement for the year.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND EXCHANGE RATES profit for the year includes foreign exchange gains and losses on financial instruments.
The profit for the year also includes foreign exchange losses of 268m 2006: gains of 243m arising on conversion of monetary assets and liabilities to functional currencies.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 82 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 2007 2006 m m Current tax Current tax for the year 261 280 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 21 Total current tax 263 301 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 186 3 Total income tax expense 77 298 Represented by: Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 88 89 Income tax attributable to equity holders 165 387 Total income tax expense 77 298 The Group uses estimates to apportion the income tax expense of Society between the elements attributable to policyholder returns and equity holders profits.
The net equity holders profit from UK long term business has borne tax at the effective equity holder tax rate.
For participating business and certain non profit business this is sufciently close to the standard rate of UK corporation tax for that rate to be used in the financial statements.
For the remaining non profit business, the effective equity holder tax rate is used.
For equity holders funds within Societys LTF, the equity holder income tax is the income tax attributed to the return on those funds.
The balance of income taxes associated with UK long term business profits is then classied as income tax attributable to policyholders returns.
There is no denitive method of calculating the effective equity holder tax rate.
A number of alternative methods are consistently used, in order to assess the validity of using the standard rate of UK corporation tax.
For international long term business the equity holder income tax is the total income tax in respect of profits earned from that business.
For 2007, the Group has rened the method of estimating the apportionment of the income tax expense.
If the 2007 method had been applied to the 2006 consolidated income statement, the profit from continuing operations before income tax attributable to equity holders would have reduced to 1,805m, the income tax attributable to policyholder returns would have increased to 124m and the income tax attributable to equity holders reduced to 174m.
The total income tax expense, and profit from ordinary activities after income tax, would have been unchanged.
If the 2006 method had been applied to 2007, the profit before income tax, profit from continuing operations before income tax attributable to equity holders, total income tax expense and income tax attributable to equity holders, would all have been increased by 138m.
The profit from ordinary activities after income tax would have been unchanged.
The tax assessed for the year is lower 2006: lower than the standard corporation tax rate applicable to companies operating in the UK of 30% 2006: 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 Notes m m Income tax calculated at standard UK corporation tax rate 239 579 Effects of: Income tax relating to policyholder returns 62 62 Disallowable expenditure 5 3 Non taxable income including UK dividends 12 11 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 10 Differences between taxable and accounting investment gains losses 15 13 Overseas tax 1 4 No tax in respect of property expense income attributable to minority interests 2 20 Higher lower tax on SRC investment return 22 15 Difference between tax relief and accounting expense for share releases and option exercises 3 6 Difference between tax and accounting losses 2 171 No tax in respect of merger of 1996 Sub-fund with SRC 96 Reduction in UK corporate tax rate 9 Total income tax expense 77 298 The rate of tax for 2006 reected the impact of the net capital released from non profit business into profit of 1,380m on which no current or deferred tax arose.
The effect of this is within the reconciling item Income tax relating to policyholder returns.
82 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE continued 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax recognised directly in equity Relating to net gains or losses recognised directly in equity 10 4 Exchange losses 21 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 10 17 Deferred tax is provided at the incremental rate on the undeclared surplus in Societys LTF represented by the Shareholder Retained Capital SRC.
For 2007, the incremental rate in respect of the undeclared surplus of 2,047m was zero.
At 31 December 2006, no deferred tax was provided, on the grounds that, at the balance sheet date, no obligation to make a declaration of surplus actually existed and there was no expectation that such a declaration would occur.
The maximum amount of incremental tax which would have crystallised on such a declaration of surplus at 31 December 2006 was estimated to be 717m.
DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS Per share Total Per share Total 2007 2007 2006 2006 pm pm Ordinary share dividends paid in the year Prior year final dividend 3.81 248 3.63 236 Current year interim dividend 1.87 121 1.74 113 5.68 369 5.37 349 1 Ordinary share dividend proposed 4.10 247 3.81 248 1.
The dividend proposed has not been included as a liability in the balance sheet.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share have been calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and the profits for the financial year.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average numbers of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Based on profit attributable to equity holders Number Earnings Number Earnings 1 1 profit of shares per share profit of shares per share 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m p m m p profit attributable to equity holders 724 6,444 11.24 1,564 6,483 24.12 Net shares under options allocable for no further consideration 34 0.06 46 0.17 Diluted profit attributable to equity holders 724 6,478 11.18 1,564 6,529 23.95 1.
The share buyback programme has continued during 2008 see Note 37.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The fair values of the share grants made during the year have been calculated using the following assumptions: SAYE SAYE PSP Award date 10 Apr 07 24 Aug 07 25 Apr 07 Weighted average share price 163p 138p 157p Weighted average exercise price 119p 110p n a Expected volatility 22 33% 22 32% n a Expected life 3 7 years 3 7 years 3 years Risk free investment rate 5.2 5.4% 5.2 5.4% n a Dividend yield 3.7% 3.6% n a Expected volatility is a measure of the tendency of a security price to uctuate in a random, unpredictable manner.
Expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous ten years.
The expected life has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 84 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued The Group provides the following equity settled share-based long term incentive plans for directors and eligible employees: Savings related share option scheme SAYE The SAYE allows employees to enter into a regular savings contract over either three, five or seven years, coupled with a corresponding option over shares of the Group.
The grant price is equal to 80% of the quoted market price of the Group shares on the invitation date.
Options are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Options 2007 Options 2006 2007 p 2006 p Outstanding at 1 January 34,935,949 7746,596,785 63 Granted during the year 7,672,510 11413,066,802 109 Forfeited during the year 1,098,923 90 749,812 81 Exercised during the year 3,305,251 80 19,515,404 57 Expired during the year 2,063,948 110 4,462,422 107 Outstanding at 31 December 36,140,337 8234,935,949 77 Exercisable at 31 December 201,854 82 186,023 90 The fair values of the SAYE options granted during the year have been estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
The assumptions used in the model are shown above.
The weighted average fair value of each SAYE option granted during the year was 45p 2006: 35p.
The Group recognised total expenses of 2m 2006: 2m related to the SAYE scheme.
The intrinsic value of vested SAYE options was nil 2006: nil at the year end.
Intrinsic value of a share option is calculated as the current share price less the option price.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of two years.
Company share option scheme CSOP Executive share option scheme ESOS The CSOP, approved by HMRC, and unapproved ESOS were designed to provide a long term incentive to directors and managers of the Group.
The number of options granted is based on the managers level, salary and performance.
The options have a ten year life but do not normally vest in the first three years.
In order to exercise the options, the Legal & General Total Shareholder Return TSR must exceed the median TSR of the FTSE 100 for a period of at least three years commencing on the date of the grant.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Options 2007 Options 2006 2007 p 2006 p Outstanding at 1 January 41,352,016 13654,394,602 131 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 696,798 149 3,941,409 133 Exercised during the year 1,961,215 90 5,324,625 79 Expired during the year 328,914 166 3,776,552 153 Outstanding at 31 December 38,365,089 13841,352,016 136 Exercisable at 31 December 38,365,089 13839,667,016 138 The fair values of the options granted under the CSOP ESOS are estimated using a binomial model, reecting the historic exercise patterns.
The assumptions used in the model are disclosed on page 83.
No options were granted in 2007 or 2006 under these schemes.
The Group recognised total expenses of nil 2006: nil related to the CSOP and ESOS.
The intrinsic value of vested share options at the year end was 4m 2006: 8m.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of four years.
Share bonus plan SBP SBP awards granted before 2005 gave the recipient the right to receive a xed number of shares three years after the grant date.
SBP grants, from 2005, award restricted shares which vest with employees three years after the grant date.
From 2005, SBP grant recipients are entitled to both vote and receive dividends.
In both cases the rights associated with SBP grants are normally forfeited on leaving the Group.
The fair value of the shares awarded has been calculated as the market value on the grant date.
For pre-2005 awards, this has been adjusted by the estimated present value of future dividends to which the holder is not entitled.
During the year, 6,670,313 shares 2006: 5,391,862 shares were awarded under the SBP.
The weighted average fair value of the shares issued was 155p 2006: 140p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 7m 2006: 5m relating to the SBP.
84 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Performance share plan PSP Conditional shares can be granted to top managers under the PSP, based upon individual and Company performance.
Under the PSP, the number of performance shares transferred to the individual at the end of the three year vesting period is dependant on Legal & Generals TSR compared with that of the other FTSE 100 companies at the date of the award, measured over the vesting period.
The minimum number of performance shares is transferred if the TSR is at median.
The number increases proportionately to a maximum of four times the performance shares at or above twentieth position.
The fair value of the granted performance shares has been calculated using a probabilistic model which incorporates the market-based performance conditions within the scheme.
During the year, 1,773,775 performance shares 2006: 2,311,828 were awarded.
The weighted average fair value of each award issued was 306p 2006: 279p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 5m 2006: 5m relating to the PSP during the year.
Employee share plan ESP Under the ESP, approved by HMRC, permanent UK employees may elect to purchase Group shares from the market at the prevailing market price on a monthly basis.
The Group supplements the number of shares purchased by matching the first 20 of the employees contributions.
From time to time, the Group may make a grant of free shares.
Both the free and matching shares must be held in Trust for three years before they may vest to the employee.
After vesting, the shares remain within the Trust until they are transferred to the employee or the employee leaves the Group.
The Trust is consolidated into the results of the Group with the unvested shares disclosed as employee scheme shares.
The fair value of the granted shares is equal to the market value at the grant date.
During the year, 4,127,529 shares 2006: 4,086,631 shares were granted under the ESP.
The weighted average fair value of the shares issued was 148p 2006: 136p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 4m 2006: 3m relating to the ESP during the year.
Total recognised expense The total recognised expense relating to share-based payments in 2007 was 18m 2006: 15m before tax, all of which related to equity settled share schemes.
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2007 2006 m m Cost As at 1 January 104 101 Additions 60 28 Disposals 17 25 As at 31 December 147 104 Depreciation As at 1 January 61 69 Provided during the year 20 15 Disposals 13 23 As at 31 December 68 61 Net book value at 31 December 79 43 17.
2006 gures have been restated to reect a change in categorisation between linked and other.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 86 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Linked Other Total Linked Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Notes m m m m m m Financial investments at fair value designated as: Fair value through profit or loss 222,727 35,507 258,234 162,451 36,838 199,289 Available-for-sale 2 1,440 1,442 1,255 1,255 Held for trading 560 134 694 37 39 76 Financial investments at fair value i 223,289 37,081 260,370 162,488 38,132 200,620 Loans and receivables ii 1,204 144 1,348 567 243 810 Total financial investments 224,493 37,225 261,718 163,055 38,375 201,430 Expected to be settled within 12 months 41,988 24,373 Expected to be settled after 12 months 219,730 177,057 Investment risks on linked assets are borne by the policyholders.
The remaining risks are outlined in the risk management note see Note 49.
Financial investments include 164m 2006: 75m of debt securities pledged as collateral against derivative liabilities.
The assets used as collateral are AAA rated bonds 2006: AAA rated Supranational Bonds having a residual maturity of over 21 years 2006: 15 years.
The Group is entitled to receive all of the cash ows from the asset during the period when it is pledged as collateral.
Further, there is no obligation to pay or transfer these cash ows to another entity.
The Group can decide to substitute an asset which is designated as collateral at any time, provided the relevant terms and conditions of the International Swap Dealers Association agreement are met.
Financial investments have been allocated between those expected to be settled within 12 months and after 12 months in line with the expected settlement of the backed liabilities.
Assets in excess of the insurance and investment contract liabilities have been classied as expected to be settled after 12 months.
47m 2006: 60m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the fair value losses on these investments.
Property investments which are held via partnerships or unit trust vehicles are also included within equity securities.
7 m 2006: 198m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the movement in fair value of these investments.
Included within linked equity securities are 335m 2006: 308m of debt instruments which incorporate an embedded derivative linked to the value of the Groups share price.
ii Loans and receivables Linked Other Total Linked Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Deposits with credit institutions 1,204 73 1,277 567 178 745 Policy loans 7070 63 63 Other loans 11 2 2 Total loans and receivables 1,204 144 1,348 567 243 810 There are no material differences between the carrying values reected above and the fair value of these loans.
86 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
DERIVATIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Contract Fair values notional 1 amount Assets Liabilities 2007 2007 2007 m m m Non-linked derivatives: Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 1,065 18 28 Interest rate contracts held for trading 5,273 51 204 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 595 1 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 441 43 39 Equity index derivatives held for trading 162 4 Currency swaps held for trading 10 Credit derivatives held for trading 1,824 16 34 Other derivatives held for trading 51 Total non-linked derivatives 134 307 Linked derivatives: Ination rate contracts held for trading 6,364 175 13 Interest rate contracts held for trading 11,530 334 187 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 1 216 Credit derivatives held for trading 1,463 15 16 Ination swap contracts held for trading 3,946 19 5 Equity index derivatives held for trading 907 15 4 Other derivatives held for trading 51 Total linked derivatives 560 441 Total derivative assets and liabilities 694 748 Contract Fair values notional 1 amount Assets Liabilities 2006 2006 2006 m m m Non-linked derivatives: Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 411 17 Interest rate contracts held for trading 2,029 30 112 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 446 1 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 405 6 1 Equity index derivatives held for trading 142 2 Other derivatives held for trading 47 1 Total non-linked derivatives 40 132 Linked derivatives: Ination swap contracts held for trading 2,574 2 8 Interest rate contracts held for trading 530 9 25 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 23 8 Equity index derivatives held for trading 355 3 4 Total linked derivatives 37 45 Total derivative assets and liabilities 77 177 1.
Derivative liabilities are reported in the balance sheet within Other creditors.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 88 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
DERIVATIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued The notional amounts of some derivative instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet.
However, these amounts do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash ows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The contractual undiscounted cash ows in relation to non-linked derivatives have the following maturity prole.
Linked derivatives have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to liquidity risks.
Forward foreign exchange contracts Net investment hedges The Group hedges part of the foreign exchange translation exposure on its net investment in its overseas subsidiaries, using forward foreign exchange contracts.
It recognises the portion of the gain or loss which is determined to be an effective hedge through reserves within shareholders equity, along with the gain or loss on revaluation of the foreign subsidiaries.
Interest rate swap contracts Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge xed rate loans in particular to hedge the movement in the fair value of a loan due to interest rates.
Fair value gains and losses arising from fair value hedging relationships are as follows: Fair value gains losses on hedging instruments were 9m 2006: 21 m. Fair value losses gains on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk were 10 m 2006: 21m.
Derivative contracts held for trading The Group uses certain derivative contracts which are effective hedges of economic exposures in accordance with the Groups risk management policy, but for various reasons are not designated within a formal hedge accounting relationship.
Therefore, these contracts must be designated as held for trading and gains and losses on these contracts are recognised immediately in the income statement.
88 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
REINSURERS SHARE OF CONTRACT LIABILITIES Linked Other Total Linked Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Notes m m m m m m Reinsurers share of: Insurance contract liabilities 31 5 1,317 1,322 5 1,249 1,254 Investment contract liabilities 32 116 92 208 139 88 227 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 121 1,409 1,530 144 1,337 1,481 21.
PURCHASED INTEREST IN LONG TERM BUSINESSES 2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 23 25 Amortisation charged to income 3 7 Net exchange difference 2 Other 1 7 As at 31 December 19 23 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 154 154 To be amortised within 12 months 3 4 To be amortised after 12 months 16 19 The net book value of purchased interest in long term businesses represents the remaining unamortised portion of the fair values of purchased long term in-force businesses, which is amortised over their economic lives.
DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS i Analysis of deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 Notes m m m m Insurance contract deferred acquisition costs ii 734 66 695 69 Investment contract deferred acquisition costs iii 962 761 Deferred acquisition costs 1,696 66 1,456 69 ii Insurance contract deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m As at 1 January 695 69 897 78 Acquisition costs deferred 146 1 231 1 Amortisation charged to income 132 6 251 5 Decrease increase due to currency translation 6 1 79 9 1 Other 31 3 103 4 As at 31 December 734 66 695 69 To be amortised within 12 months 99 3 133 8 To be amortised after 12 months 635 63 562 61 1.
In 2006, included in Other is a 145m reduction which results from the adoption of the provisions of PS06 14 which has resulted in the acceleration of the recognition of margins previously used to support the deferral of these costs.
The related deferred acquisition costs have therefore been charged to the income statement during the period.
The implementation of PS06 14 is described in Note 2. www.
qxd:23148 p067-091 31 3 08 16:35 Page 90 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22.
DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS continued iii Investment contract deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m As at 1 January 761 478 Acquisition costs deferred 271 324 Amortisation charged to income 59 41 Decrease due to currency translation 3 Other 14 As at 31 December 962 761 To be amortised within 12 months 57 52 To be amortised after 12 months 905 709 23.
INCOME TAX 2007 2006 m m Due within 12 months 5 Due after 12 months 4 7 Income tax recoverable 4 12 2007 2006 m m Due within 12 months 427 245 Due after 12 months 314 139 Income tax liabilities 113 106 24.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Linked Other Total Linked Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 267 204 471 106 110 216 Cash equivalents 5,565 2,701 8,266 2,741 1,973 4,714 Cash and cash equivalents 5,832 2,905 8,737 2,847 2,083 4,930 Cash and cash equivalents of 7,446m 2006: 4,214m held within UK LTFs are not available to settle liabilities outside the LTFs.
90 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p067-091.
SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND EMPLOYEE SCHEME SHARES i Share capital and share premium 2007 Number of 2007 2006 Authorised share capital shares m m As at 31 December: ordinary shares of 2.5p each 9,200,000,000 230 230 Share Share Number of capital premium Issued share capital, fully paid Notes shares m m As at 1 January 2007 6,532,261,961 163 923 1 Shares cancelled under share buyback programme 241,207,267 6 Options exercised under share option schemes Executive share option scheme 15 1,961,215 2 Savings related share option scheme 15 3,305,251 2 As at 31 December 2007 6,296,321,160 157 927 Share Share Number of capital premium Issued share capital, fully paid Notes shares m m As at 1 January 2006 6,507,421,932 163 908 Options exercised under share option schemes Executive share option scheme 15 5,324,625 4 Savings related share option scheme 15 19,515,404 11 As at 31 December 2006 6,532,261,961 163 923 1.
During the year, 241,207,267 shares were repurchased and cancelled under the share buyback programme representing 3.7% of opening issued share capital, at a cost of 320m including expenses.
At 17 March 2008, a further 198,508,564 ordinary shares had been purchased for cancellation at a total cost of 251m including expenses see Note 37.
There is one class of ordinary shares.
All shares issued carry equal voting rights.
The holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at shareholder meetings of the Company.
ii Employee scheme shares The Group uses the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, Employee Share Trust EST and the Legal & General Group Employee Share Plan ESP to purchase and hold shares of the Group for delivery to employees under various employee share schemes.
Shares owned by these vehicles are included at cost in the consolidated balance sheet and are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
They are disclosed as employee scheme shares until they vest to employees.
Share-based liabilities to employees may also be settled via purchases directly from the market or by the issue of new shares.
The ESOT has waived its voting rights and its rights to some of the dividends payable on the shares it holds.
Employees are entitled to dividends on the shares held on their behalf within the EST and the ESP.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 92 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27.
CAPITAL REDEMPTION AND OTHER RESERVES ShareCapital Currency based redemption translation payments Hedging reserve reserve reserve reserve AFS Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2007 7 32 1 11 49 Gains on AFS assets recognised directly in equity 1 1 Shares vested 11 11 Currency translation differences 3 1 2 Cancellation of shares under the share buyback programme 6 6 Net gains losses not recognised in income statement 6 3 11 2 6 Employee share schemes: Value of employee services 16 16 As at 31 December 2007 6 4 37 1 13 59 ShareCapital Currency based redemption translation payments Hedging reserve reserve reserve reserve AFS Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2006 2 30 2 4 34 Gains on AFS assets recognised directly in equity 7 7 Fair value losses on cash ow hedges 3 3 Shares vested 12 12 Currency translation differences 9 9 Net gains losses not recognised in income statement 9 12 3 7 1 Employee share schemes: Value of employee services 14 14 As at 31 December 2006 7 32 1 11 49 28.
RETAINED EARNINGS 2007 2006 Notes m m As at 1 January 4,335 3,188 profit for the year 724 1,564 Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company during the year 13 369 349 Actuarial losses gains on dened benefit pension schemes 40 3 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 16 1 Transfer to from share-based payments reserve 7 2 Cancellation of shares under the share buyback programme 320 Fair value loss after tax on reclassication of subordinated borrowings as debt 28 Exchange gains losses 6 44 As at 31 December 4,345 4,335 29.
MINORITY INTERESTS Minority interests represent third party interests in property investment vehicles which are consolidated in the Groups results.
2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 414 285 Share of net loss profit in subsidiaries 6 67 1 Movement in third party interests 230 62 As at 31 December 178 414 1.
Movement in third party interest includes the disposal of Arlington Business Parks Unit Trust of 331m arising from dilution of the Groups ownership below 50%.
92 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
TOTAL EQUITY 2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 5,839 4,936 Total recognised income and expense 699 1,602 Issue of share capital 4 15 Share buyback 320 Net movements in employee scheme shares 1 5 Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company during the year 369 349 Movements in minority interests including disposals 230 62 Reclassication of subordinated borrowings from equity to debt 394 Fair value loss after tax on reclassication of subordinated borrowings as debt 28 As at 31 December 5,624 5,839 31.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES i Analysis of insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 Notes m m m m Life and pensions participating insurance contracts iii 11,663 1 12,660 1 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts iv 22,568 1,302 21,321 1,237 General insurance contracts v 305 19 281 16 Insurance contract liabilities 34,536 1,322 34,262 1,254 ii Expected insurance contract liability cash ows Date of undiscounted cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Life and pensions participating insurance contracts 7,420 5,475 1,008 317 14,220 11,663 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts 5,403 10,800 9,672 12,266 38,141 15,294 1 General insurance contracts 158 158 158 Insurance contract liabilities 12,981 16,275 10,680 12,583 52,519 27,115 1.
Excludes unearned premium reserve of 133m 2006: 144m for which there are no cash ows.
Date of undiscounted cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Life and pensions participating insurance contracts 7,124 7,086 1,403 470 16,083 12,659 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts 4,797 9,754 8,946 11,782 35,279 14,132 General insurance contracts 129 129 129 Insurance contract liabilities 12,050 16,840 10,349 12,252 51,491 26,920 Insurance contract undiscounted net cash ows are based on the expected date of settlement.
Unit linked contracts have been excluded from the table due to the exact matching of cash ows to those of the linked backing assets.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 94 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES continued iii Movement in participating insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 Notes m m m m As at 1 January 12,660 1 13,180 1 New liabilities in the year 219 240 Liabilities discharged in the year 1,684 1,671 Unwinding of discount rates 520 432 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 35 102 29 Effect of change in economic assumptions 35 50 487 Other 37 As at 31 December 11,663 1 12,660 1 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,799 1,431 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 9,863 11,228 iv Movement in non-participating insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 Notes m m m m As at 1 January 21,321 1,237 22,860 2,649 New liabilities in the year 2,463 286 1,995 287 Liabilities discharged in the year 1,108 78 1,630 75 Unwinding of discount rates 876 126 958 134 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 35 1 179 90 33 Effect of change in economic assumptions 35 902 417 9 Foreign exchange adjustments 109 2 176 26 Other 192 88 2,359 1,756 As at 31 December 22,568 1,302 21,321 1,237 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,475 1,492 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 19,791 18,592 Included within Effect of economic assumption changes in 2006 is the impact of Societys review of its annuity investment policy as described in Note 2.
In 2007, the Effect of change in non-economic assumptions includes approximately 214m relating to the strengthening of assumptions for annuitant longevity on existing business, which was largely offset by weakening of mortality and expense assumptions on term business on a gross of reinsurance basis.
In 2006, Other includes 2,248m gross 1,756m reinsurance relating to the impact of applying PS06 14. v Analysis of General insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m Outstanding claims 132 12 101 4 Claims incurred but not reported 40 36 1 Unearned premiums 133 7 144 11 General insurance contract liabilities 305 19 281 16 vi Movement in General insurance claim liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m As at 1 January 137 5 142 5 Claims arising 323 6 247 3 Claims paid 255 2 206 2 Adjustments to prior year liabilities 33 1 46 1 As at 31 December 172 12 137 5 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 122 85 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 38 47 Total gross claims of 86m net 76m arose as a result of the oods in 2007.
At the year end 38m of these claims had been paid.
94 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES continued vii Unearned premiums Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m As at 1 January 144 11 150 9 Earned in the period 144 11 150 11 Gross written premiums in respect of future periods 133 7 144 9 As at 31 December 133 7 144 11 Expected to be earned within 12 months net of reinsurance 125 131 Expected to be earned after 12 months net of reinsurance 1 2 viii Claims development General insurance Changes may occur in the amount of the Groups obligations at the end of a contract period.
The top section of each table below illustrates how the estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year developed over time.
The bottom section of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
Gross of reinsurance 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total Accident year m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 147 171 209 205 294 One year later 145 166 195 192 Two years later 141 160 191 Three years later 142 160 Four years later 144 Estimate of cumulative claims 144 160 191 192 294 981 Cumulative payments 139 154 179 171 175 818 Outstanding claims provision 5 6 12 21 119 163 Prior period outstanding claims 3 Claims handling provision 6 Total claims liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 172 Net of reinsurance 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total Accident year m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 142 162 205 200 280 One year later 140 161 193 188 Two years later 137 157 189 Three years later 139 158 Four years later 141 Estimate of cumulative claims 141 158 189 188 280 956 Cumulative payments 136 152 178 168 173 807 Outstanding claims provision 5 6 11 20 107 149 Prior period outstanding claims 5 Claims handling provision 6 Total claims liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 160 www.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 96 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
INVESTMENT CONTRACT LIABILITIES i Analysis of investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 Notes m m m m Participating investment contracts 7,462 74 7,501 88 Non-participating investment contracts 224,906 134 162,016 139 Investment contract liabilities ii 232,368 208 169,517 227 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 38,592 21,365 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 193,568 147,925 ii Movement in investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m As at 1 January 169,517 227 143,280 115 Reserves in respect of new business 75,969 412 28,423 93 Amounts paid on surrenders and maturities during the year 24,706 262 15,633 3 Investment return and related benets 11,854 169 13,804 22 Management charges 399 339 Foreign exchange adjustments 133 18 As at 31 December 232,368 208 169,517 227 Fair value movements of 11,789m 2006: 13,393m are included within the income statement arising from movements in investment contract liabilities designated as FVTPL.
iii Expected investment contract liability cash ows Date of undiscounted cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Participating investment contracts 3,111 4,415 2,382 1,224 11,132 7,511 Date of undiscounted cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Participating investment contracts 2,664 4,418 2,668 899 10,649 7,274 Investment contract undiscounted net cash ows are based on the expected date of settlement.
A maturity analysis based on the earliest contractual repayment date would present investment contract liabilities as due on the earliest period of the table because policyholders can exercise cancellation options at their discretion.
96 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
UNALLOCATED DIVISIBLE SURPLUS 2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 2,178 1,894 1 Transferred to from the income statement 438 284 Actuarial losses gains on dened benefit pension schemes transferred from the SORIE 16 1 Foreign exchange adjustments 3 1 As at 31 December 1,721 2,178 1.
Includes the 321m release of the 1996 Sub-fund in 2007.
It is intended that the with-profits part of the LTF will be managed on the basis that it will remain open to new business and therefore there is no expectation of any distribution from the inherited estate.
VALUE OF IN-FORCE NON-PARTICIPATING CONTRACTS i Movement in value of in-force non-participating contracts 2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 391 379 Unwinding of the discount rates 21 18 Investment return 44 1 Other 92 5 As at 31 December 276 391 Expected to be settled within 12 months 30 47 Expected to be settled after 12 months 246 344 ii Expected net cash ows Date of undiscounted cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Value of in-force non-participating contracts 153 189 94 53 489 276 Date of undiscounted cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Value of in-force non-participating contracts 198 280 132 60 670 391 Value of in-force non-participating undiscounted net cash ows are based on the expected date of realisation.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 98 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Expenses 35.
LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS The Group monitors its expense experience and carries out detailed The Groups insurance assumptions, described below, relate investigations regularly to determine the expenses incurred in writing exclusively to the UK insurance business.
The non-UK businesses and administering the different products and classes of business.
do not constitute a material component of the Groups operations Adjustments may be made for known future changes in the and consideration of geographically determined assumptions is administration processes, in line with the Groups business plan.
An allowance for expense ination in the future is also made, taking account of both salary and price information.
Non-participating business For its non-participating business the Group seeks to make prudent Participating business assumptions about its future experience based on current market For its participating business, the Group seeks to establish its liabilities conditions and recent experience.
The approach used to set at their realistic value in line with the requirements set out in FRS 27. non-participating assumptions is generally similar to that used to Non-economic assumptions are set to represent the Groups best determine the assumptions used for FSA statutory peak 1, although estimates of future experience.
the actual assumptions may sometimes differ from those used for Economic assumptions regulatory reporting purposes.
These assumptions incorporate Realistic valuation requires a market consistent economic model.
margins to reduce the possibility of actual experience being The model is calibrated using market data from a variety of market less favourable than assumed.
This enables assumptions to be determined for the term During the year, the Group has extended its implementation structure of risk free interest rates, property and equity volatility.
Risk of PS06 14 which introduced a more realistic reserving framework free interest rates are determined with reference to the gilt yield to linked business.
The persistency assumption now allows for the curve on the valuation date increased by ten basis points.
expected pattern of persistency adjusted to incorporate a margin Property volatility is set with reference to historic variations in for adverse deviation a prudent persistency basis.
Equity volatility is set so that the model reproduces Valuation rates of interest and discount rates observed market prices of traded equity derivatives.
Correlations The valuation interest rate for each contract type is based on the between asset classes are based on historic data.
yield on the assets backing the contract.
This yield is the gross Each investment scenario contains a consistent set of assumptions redemption yield on xed interest securities and the running yield for investment returns and ination.
For corporate debt, yields are Future bonuses adjusted to reect the risk of default associated with these Future reversionary and terminal bonuses are consistent with the investments.
The adjustment is based on historic published bonus policies set out in Societys Principles and Practices of information by credit rating agencies.
For equity investments, the Financial Management.
yield is based on the current dividend yield, adjusted for prudence.
For property holdings, yields are based on the rental income Value of in-force non-participating contracts payable calculated by considering different categories of tenant The Group makes a deduction from the liabilities for the expected separately, adjusted for the possibility of default.
Default rates used value of future profits arising on non-participating contracts written in the calculations vary by tenant category.
in the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The economic assumptions used to calculate the value of Mortality and morbidity these profits are consistent with those used to calculate liabilities Mortality and morbidity assumptions are set with reference to for with-profits participating business.
Non-economic assumptions standard tables drawn up by the Continuous Mortality Investigation represent best estimates of expected future experience on Bureau CMIB of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
are based on industry-wide experience.
The majority of internal statistical investigations are carried out Guaranteed annuity options at least annually to determine the extent to which the Groups The guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The experience differs from that of the industry and suggest appropriate valuation methodology allows for the correlation between interest adjustments which need to be made to the valuation assumptions.
rates and the proportion of the policyholders who take up the option.
Persistency Guaranteed cash options The Group monitors its persistency experience and carries out The liability is determined assuming that policyholders choose the detailed investigations annually.
Persistency can be volatile and most valuable alternative between the annuity and cash available past experience may not be an appropriate future indicator.
The Group tries to balance past experience and future conditions The table on page 99 sets out the current valuation assumptions by making prudent assumptions about the future expected long used to establish the long term liabilities for Society, LGPL and term average persistency levels.
Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited.
For non-participating contracts where explicit persistency Full disclosure of the valuation assumptions are set out in the assumptions are not made, prudence is also incorporated into Abstract Valuation Report contained within the FSA returns.
the liabilities by ensuring that they are sufficient to cover the more onerous of the two scenarios where the policies either remain inforce until maturity or where they discontinue at the valuation date.
98 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS continued 2007 2006 Rate of interest discount rates Non-participating business 1 1 Life assurances 3.00% pa and 7.60% pa 3.00% pa and 7.60% pa 1 1 Pension assurances 3.00 3.75% pa and 7.60% pa 3.00 4.00% pa and 7.60% pa Annuities in deferment 4.17 5.51% pa 4.11 4.80% pa Annuities in deferment RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for ination 0.59 1.56% pa 0.89 1.65% pa Vested annuities 4.97 5.51% pa 4.72 4.80% pa Vested annuities RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for ination 1.00 1.56% pa 1.20 1.65% pa Participating business Risk free rate 10 years 4.72% pa 4.84% pa Future bonuses Determined stochastically Determined stochastically in line with bonus policy in line with bonus policy as stated in PPFM as stated in PPFM UK equity volatility 10 year option term 26.9% 21.5% Property volatility 15.0% 15.0% Mortality tables Non-participating business Non-linked individual term assurances: 2 2 Smokers 104 127% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 125 145% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 2 2 Non-smokers 104 111% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 105 110% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 2 2 Smoker status unknown 124% TM00 TF00 Sel 5 145% TM00 TF00 Sel 5 2 2 Non-linked individual term assurances with critical illness 62 96% CIBT93M F Ult Comb 63 108% CIBT93M F Ult Comb 2 2 Other non-linked non profit life assurances A67 70 suitably age adjusted A67 70 suitably age adjusted Annuities in deferment 73 81% AM92 AF92 75 85% AM92 AF92 3 Vested annuities Bulk purchase annuities 94 98% PCMA00 PCFA00 97 102% PCMA00 PCFA00 Other annuities 61 89% PCMA00 PCFA00 50 92% PCMA00 PCFA00 1.
For product groups where liabilities are positive, the lower interest rate of 3.00 3.75% is used 2006: 3.00 4.00%.
However, for product groups where liabilities are negative, the higher rate of 7.60% is used.
For term assurance, mortality rates are assumed to increase at a rate of 0.5% pa. For term assurance with critical illness, morbidity rates are assumed to deteriorate at a rate of 1% pa for males and 1.75% pa for females.
There is also an allowance for AIDS of 33% in line with the Institute of Actuaries AIDS Working Party Bulletin No.
For vested annuities, mortality rates are assumed to reduce according to CMIB Working Paper 1 projection MC with a minimum of 2.0% pa up to age 90 tapering to a minimum of 0% pa at age 120 for males.
For females, mortality rates are assumed to reduce according to 75% CMIB projection MC with a minimum of 1.5% pa up to age 90 tapering to a minimum of 0% pa at age 120.
For certain annuities a further allowance is made for the effect of initial selection.
Premiums non-participating business For those contracts where the policyholder does not have the right to vary the amount of the premium paid, full credit is taken for the premiums contractually due at the valuation date.
For contracts where the policyholder has the option to vary the rate of premium, the provision is taken as being the higher of the amount calculated as if the policyholder continues to make premium payments or, alternatively, ceases to pay premiums altogether.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 100 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS continued Persistency non-participating business With the introduction of PS06 14 at 31 December 2006, it is permissible to value all long term business assuming a prudent lapse basis.
A prudent lapse basis was adopted for term assurance business at the end of 2006 and for unitised business at the end of 2007.
For these contracts, the valuation persistency basis is set by applying a prudential margin over the best estimate assumptions.
For term assurance business, the margin acts to increase the best estimate lapse rate in the early part of a policys lifetime when it is being treated as an asset but to reduce the best estimate lapse rate later in the policys lifetime when it is treated as a liability.
The crossover point at which the margin changes direction is assessed for broad product groups but applied at a policy by policy level.
Any liability to reinsurers on discontinuance within the first four years from inception is allowed for explicitly in the cash ows, using the valuation lapse basis, together with a prudent allowance for clawback of commission from agents upon lapse.
For unitised business, the margin acts to either increase or decrease the best estimate lapse rates, depending upon which approach results in the higher liability.
The direction of the margin is assessed for unit life business and unit pensions business separately.
A summary of the lapse basis for major classes of business, as dened by the requirements of the annual returns to the FSA, is shown below.
2007 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 Product %%%% Level term 12.9 9.1 3.5 3.3 Decreasing term 12.9 9.5 6.4 6.1 Accelerated critical illness cover 17.9 10.4 5.8 5.5 Pensions term 12.3 9.2 6.9 3.8 Individual pension regular premium unitised with-profits 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Individual pension regular premium unit linked 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Group pension regular premium unitised with-profits 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Group pension regular premium unit linked 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Individual pension single premium unitised with-profits 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 Individual pension single premium unit linked 3.3 2.8 2.8 2.8 Group pension single premium unitised with-profits 14.4 14.4 14.4 14.4 Group pension single premium unit linked 9.9 9.0 9.0 9.0 2006 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 Product %%%% Level term 12.2 9.7 3.2 3.2 Decreasing term 12.2 10.1 6.0 5.9 Accelerated critical illness cover 16.7 11.2 5.7 5.6 Pensions term 10.5 9.1 5.4 5.2 Overseas business In calculating the long term business provisions for international long term business operations, local actuarial tables and interest rates are used.
Endowment reserve The endowment reserve has been set taking reasonable account of an assessment of the expected future population of complaints, the expected uphold rate for these complaints, the potential impact of any Financial Ombudsman Service decisions on referred complaints and the average compensation per complaint.
100 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
BORROWINGS i Analysis by nature Carrying Coupon Carrying Coupon amount rate Fair value amount rate Fair value 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m % m m % m Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities 620 6.39 591 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes 427 5.88 387 429 5.88 411 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 414 4.00 409 389 4.00 397 Total subordinated borrowings 1,461 1,387 818 808 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 5.87 626 608 5.87 682 Euro commercial paper 2007 118 4.66 118 370 4.66 370 Bank loans 2007 13 5.84 13 3 5.28 3 Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 266 6.27 266 270 5.37 270 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 223 5.61 223 226 5.72 226 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 99 7.09 99 130 5.91 130 Total senior borrowings 1,327 1,3451,607 1,681 Total borrowings 2,788 2,732 2,425 2,489 Total borrowings excluding non recourse nancing 2,200 2,144 1,799 1,863 119m of interest expense was incurred during the period 2006: 106m on borrowings excluding non recourse nancing.
Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities In 2007, Legal & General Group Plc issued 600m of 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities.
Simultaneous with the issuance, the xed coupon was swapped into six month LIBOR plus 0.94% pa.
These securities are callable at par on 2 May 2017 and every three months thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 2 May 2017 will be reset to three month LIBOR plus 1.93% pa. For regulatory purposes these securities are treated as innovative tier I capital.
These securities have been classied as a liability as the interest payments become mandatory in certain circumstances.
5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes In 2004, Legal & General Group Plc issued 400m of 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes.
These notes are callable at par on 1 April 2019 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 1 April 2019 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 2.33% pa.
These notes are treated as upper tier II capital for regulatory purposes.
4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 In 2005, Legal & General Group Plc issued 600m of 4.0% Euro dated subordinated notes.
The proceeds were swapped into sterling.
The notes are callable at par on 8 June 2015 and each year thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 8 June 2015 will reset to a oating rate of interest based on prevailing three month Euribor plus 1.7% pa.
These notes mature on 8 June 2025 and are treated as lower tier II capital for regulatory purposes.
Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 In 2004, a subsidiary of Legal & General America Inc issued US$550m of non recourse debt in the US capital markets to meet the Triple X reserve requirements of part of the US term insurance written up to 2005.
It is secured on the cash ows related to that tranche of business.
US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 In 2006, a subsidiary of Legal & General America Inc issued US$450m of non recourse debt in the US capital markets to meet the Triple X reserve requirements of part of the US term insurance written after 2005 and 2006.
Sterling property partnership loans 2011 The property partnership loans are secured on specic properties.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 102 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
BORROWINGS continued ii Analysis by maturity Maturity prole of undiscounted cash ows Carrying Within Over amount 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities 620 600 600 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes 427 400 400 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 414 441 441 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 350 250 600 Euro commercial paper 2007 118 118 118 Bank loans 2007 13 13 13 Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 266 272 272 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 223 226 226 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 99 98 98 Total borrowings 2,788 131 98 1,063 1,476 2,768 Contractual undiscounted interest payments 151 598 1,444 1,181 82 3,456 Total contractual undiscounted cash ows 282 696 1,444 2,244 1,558 6,224 Maturity prole of undiscounted cash ows Carrying Within Over amount 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes 429 400 400 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 389 404 404 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 350 250 600 Euro commercial paper 2006 370 373 373 Bank loans 2006 3 3 3 Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 270 276 276 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 226 230 230 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 130 129 129 Total borrowings 2,425 376 129 1,030 880 2,415 Contractual undiscounted interest payments 110 441 1,029 842 112 2,534 Total contractual undiscounted cash ows 486 570 1,029 1,872 992 4,949 As at 31 December 2007, the Group had in place a 1bn syndicated committed revolving credit facility provided by a number of its key relationship banks, maturing in December 2012.
The maturity prole above is calculated on the basis that a facility to renance a maturing loan is not recognised unless the facility and loan are related.
If renancing under the Groups syndicated facility was recognised, then all amounts shown as repayable within one year would be reclassied as repayable between one and five years.
The effective interest rate is the rate which discounts exactly future cash payments over the life of the borrowing and will include all transaction costs and premia or discounts on issue.
For the 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes, the effective rate includes the impact of reclassication of the notes from equity to debt on 13 March 2006 at fair value.
Undiscounted interest payments are estimated based on the year end applicable interest rate and spot exchange rates.
102 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
BORROWINGS continued Convertible bond The convertible bond matured in 2006 and was redeemed at par without being converted into ordinary shares.
The debt component, net of expenses, of the convertible bond recognised in the balance sheet is calculated as follows: 2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 509 Interest expense 30 Coupons paid 14 Repayment of debt 525 As at 31 December 37.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 7 February 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with the Nationwide Building Society to purchase Nationwide Life Limited and Nationwide Unit Trust Managers Limited.
On 1 February 2008, the acquisition was completed for total consideration of approximately 293m.
A separate arrangement also provides access to Nationwides distribution network, through which it is anticipated that a wide range of the Groups investment, pensions and life insurance products will be sold.
Since 31 December 2007, additional purchases of shares have been made under the Companys buyback programme.
At 17 March 2008, a further 198,508,564 ordinary shares representing 3.2% of Legal & General Group Plcs issued share capital at 31 December 2007 had been purchased for cancellation at a total cost of 251m including expenses, at an average cost of 125.7p per share.
Cumulatively, a total of 439,715,831 shares have been repurchased at a total cost of 571m.
PROVISIONS Retirement benefit obligations Dened contribution plans The Group operates the following dened contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group Personal Pension Plan UK.
Legal & General Staff Stakeholder Pension Scheme UK.
Legal & General America Inc. Savings Plan US.
Rgime fide Retraite Professionnel France.
Legal & General Nederland Stichting Pensioenfonds Netherlands : replacing the early retirement scheme previously part of the dened benefit plan.
Contributions of 21m 2006: 17m were charged as expenses during the year in respect of these plans.
Dened benefit plans The Group operates the following dened benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group UK Pension and Assurance Fund the Fund.
The Fund was closed to new members from January 1995: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
Legal & General Group UK Senior Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme was, with a few exceptions principally transfers from the Fund, closed to new members from August 2000 and nally closed to new members from April 2007: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
Legal & General America Inc. Cash Balance Plan: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
Legal & General Nederland Stichting Pensioenfonds: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2007.
Rgime fide Retraite Prestations Dnies fide Legal & General France : last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2007.
The benets paid from the dened benefit schemes are based on percentages of the employees final pensionable salary for each year of credited service.
The Group has no liability for retirement benets other than for pensions, except for a small scheme in France Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire, which provides lump sum benets on retirement.
The Fund and Scheme account for virtually all of the UK and over 98% of worldwide assets of the Groups dened benefit schemes.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 104 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
PROVISIONS continued Retirement benefit obligations continued The principal actuarial assumptions for the UK dened benefit schemes were: 2007 2006 Fund and Fund and Scheme Scheme % % Rate used to discount liabilities 5.70 5.10 Expected return on plan assets 6.67 6.72 Rate of increase in salaries 4.40 3.60 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.40 3.25 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 4.40 4.00 Rate of general ination RPI 3.40 3.20 Rate of wage ination 4.40 4.00 Post retirement mortality 2007 100% Fund 85% Scheme of PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at 100% MC males, 75% MC females, minimum improvement 1.5% pa males and 1.0% pa females 2006 100% PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at 100% MC males, 70% MC females, minimum improvement 0.6% pa 2007 2006 Fund and 2007 Fund and 2006 Scheme Overseas Scheme Overseas m m m m Change in present value of dened benefit obligations As at 1 January 1,327 19 1,284 20 Current service cost 17 18 1 Interest expense 67 60 1 Plan participants contributions 3 3 Actuarial loss gain recognised in SORIE 1 5 1 Benets paid 50 1 43 1 Exchange differences 1 1 As at 31 December 1,365 19 1,327 19 Change in fair value of plan assets As at 1 January 761 17 706 16 Expected return on plan assets 51 46 1 Actuarial loss gain recognised in SORIE 32 10 Employer contributions 38 1 39 2 Plan participants contributions 3 3 Benets paid 50 1 43 1 Exchange differences 1 1 As at 31 December 771 18 761 17 Gross pension obligations included in provisions 594 1 566 2 Annuity obligations insured by Society 413 392 Gross dened benefit pension deficit 181 1 174 2 Deferred tax on dened benefit pension deficit 51 52 1 Net dened benefit pension deficit 130 1 122 1 The total amount of actuarial gains losses net of tax recognised in the SORIE for the year was 40 m: cumulative 135 m 2006: 3m: cumulative 95 m. Actuarial gains losses net of tax relating to with-profits policyholders of 16 m 2006: 1m have been allocated to the unallocated divisible surplus.
104 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
PROVISIONS CONTINUED Retirement benefit obligations continued The historic funding and experience adjustments are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m Present value of dened benefit obligations 1,384 1,346 1,304 1,106 951 Fair value of plan assets 789 778 722 603 540 Gross pension obligations 595 568 582 503 411 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 19 13 9 9 9 Experience adjustments on plan assets 32 10 76 36 59 The fair value of the plan assets and expected return at the end of the year is made up as follows: Expected Expected UK return Overseas return As at 31 December 2007 m % m % Equities 396 7.5 5 8.5 Bonds 330 5.7 10 4.8 Properties 45 6.5 Other investments 3 3.7 771 18 Expected Expected UK return Overseas return As at 31 December 2006 m % m % Equities 460 7.6 5 8.8 Bonds 244 5.1 10 4.5 Properties 57 6.6 Other investments 2 3.5 761 17 The expected rate of return for bonds is based on the current yield on a medium to long term AA bond index.
The expected rates of return on equities and properties are based on margins over bond yields reecting risk premiums.
The return on plan assets in 2007 was 19m 2006: 57m.
Employer contributions of 38m are expected to be paid to the plan during 2008.
The following amounts have been charged credited to the income statement: 2007 2006 m m Current service costs 17 19 Interest expense 67 61 Expected return on plan assets 51 47 Total included in other expenses 33 33 39.
DEFERRED INCOME LIABILITIES 2007 2006 m m Due within 12 months 84 64 Due after 12 months 409 358 Deferred income liabilities 493 422 www.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 106 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES The movement in deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows: Charged As at 31 credited to Charged As at 31 December the income credited to December 2006 statement equity 2007 m m m m Unrealised gains and losses on investments and debt liabilities 703 247 2 458 Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 33 1 32 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for expenses 46 38 1 7 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for actuarial reserves 136 27 163 Tax losses carried forward 232 232 Temporary differences in relation to the pension fund deficit 53 5 7 51 Other temporary differences 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 472 186 10 296 Included in the amounts charged credited to income and equity above is 9m relating to the change in UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% in April 2008.
Charged As at 31 credited to Charged As at 31 December the income credited to December 2005 statement equity 2006 m m m m Unrealised gains and losses on investments and debt liabilities 570 131 2 703 Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 30 3 33 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for expenses 7 34 19 46 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for actuarial reserves 49 94 7 136 Tax losses carried forward 37 200 5 232 Temporary differences in relation to the pension fund deficit 64 9 2 53 Other temporary differences 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 492 3 17 472 No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings to the UK and there is no intention to remit any such earnings to the UK in the foreseeable future if the remittance would trigger any incremental UK tax liability.
The maximum estimated temporary differences unprovided for are set out below, grouped by country.
The calculation of the maximum temporary difference takes no account of any foreign tax suffered on the earnings in the jurisdiction of the foreign entity which might be available by way of double tax relief to reduce any UK tax liability arising on remittance.
2007 2006 m m USA 369 346 France 63 48 432 394 106 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: The Group has unrelieved trading losses carried forward of 15m 2006: 12m in its overseas operations.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006, as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
Relief for these losses will only be obtained if there are suitable profits arising in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2007 is 4m 2006: 3m.
The Group has unrelieved post-cessation trading losses carried forward of 18m 2006: 17m.
Relief for these losses will only be obtained if there are suitable post-cessation trading profits arising in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2007 is 5m 2006: 5m.
The Group has surplus non-trading loan relationship deficits and management expenses carried forward of 17m 2006: 17m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these deficits and expenses as at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006, as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
Relief for these deficits and expenses will only be obtained if there are suitable profits arising in future periods.
The Group has net realised and unrealised capital losses carried forward as at 31 December 2007 of 2m 2006: 2m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as at 31 December 2006 as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2007 is 1m 2006: 1m.
OTHER LIABILITIES 2007 2006 Notes m m Accruals 333 256 Derivative liabilities 19 748 177 Reinsurers share of deferred acquisition costs 66 69 Other 968 1,161 Other liabilities 2,115 1,663 Settled within 12 months 1,825 1,405 Settled after 12 months 290 258 Accruals include 147m 2006: 112m of future commission payments which have contingent settlement provisions.
This liability has been determined using the net present value of the future commission which will be payable on fund values.
This valuation technique uses assumptions which are consistent with the Groups effective rate of interest, investment return assumptions and persistency assumptions used in other valuations, but it is not determined by reference to published price quotations.
The undiscounted value which is expected to be paid at maturity in respect of such commission is 212m.
Other liabilities settled after 12 months are expected to be settled within five years.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 108 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 42.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS There were no material transactions between directors or key managers and the Legal & General group of companies.
All transactions between the Group, its directors and key managers are on commercial terms which are no more favourable than those available to employees in general.
Contributions to the post-employment benefit plans are outlined in Note 38.
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 there were no loans outstanding to ofcers of the Company.
Key management personnel compensation The aggregate compensation for key management personnel, including executive and non-executive directors, is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Salaries 20 17 Social security costs 3 3 Post-employment benets 5 7 Share-based incentive awards 6 6 Key management personnel compensation 34 33 Number of key management personnel 86 73 The UK dened benefit pension schemes have purchased annuity contracts issued by Society for consideration of 52m 2006: 57m during the year, priced on an arms length basis.
The Groups investment portfolio includes investments in private equity, property and financial investments which are held via collective investment vehicles.
Net investments into associate investment vehicles totalled 1,394m during the year 2006: 1,542m.
The Group has outstanding loans to these associates of 5m 2006: 6m and received investment management fees of 41m during the year 2006: 31m.
Distributions from these investment vehicles to the Group totalled 178m 2006: 109m.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, GUARANTEES AND INDEMNITIES Liabilities arising under contracts with policyholders are based on certain assumptions.
The variance of actual experience from that assumed may result in such liabilities differing from the estimates made for them.
Liabilities may also arise in respect of claims relating to the interpretation of such contracts, or the circumstances in which policyholders have entered into them together in this paragraph liabilities.
The extent of such liabilities is inuenced by a number of factors including the actions and requirements of the FSA, by ombudsman rulings, by industry compensation schemes and by court judgements.
The continuing general prole and emphasis being given by the FSA and other bodies to the suitability of the past sales of endowment policies in the context of some mortgage transactions has led to the continuing receipt of claims from holders of endowment policies.
Various Group companies receive claims and become involved in actual or threatened litigation and regulatory issues from time to time.
Provision for liabilities continues to be made and is regularly reviewed.
However, it is not possible to predict, with certainty, the extent and the timing of the financial impact to which these claims, litigation or issues may give rise.
The relevant members of the Group nevertheless consider that each makes prudent provision, as and when circumstances calling for such provision become clear, and that each has adequate capital and reserves to meet all reasonably foreseeable eventualities.
In 1975, Society was required by the Institute of London Underwriters ILU to execute the ILU form of guarantee in respect of policies issued through the ILUs Policy Signing Ofce on behalf of NRG Victory Reinsurance Company Ltd Victory, a company which was then a subsidiary of Society.
In 1990, Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep Holding NV the assets and liabilities of which have since been assumed by Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV under a statutory merger in the Netherlands acquired Victory and provided an indemnity to Society against any liability Society may have as a result of the ILUs requirement, and the ILU agreed that its requirement of Society would not apply to policies written or renewed after the acquisition.
Whether Society has any liability as a result of the ILUs requirement and, if so, the amount of its potential liability is uncertain.
Society has made no payment or provision in respect of this matter.
Society has been discussing with Her Majestys Revenue & Customs the application of certain tax legislation specic to life assurance companies for the years 1999 to 2006.
It has not been possible to reach agreement and a reference will be made in 2008 to the Special Commissioners.
The maximum exposure is estimated to be 230m.
No amount is included in respect of this issue in the income tax provision at 31 December 2007, as the Groups view, supported by leading tax counsel, is that no amount will be payable.
Group companies have given indemnities and guarantees, including interest rate guarantees, as a normal part of their operating activities or in relation to capital market transactions.
108 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
COMMITMENTS i Capital commitments 2007 2006 m m Authorised and contracted commitments not provided for in respect of investment property development, payable after 31 December Long term business 158 49 ii Operating lease commitments 2007 2006 m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 25 23 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 122 93 Later than 5 years 363 232 510 348 Future aggregate minimum sublease payments expected to be received under operating subleases 8 9 The future aggregate minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 2 2 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 6 4 Later than 5 years 1 3 9 9 The Group leases ofces and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
SUBSIDIARIES i Operating subsidiaries The principal operating subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are listed below.
The Company holds, directly or indirectly, all of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of these companies.
Company name Nature of business Country of incorporation 1 Legal & General Finance PLC Treasury operations England and Wales 1 Legal & General Resources Limited Provision of services England and Wales Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Long term and general insurance England and Wales Legal & General Insurance Limited General insurance England and Wales Legal & General Investment Management Limited Institutional fund management England and Wales Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Long term business England and Wales Legal & General Pensions Limited Reinsurance England and Wales Legal & General Partnership Services Limited Provision of services England and Wales Legal & General Portfolio Management Services Limited Institutional fund management England and Wales Legal & General Property Limited Property management England and Wales Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Limited Unit trust management England and Wales LGV Capital Limited Private equity England and Wales Legal & General France SA Long term business France Legal & General Bank France SA Financial services France Legal & General International Ireland Limited Long term business Ireland Legal & General Nederland Levensverzekering Maatschappij NV Long term business Netherlands Banner Life Insurance Company Inc Long term business USA William Penn Life Insurance Company of New York Inc Long term business USA First British American Reinsurance Company Reinsurance USA First British American Reinsurance Company II Reinsurance USA First British Bermudan Reinsurance Company Reinsurance Bermuda 1.
Directly held by Legal & General Group Plc.
All other subsidiaries are held through intermediate holding companies.
The main territory of operation of subsidiaries incorporated in England and Wales is the UK.
For overseas subsidiaries the principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
All subsidiaries have a 31 December year end reporting date.
The complete list of subsidiary undertakings can be obtained from the registered ofce at One Coleman Street, London, EC2R 5AA.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 110 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 45.
SUBSIDIARIES continued ii Investment vehicles The following mutual funds and partnerships have been consolidated as a result of the Groups ability to exert control over the financial and operating activities of the investment vehicle so as to obtain economic benets.
Year end % equity held Vehicle name Vehicle type Territory reporting date by the Group Chineham Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 100.0 Ealing Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 100.0 Gresham Street Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 100.0 Legal & General City Ofces Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 100.0 Northampton Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 100.0 Legal & General Spectrum Jersey Unit Trust Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 100.0 Legal & General Pacic Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 25 03 07 93.1 Legal & General Far Eastern Trust Equity unit trust UK 10 09 07 88.5 Legal & General European Trust Equity unit trust UK 28 07 07 85.1 Legal & General Equity Trust Equity unit trust UK 15 08 07 82.2 ARC Property Fund Unit Trust Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 80.0 Legal & General North American Trust Equity unit trust UK 16 01 07 80.4 Legal & General Japanese Trust Equity unit trust UK 17 10 07 76.0 Legal & General UK Smaller Companies Trust Equity unit trust UK 18 06 07 75.1 Legal & General High Income Trust Fixed interest unit trust UK 05 09 07 67.3 Legal & General Global Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 15 01 07 65.8 Legal & General Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 15 05 07 61.0 Legal & General West End Ofces Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 07 50.0 1 The Leisure Fund Limited Partnership Property partnership England and Wales 31 12 07 41.9 2 Lagoon Finance Limited Limited liability company Ireland 20 12 07 2 Trees S. A.
The Leisure Fund Limited Partnership is consolidated on the basis that the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and has the rights to receive benets by virtue of the limited partnership agreement.
Lagoon Finance Limited and Trees S. A. are consolidated on the basis that the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and has the rights to receive 100% of the economic benets.
ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES The Group has the following significant holdings which have been included as financial investments or investments in associates.
The gross assets of these companies are in part funded by borrowings which are non recourse to the Group.
Country of Accounting Year end % of equity shares Company name incorporation treatment reporting date held by group 1 Bracknell Property Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 31 03 07 50.5 Performance Shopping Centre Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 31 12 07 50.0 Meteor Industrial Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 31 12 07 49.9 Legal & General Ethical Trust England and Wales FVTPL 12 12 07 48.0 LGV 3 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 30 09 07 46.6 LGV 1 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 30 09 07 46.3 LGV 5 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 30 09 07 45.0 Arlington Business Parks Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 31 12 07 44.9 UK Logistics Fund Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 31 12 07 43.2 Legal & General Pacic Index Trust England and Wales FVTPL 25 09 07 41.0 Legal & General UK Property Trust England and Wales FVTPL 31 12 07 38.8 Legal & General European Index Trust Plc England and Wales FVTPL 31 07 07 38.0 Legal & General US Index Trust England and Wales FVTPL 05 12 07 38.0 English Cities Fund England and Wales FVTPL 31 12 07 37.5 LGV 2 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 30 09 07 37.1 LGV 4 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 30 09 07 36.7 Legal & General Japanese Index Trust England and Wales FVTPL 24 10 07 36.0 Mithras Investment Trust Plc England and Wales FVTPL 31 12 07 34.7 Legal & General Active Opportunities Trust England and Wales FVTPL 14 10 07 29.0 The IPIF Feeder Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 31 12 07 27.4 Cofunds Holdings Limited England and Wales Equity method 31 12 07 25.4 Warrington Retail Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 31 12 07 25.0 Dunedin Capital Group Limited Scotland FVTPL 28 02 07 22.6 1.
The Bracknell Property Unit Trust is not consolidated as the Group does not have the power to control the entity.
110 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Summarised financial information for associates which are classied as FVTPL is shown below.
Private Property equity partnerships Unit trusts Total 2007 m m m m Aggregate revenues 198 188 504 890 Aggregate profit 191 83 54 328 Gross assets 296 4,164 3,686 8,146 Gross liabilities 9 1,703 40 1,752 Private Property equity partnerships Unit trusts Total 2006 m m m m Aggregate revenues 174 139 257 570 Aggregate profit 171 51 94 316 Gross assets 386 2,358 4,891 7,635 Gross liabilities 7 554 54 615 47.
GOODWILL RESULTING FROM ACQUISITIONS Assurance Pensions Management Limited PMC, which is a life company writing predominantly non-participating group pension The cumulative goodwill charged to reserves prior to 1998, arising business effected by trustees of occupational schemes in the UK from acquisition of subsidiaries which are still part of the Group, or their equivalent overseas.
The assets are held in a LTF and are amounted to 70m 2006: 70m.
separate from other assets within the Group.
In addition, General insurance business is written in the UK by 48.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES Legal & General Insurance Limited, and long term insurance business is written by subsidiaries in America, the Netherlands and in France.
Capital fund structure The Groups total capital resources of 8.6bn 2006: 8.4bn on an Capital management policies and objectives IFRS basis comprise equity holders capital, 5.5bn 2006: 5.4bn, The Group aims to manage its capital resources to maintain subordinated debt, 1.4bn 2006: 0.8bn, and unallocated divisible financial strength, policyholder security and relative external surplus, 1.7bn 2006: 2.2bn.
The Group also seeks to The Group writes a range of long term insurance and investment maximise its financial exibility by maintaining strong liquidity and business in the LTF of its main operating insurance subsidiary, by utilising a range of alternative sources of capital including equity, Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society.
This fund is senior debt, subordinated debt and reinsurance.
segregated from the Groups other assets.
The fund includes participating with-profits business where policyholders and Capital measures shareholders share in the risks and rewards, and non-participating The Group measures its capital on a number of different bases, non profit business, where the shareholders receive the profits.
including those which comply with the regulatory framework within Capital in excess of an amount required to cover the liabilities is which the Group operates and those which the directors consider currently held both within and outside the Society LTF.
This capital most appropriate for managing the business.
The measures used provides support for new and existing non profit business within our by the Group include: UK life and pensions business.
Accounting bases On 31 December 2006, the non-linked non profit pensions and The directors believe that the supplementary accounts prepared annuity business of Society was ceded to a new, wholly owned using EEV principles provide an accurate and meaningful reinsurance company, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGPL.
The reection of the Groups long term operations and the value of reinsurance was effected on arms length terms.
On 1 November the business to shareholders.
Accordingly, the Groups net asset 2007, LGPL converted to an Insurance Special Purpose Vehicle ISPV.
value and total capital employed are analysed and measured Whilst an ISPV is not required to segregate policyholder assets within on this basis.
an LTF, LGPL continues to manage policyholder and shareholder In addition, management have regard to the primary financial assets separately.
statements prepared under IFRS in order to manage capital and Since 1996, transfers from the Society LTF to shareholders cash ow usage and to determine dividend paying capacity.
have been limited by a formula agreed with the FSA.
This transfer reected the shareholders share of the with-profits surplus and Regulatory bases a smooth investment return on the embedded value of the The financial strength of the Groups insurance subsidiaries is shareholder net worth and the non profit business of our UK life and measured under local regulatory requirements see page 112. pensions business.
As part of the restructuring of the Society LTF, the One of these regulatory measures, Individual Capital Assessment Group announced that the transfer formula would be removed.
ICA, measures capital using risk based techniques, and provides Managed pension fund business is written through Legal & General a measure of economic capital.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 112 Notes to the Financial Statements continued French and Dutch regulatory bases 48.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued The minimum required capital is dened by the French Ministry Basis of regulatory capital and corresponding regulatory of Finances Code des Assurances and the fide Nederlandsche capital requirements Bank N. V. Dutch Supervisory Body respectively.
The basis of the In each country in which the Group operates, the local insurance calculation is a percentage of the liabilities plus a percentage of regulator species rules and guidance for the minimum amount the sum assured at risk and, for some contracts, the premium.
The and type of capital which must be held by long term insurance percentages depend on the guarantees given and the amount subsidiaries in excess of their insurance liabilities.
The minimum of reinsurance cover.
required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the Group regulatory basis year.
This helps to ensure that payments to policyholders can be In addition to the regulatory capital calculations for the individual made as they fall due.
As at 31 March 2007, FSA changes to rms, the Group is required to comply with the requirements of the regulatory capital requirements meant that tier 3 capital was no IGD.
This is a very prudent measure of capital resources, as it longer admissible for capital adequacy calculations.
At the time excludes any amount of surplus capital within a LTF.
of the rule changes, Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Ltd UTM held 10m of tier 3 capital and, as a result, was in breach of its Available regulatory capital resources capital adequacy requirements.
This breach was immediately Capital resources available to meet the UK capital requirements are alerted to the FSA and was corrected by way of a capital determined using FSA valuation rules.
The asset valuation rules are restructure within UTM veried in September 2007. based on UK GAAP, adjusted for both admissable limits and specic The required capital is calculated by either assessing the valuation differences.
The Groups regulatory capital position additional assets which would be required to meet the insurance statement in Table 1 sets out the different sources of capital held companys liabilities in specified, stressed financial conditions, or by within the Group.
The Groups total available capital resources, 1 applying xed percentages to the insurance companys liabilities based on the unaudited FSA returns, are 6.5bn 2006: 6.9bn of and risk exposures.
The requirements in the different jurisdictions in which 3.9bn 2006: 5.8bn is held by the life businesses.
The use which the Group operates are detailed below: of capital held by the UK and overseas life businesses is generally constrained by local regulatory requirements, and may not be UK regulatory basis available to provide funding for other businesses.
Required capital for the life business is based on the rules of the FSA.
The total available capital resources of the Groups with-profits Society must hold assets in excess of the higher of two amounts, the business of 1.0bn 2006: 1.1bn is determined in accordance with first being calculated using the FSA rules pillar 1, the second being the realistic balance sheet rules prescribed by the FSA.
The capital an economic capital assessment by the Company which is reviewed resources reect the surplus in that part of the fund which is in by the FSA pillar 2, otherwise known as ICA.
excess of any constructive obligation to policyholders.
The liabilities The public pillar 1 capital calculation is the total of two amounts.
within the consolidated balance sheet do not include the amount The first amount is based on the most onerous of a number of stress representing the shareholders share of future bonuses.
However, for tests which are applied to both assets and insurance liabilities.
The capital reporting, the shareholders share is deducted from capital second amount is calculated by applying xed percentages to resources in the capital statement.
liabilities and sums assured at risk.
There are further stress tests for At 31 December 2007, the realistic value of the UK participating participating liabilities as measured in the Realistic Balance Sheet, liabilities was 18.5bn 2006: 19.8bn under the FSA realistic capital which may increase the required capital.
The excess of realistic assets over realistic liabilities was The private pillar 2 capital calculation is an assessment of the 1.0bn 2006: 1.1bn.
economic capital required to ensure that the Company can meet its liabilities, with a high likelihood, as they fall due.
The FSA returns are audited and led subsequent to the publication of the by stochastic modelling and scenario testing.
The result is reviewed Groups capital position.
and may be modied by the FSA.
Regulatory capital for the general insurance business is also calculated using FSA pillar 1 and pillar 2 requirements.
The pillar 1 calculation applies xed percentages to premiums and claims.
Pillar 2 creates a higher capital requirement and is therefore applied.
US regulatory basis Required capital is determined to be the Company Action Level Risk Based Capital RBC based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners RBC model.
RBC is a method of measuring the minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations, taking into account its size and risk prole.
The calculation is based on applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items, with the factors determined as higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for less risky items.
112 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued Table 1 Regulatory capital position statement Shareholders UK non equity and UK withprofit Overseas Total other profits and SRC LGPL and PMC life activities Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Shareholders equity outside the LTF 512 1,104 1,616 1,648 3,264 Shareholders equity held in the LTF 2,182 2,182 2,182 Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,182 512 1,104 3,798 1,648 5,446 1 Adjustments onto regulatory basis : 2 Unallocated divisible surplus 1,757 36 1,721 1,721 3 Other 710 349 5 506 1,570 255 1,825 Other qualifying capital: 4 Subordinated borrowings 1,429 1,429 5 Internal loans 703 703 Proposed dividend 247 247 Total available capital resources 1,047 1,130 1,210 562 3,949 2,575 6,524 IFRS liability analysis: UK participating liabilities on realistic basis Options and guarantees 533 533 533 Other policyholder obligations 16,782 32 16,814 16,814 Overseas participating liabilities 1,778 1,778 1,778 2 Unallocated divisible surplus 1,757 36 1,721 1,721 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 276 276 276 Participating contract liabilities 18,796 32 1,742 20,570 20,570 Unit linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 677 5,014 1,183 6,874 6,874 Non-linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 2,097 12,019 1,578 15,694 15,694 Unit linked non-participating investment contract liabilities 8,208 14,107 202,591 224,906 224,906 General insurance liabilities 305 305 Non-participating contract liabilities 10,982 31,140 205,352 247,474 305 247,779 1.
Figures extracted from draft unaudited regulatory returns.
The negative overseas unallocated divisible surplus arises as a result of differences between regulatory and IFRS reporting.
Shareholders share in realistic liabilities of 616m and changes to the values of assets and liabilities on a regulated basis of 1,209m are included within Other.
In 2007, the Group issued 600m of perpetual capital securities which are treated as innovative tier I capital for regulatory purposes.
Internal loans wholly comprises the contingent loan 703m from Societys LTF to LGPL, which is reected in the value of LGPL for regulatory purposes.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 114 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued Table 1 Regulatory capital position statement continued UK non Shareholders profit, SRC equity and UK withand 1996 Overseas Total other profits Sub-fund LGPL and PMC life activities Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m m Shareholders equity outside the LTF 550 906 1,456 706 2,162 Shareholders equity in the LTF 3,263 3,263 3,263 Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company 3,263 550 906 4,719 706 5,425 2 Adjustments onto regulatory basis : Unallocated divisible surplus 1,862 302 14 2,178 2,178 Other 734 242 70 428 1,474 29 1,503 Other qualifying capital: 3 Subordinated borrowings 797 797 4 Internal loans 571 971 12 412 412 Total available capital resources 1,128 2,752 1,451 504 5,835 1,062 6,897 IFRS liability analysis: UK participating liabilities on realistic basis Options and guarantees 520 520 520 Other policyholder obligations 18,117 37 18,154 18,154 Overseas participating liabilities 1,487 1,487 1,487 Unallocated divisible surplus 1,862 302 14 2,178 2,178 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 391 391 391 Participating contract liabilities 20,108 339 1,501 21,948 21,948 Unit linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 678 4,307 971 5,956 5,956 Non-linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 1,996 11,847 1,522 15,365 15,365 Unit linked non-participating investment contract liabilities 7,468 11,069 143,479 162,016 162,016 General insurance liabilities 281 281 Non-participating contract liabilities 10,142 27,223 145,972 183,337 281 183,618 1.
Shareholders share in realistic liabilities of 749m and changes to the values of assets and liabilities on a regulated basis of 754m are included within Other.
Group has issued 600m of subordinated lower tier II borrowings and 400m of subordinated upper tier II borrowings both of which are treated as capital on a regulatory basis.
In 2006, LGPL issued 200m of subordinated upper tier II borrowings and 200m of subordinated lower tier II borrowings to Society.
In addition, 571m has been injected from Societys LTF into LGPLs LTF by means of a contingent loan to cover the initial regulatory loss in LGPL.
These loans qualify as capital for regulatory purposes in LGPL.
Legal & General Overseas Holdings Limited has subscribed for a total of 18m of perpetual subordinated loan stock issued by Legal & General Holdings France SA.
114 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued Available regulatory capital resource risks The Groups available capital resources are sensitive to changes in market conditions, both to changes in the value of the assets and to the impact which changes in investment conditions may have on the value of the liabilities.
Capital resources are also sensitive to assumptions and experience relating to mortality and morbidity and, to a lesser extent, expenses and persistency.
The most significant sensitivities arise from the following four risks: market risk in relation to UK participating business which would crystallise if adverse changes in the value of the assets supporting this business could not be fully reected in payments to policyholders because of the effect of guarantees and options.
The capital position of this business would also deteriorate if increases to the market cost of derivatives resulted in an increase in the liability for guarantees and options in the realistic balance sheet.
market risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the return from the xed interest investments supporting this business were lower than that assumed for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the mortality of annuitants improved more rapidly than the assumptions used for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK and US term assurance businesses, which would crystallise if mortality of the lives insured was higher than that assumed, possibly because of an epidemic.
A range of management actions are available to mitigate any adverse impact from changing market conditions and experience, changes to with-profit bonus rates, changes to discretionary surrender terms and the potential for charging for guarantees.
To the extent that management actions are expected only to offset partially adverse experience, then liabilities would be increased to anticipate the future impact of the adverse experience and total capital resources would be reduced.
Movements in life business regulatory capital resources The movement in the life business regulatory capital resources is shown in Table 2.
Table 2 Movements in life business capital resources UK non profit, SRC UK withand 1996 Overseas Total profits Sub-fund LGPL and PMC life 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m As at 1 January 1,128 2,752 1,451 504 5,835 Effect of investment variations 22 199 171 18 330 Effect of changes in non-economic assumptions 62 69 296 9 156 Changes in management policy 59 59 Changes in regulatory requirements 30 28 9 67 New business 32 242 100 140 514 Cash distributions 1,700 55 1,755 Other factors 60 24 25 262 201 As at 31 December 1,047 1,130 1,210 562 3,949 UK non profit, SRC UK withand 1996 Overseas Total profits Sub-fund LGPL and PMC life 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m As at 1 January 842 3,173 592 4,607 Effect of investment variations 127 862 42 947 Effect of changes in non-economic assumptions 72 75 3 Changes in management policy 4 1,297 1,301 Changes in regulatory requirements 2 363 3 368 New business 16 236 89 309 Cash distributions 272 68 340 Other factors 73 234 1,451 108 1,866 As at 31 December 1,128 2,752 1,451 504 5,835 www.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 116 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For both the Group Investment and Market Risk Committee and the 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL Group Insurance Risk Committee, detailed monitoring of actual risk The pages which follow describe the Groups approach to risk positions to tolerances is performed by business operating units, management.
The first section deals with the overall approach, reporting to the committees and supported, where relevant, by applicable to all risks.
It is followed by a detailed review of risks risk review functions.
within the Groups key businesses.
Group Operational Risk Assessment Committee: The Committee maintains oversight of the overall framework for the management Risk management objectives of operational risk and determines the policy for the management The Group has dened its appetite for risk in relation to its balanced of specic aspects of the Groups operational risk, particularly those scorecard for capital management.
Its primary objective in issues which are common across the Group.
undertaking risk management activity is to manage risk exposures In addition, Risk and Compliance Committees RCCs are in in line with risk appetite, minimising its exposure to unexpected place for each of the Groups main operational businesses.
These financial loss and limiting the potential for deviation from committees are predominantly responsible for reviewing the anticipated outcomes.
management of operational risks and compliance with regulation.
Risk management approach Methods used to monitor and assess risk exposures A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance A continuous Groupwide process is in place formally identifying, and management of risk.
The Group is exposed to insurance, market, evaluating and managing significant risks to the achievement of the credit, liquidity and operational risks and operates a formal risk Groups objectives.
A standard approach is used to assess the risks.
management framework to ensure that all significant risks are Senior management and the risk review functions review the output identied and managed.
The risk factors mentioned below should of the assessments.
A Groupwide risk assessment process is used to not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of determine the key risks within the Group reported to the GRCC.
all potential risks and uncertainties.
Group and business operating unit risk review functions provide Insurance risk: the risk arising from higher claims being experienced oversight of the risk management processes within the Group.
central risk function is responsible for setting the risk management Market risk: the risk arising from uctuations in interest rates, framework and standards.
Risk review functions in each of the exchange rates, share prices and other relevant market prices.
business operating units manage the framework in line with these Credit risk: the risk of loss if another party fails to perform its financial standards.
Their responsibilities include the evaluation of changes obligations to the Group.
in the business operating environment and business processes, the Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group, though solvent, does not have assessment of the impact of these changes on risks to the business sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its and the monitoring of the mitigating actions.
The risk review obligations as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
functions also ensure that the operational business management Operational risk: the risk arising from inadequate or failed internal and RCCs are provided with relevant risk reports and that there is processes, people and systems, or from external events.
appropriate information to assess risk issues.
Risk framework Management of risks Overall responsibility for the management of the Groups exposure The Group seeks to manage its exposures to risk through control to risk is vested in the Group Board.
To support it in this role, a risk techniques which ensure that the residual risk exposures are framework is in place comprising a structure of formal committees, within acceptable tolerances agreed by the Board.
The key risk assessment and reporting processes and risk review functions.
control techniques for the major categories of risk exposure The framework provides assurance that risks are being appropriately are summarised in the following sections.
identied and managed and that an independent assessment of Insurance risk risks is being performed.
Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and Oversight of the risk management framework is performed on arises as a consequence of the type and volume of new business behalf of the Group Board by its sub-committee, the Group Risk written and the concentration of risk in particular policies or and Compliance Committee GRCC.
The GRCC is supported in groups of policies subject to the same risks.
A detailed review this role by the following sub-committees: of the Groups inherent residual risks associated with insurance Group Capital Committee: The Committee assesses the capital products is included in pages 122 to 127.
Insurance risk is requirements including the risk based capital requirements of managed using the following techniques: the Group: monitors the sources of capital available to meet these requirements: oversees the allocation of capital to rms: Policies and delegated authorities for underwriting, and monitors at a Group level a number of performance and pricing and reinsurance capital measures.
Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, Counterparty Credit Committee: The Committee has oversight which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance of counterparty credit risk across the Group, sets the limits for the exposures are limited through reinsurance.
Overall, the Group Groups exposure to any single counterparty failure and manages seeks to be conservative in its acceptance of insurance risks by exposures within these limits.
establishing strict underwriting criteria and limits.
The underwriting Group Investment and Market Risk Committee: The Committee policy is clearly documented, setting out risks which are determines the Groups overall framework for the management unacceptable and the terms applicable for non-standard risks.
of market and liquidity risks and maintains oversight of exposures Reinsurance is used to reduce potential loss to the Group from to ensure that they remain within acceptable tolerances.
individual large risks and catastrophic events.
It may also be used Group Insurance Risk Committee: The Committee determines the to manage capital or to provide access to specialist underwriting Groups overall framework for the management of insurance risk expertise.
The Group makes extensive use of reinsurance for its UK individual protection business, placing a proportion of all risks and maintains oversight of exposures to ensure that they remain within acceptable tolerances.
The Group has also entered into 116 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 117 external reinsurance arrangements, the primary effect of which is cannot be completely eliminated, due to the nature of the to reduce the capital requirements associated with this business.
liabilities and early redemption options contained in the assets.
The principal General insurance reinsurances are excess of loss For businesses where a range of asset types, including equity catastrophe treaties, under which the cost of claims from a weather and property, are held to meet liabilities, the Group uses stochastic event, in excess of an agreed retention level, is recovered from insurers.
models to assess the impact of a range of future return scenarios on Regulatory capital for the General insurance business is also investment values and associated liabilities.
This allows the Group to calculated using FSA pillar 1 and pillar 2 requirements.
The pillar 1 devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy calculation applies xed percentages to premiums and claims.
Pillar which optimises returns to its policyholders over time, whilst limiting 2 creates a higher capital requirement and is therefore applied.
the capital requirements associated with these businesses.
The Group uses this method extensively in connection with its UK US regulatory basis with-profits business.
Required capital is determined to be the Company Action Level Risk Based Capital RBC based on the National Association of Insurance Derivatives Commissioners RBC model.
RBC is a method of measuring the The Group uses derivatives to reduce market risk.
The most widely minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company used derivatives are exchange-traded equity futures and swaps.
to support its overall business operations, taking into account its size The Group may use futures to facilitate efficient asset allocation.
The calculation is based on applying factors to In addition, derivatives are used to improve asset liability matching various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items, with the and to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and ination risks.
factors determined as higher for those items with greater underlying It is the Groups policy that amounts at risk through derivative risk and lower for less risky items.
transactions are covered by cash or corresponding assets and that swaps are collateralised to reduce counterparty exposure.
French and Dutch regulatory bases The minimum required capital is dened by the French Ministry Interest rate risk of Finances Code des Assurances and the fide Nederlandsche Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to lower returns Bank N. V. Dutch Supervisory Body respectively.
The basis of the or loss as a direct or indirect result of uctuations in the value of, or calculation is a percentage of the liabilities plus a percentage income from, specic assets and liabilities arising from changes in of the sum assured at risk and, for some contracts, the premium.
The percentages depend on the guarantees given and the The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on the investment amount of reinsurance cover.
portfolio it maintains to meet the obligations and commitments under its non-linked insurance and investment contracts, in that the Group regulatory basis proceeds from the assets may not be sufficient to meet the Groups In addition to the regulatory capital calculations for the individual obligations to policyholders.
rms, the Group is required to comply with the requirements of the To mitigate the risk that guarantees and commitments are not Insurance Groups Directive IGD.
This is a very prudent measure met, the Group purchases financial instruments, which broadly of capital resources, as it excludes any amount of surplus capital match the expected non-participating policy benets payable, by within a LTF.
The composition of the investment portfolio is governed by the nature of the insurance or savings liabilities, the Reserving policy All subsidiaries writing insurance business have a documented expected rate of return applicable on each class of asset and the capital available to meet the price uctuations for each asset class, reserving policy setting out the basis on which liabilities are to be determined using statistical analysis and actuarial experience.
relative to the liabilities they support.
Additionally, uctuations in interest rates will vary the repayments on variable rate debt issued Policies for each subsidiary are in line with locally established actuarial techniques, relevant regulation and legislation.
Further by the Group Note 36.
Asset liability matching signicantly reduces the Groups exposure details of the assumption setting process are included in Note 35. to interest rate risk.
Sensitivity to interest rate changes is included on Market risk page 126.
The Group is exposed to market risk as a consequence of uctuations in values or returns on assets and liabilities, which are inuenced by one or more external factors, including changes in specified interest rates, financial instrument prices, foreign exchange rates, and indices of prices or rates.
significant areas where the Group is exposed to these risks are: assets backing insurance and investment contracts other than linked contracts: assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: and other financial assets and liabilities.
The Group manages market risk using the following methods: Asset liability matching The Group manages its assets and liabilities in accordance with relevant regulatory requirements, reecting the differing types of liabilities it has in each business.
For business such as immediate annuities, which are sensitive to interest rate risk, analysis of the liabilities is undertaken to create a portfolio of securities, the value of which changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 118 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Currency risk The Group manages its currency risk exposure in the following way: In respect of long term business assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies, the Group protects its exposure to exchange rate uctuations by backing obligations with investments in the same currency.
Balance sheet foreign exchange currency translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows net foreign currency assets to be hedged through the use of derivatives.
Table 3 Currency risk Table 3 summarises the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, in sterling.
Non-linked assets and liabilities are reported in their underlying currency.
Carrying Sterling Euro US Dollar Japanese Yen Other Linked value 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 14 14 Plant and equipment 7432 79 Investments 34,896 3,947 2,810 617 933 233,221 276,424 Purchased interests in long term business 5 14 19 Other operational assets 2,737 202 889 3 8 910 4,749 Total assets 37,726 4,152 3,715 620 941 234,131 281,285 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 1,058 403 1,461 Participating contract liabilities 18,828 1,501 241 20,570 Non-participating contract liabilities 14,451 357 1,189 1 231,781 247,779 Senior borrowings 707 118 489 2 11 1,327 Provisions 594 1 595 Deferred liabilities 591 24 172 2 789 Creditors 596 205 576 1 850 2,228 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 912 912 Total liabilities 36,825 2,609 2,426 3 1 233,797 275,661 Sterling Euro US Dollar Japanese Yen Other Linked Carrying Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated value 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 16 16 Plant and equipment 40 2 1 43 Investments 37,044 3,266 2,339 643 890 169,030 213,212 Purchased interests in long term business 7 16 23 Other operational assets 3,001 198 846 1 525 4,571 Total assets 40,108 3,466 3,202 643 891 169,555 217,865 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 429 389 818 Participating contract liabilities 20,448 1,273 227 21,948 Non-participating contract liabilities 14,121 375 1,149 1 167,972 183,618 Senior borrowings 990 121 496 1,607 Provisions 566 2 568 Deferred liabilities 715 21 158 894 Creditors 610 166 466 1 526 1,769 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 804 804 Total liabilities 37,879 2,347 2,269 2 169,529 212,026 2006 has been restated to reect reallocations between sterling, Euro and linked.
118 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Other price risk Other price risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in market prices, other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
These changes may be as a result of features of the individual instrument, its issuer or factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
The Group controls its exposure to geographic price risks by using internal country credit ratings.
These ratings are based on macroeconomic data and key qualitative indicators.
The latter take into account economic, social and political environments.
Table 4 indicates the Groups exposure to different equity markets around the world.
Linked equity investments are excluded from the table as the risk is retained by the policyholder.
Table 4 Exposure to worldwide equity markets 2007 2006 m m UK 6,285 8,557 North America 524 441 Europe 1,224 1,027 Japan 604 619 Asia Pacic 733 695 Other 25 35 Listed equities 9,395 11,374 Unlisted UK equities 180 201 Holdings in unit trusts 735 1,267 Total equities 10,310 12,842 The Group holds non-linked property investments totalling 3,073m 2006: 3,724m, of which 3,066m 2006: 3,718m are located in the UK.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 120 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
significant areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: The Group holds corporate bonds to back part of its insurance liabilities.
significant exposures are managed by the application of concentration limits, with allowance being made in the actuarial valuation of the insurance liabilities for possible defaults.
The Group limits its exposure to insurance risk by ceding part of the risks it assumes to the reinsurance market.
To limit the risk of reinsurer default the Group operates a credit rating policy when arranging cover.
When selecting new reinsurance partners the Group considers only companies which have a minimum credit rating equivalent to Afrom Standard & Poors.
Exposure limits for new and existing reinsurers are determined based on credit ratings and projected exposure.
Aggregate counterparty exposures are regularly monitored both at an individual subsidiary level and on a Groupwide basis.
The credit prole of the Groups assets exposed to credit risk is shown in Table 5.
The credit rating bands are provided by independent rating agencies.
For unrated assets, the Group maintains internal ratings which are used to manage exposure to these counterparties.
Linked assets have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to risk.
The carrying amount of non-linked assets included in the balance sheet represents the maximum credit exposure.
Unrated cash and cash equivalants include 460m 2006: 210m holdings in commercial paper which are short term instruments which carry a short term rating of A1 A1 from Standard & Poors.
At the year end, the Group held 105m 2006: 200m of collateral in respect of non-linked derivative assets.
120 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Table 6 provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets which have been impaired and the ageing analysis of financial assets which are past due but not impaired.
Linked assets have not been included as they are not directly exposed to credit risk.
Table 6 Ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial assets that Neither past have due nor 0-3 3-6 6 monthsOver been Carrying impaired months months 1 year 1 year impaired value As at 31 December 2007 Notes m m m m m m m Government securities 3,583 3,583 Other xed rate securities 20,629 1 20,629 Variable rate securities 1,941 1,941 Total debt securities 18 i 26,153 1 26,153 Accrued interest 18 i 484 484 Loans and receivables 18 ii 144 144 Derivative assets 19 134 134 Cash equivalents 25 2,672 22 7 3 2,701 Financial assets 29,587 22 7 4 29,616 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 20 1,409 1,409 Other assets 24 606 115 9 11 5 11 746 31,602 137 16 11 5 15 31,771 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial assets that Neither past have due nor 0-3 3-6 6 monthsOver been Carrying impaired months months 1 year 1 year impaired value As at 31 December 2006 Notesmmmmmmm Government securities 5,070 1 5,071 Other xed rate securities 18,362 18,362 Variable rate securities 1,404 1,404 Total debt securities 18 i 24,836 1 24,837 Accrued interest 18 i 413 413 Loans and receivables 18 ii 243 243 Derivative assets 19 40 40 Cash equivalents 25 1,973 1,973 Financial assets 27,505 1 27,506 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 20 1,337 1,337 Other assets 24 694 369 6 5 9 11 1,083 29,536 370 6 5 9 11 29,926 The fair value of collateral held against loans that are past due or impaired at 31 December 2007 was nil 2006: 1m.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 122 Notes to the Financial Statements continued commercial disputes with suppliers.
The risks are actively managed 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued through the Group Legal Risk framework, which defines minimum Liquidity risk standards of control to be applied to minimise the risk of loss.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does Compliance not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet Compliance risk within the Group relates to the risk of nonits obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive adherence to legislative requirements, regulations and internal cost.
The Groups treasury function is responsible for managing the policies and procedures.
Responsibility for ensuring adherence to Groups banking relationships, capital raising activities, overall cash relevant legal and regulatory requirements is vested in individual and liquidity position and the payment of dividends.
They are supported, where appropriate, by seeks to manage funds and liquidity requirements on a pooled business standards functions which assess and confirm that business basis and to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid assets and processes conform to these requirements.
A Group compliance standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash outows.
function has oversight of the Groups compliance with regulatory In addition, it ensures that, even under adverse conditions, the requirements and standards, providing policy advice and guidance Group has access to the funds necessary to cover surrenders, and oversight of compliance arrangements and responsibilities.
In practice, most of the Groups invested assets are marketable securities.
This, combined with the Event fact that a large proportion of the liabilities contain discretionary Event risk relates to the potential for loss arising from external surrender values or surrender charges, reduces the liquidity risk.
The significant events such as terrorism, financial crisis, major changes in Group has in place a 1bn, five year syndicated borrowing facility scal systems or disaster.
Typically, such events have a low likelihood which provides exibility in the management of the Groups liquidity.
of occurrence, a material impact and can be difficult to prevent.
The Groups risk mitigation focuses on minimising the business Operational risk disruption and potential financial loss which may ensue from Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate such an event.
This includes maintaining a framework for the or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external management of major incidents, the maintenance and regular events.
There are a number of headings under which operational testing of detailed business, technical and location recovery risk and its management across the Group can be considered.
plans and the provision of insurance cover for the loss of buildings, Identied control issues are escalated to business unit RCCs.
contents and information technology IT systems and for the Internal process failure increased cost of working in the event of business disruption.
The Group is exposed to the risk of loss from failure of the internal Fraud processes with which it transacts its business.
Each subsidiary The Group is exposed to the risk of internal fraud, claim related is responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the controls over fraud, and external action by third parties.
The risk of internal fraud its processes and regular reviews are undertaken of their is managed through a number of processes including the screening appropriateness and effectiveness.
All business managers are of staff at recruitment, segregation of duties and whistle-blowing required to confirm regularly the adequacy of controls from these policies.
The activities of internal audit also act to counter the risk.
reviews to business unit RCCs, the GRCC and the Group Audit Claims-related fraud is managed by ensuring business processes Committee.
significant control issues which business areas identify are designed to validate fully claims and ensure that only bona fide are escalated to business unit RCCs, which oversee their resolution.
Anti-fraud techniques are regularly updated to People mitigate risks and emerging threats.
The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of loss from Technology inappropriate actions by its staff.
The risk is actively managed The Group places a high degree of reliance on IT in its business by business management and human resource HR functions.
The failure of IT systems could potentially expose the Recruitment is managed centrally by HR functions, and all new Group to significant business disruption and loss.
To mitigate this risk, recruits undergo a formal induction programme.
All employees standards and methodologies for developing, testing and operating have job descriptions setting out their accountabilities and reporting IT systems are maintained.
There is a centralised management for lines, and are appraised annually in accordance with agreed development activity and production systems to ensure consistency performance management frameworks.
Employees in regulated and adherence to standards.
Disaster recovery facilities enable IT subsidiaries are provided with appropriate training to enable them operations to be conducted at remote locations in the event of the to meet the relevant regulatory requirements.
Risks relating to health loss of computer facilities at a principal ofce site.
All records are and safety and other legislation are managed through the provision remotely backed up and computer suites are equipped with of relevant training to all staff.
Outsourcing Concentration of risk The Group is potentially exposed to the actions or failure of suppliers As part of the ongoing risk assessment processes the Group contracted to provide services on an outsourced basis.
The required considers the concentration of risk.
The Group seeks to manage minimum standards of control for outsourced arrangements are set concentrations by setting limits around the maximum exposure out in the Groups outsourcing and key supplier policy.
Compliance to loss that it can tolerate from a series of related events.
Limits set with this policy is monitored by business management and include maximum exposures to single lives, geographic locations, adherence is reported through the regular controls conrmation process undertaken across the Group.
financial instruments and reinsurance balances.
Legal UK life and pensions Legal risk is the risk of loss from unclear or deficient product UK life and pensions products are structured as either participating documentation: inadequate documentation in support of material or non-participating.
The level of shareholders interest in the value contracts such as reassurance treaties: the incorrect interpretation of of policies and their share of the related profit or loss varies changes in legislation: employment related disputes and claims: and depending upon the contract structure.
122 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
The total of such annuities in payment at 31 December 2007 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued was 162m 2006: 136m.
Thus, 1% negative ination, which was Non-participating contracts reversed in the following year would result in a guarantee cost of Non-participating business is written mainly in the non profit part approximately 2m 2006: 1m.
Negative ination sustained over of the Society LTF.
profits accrue solely to shareholders.
In addition, a longer period would give rise to signicantly greater guarantee there is some non-participating business in the with-profits part of costs.
Some of these guarantee costs have been partially matched the Society LTF where the profits are shared, between participating through the purchase of negative ination hedges and limited price policyholders and shareholders.
Protection business individual and group Key risk factors The Group offers protection products which provide mortality or a Insurance risk morbidity benets and may include health, disability, critical illness i Mortality risk and accident benets.
These additional benets are commonly For contracts providing death benets, higher mortality rates provided as supplements to main life policies but can also be sold would lead to an increase in claims costs.
For annuity contracts, the separately.
The benefit amounts would usually be specified in the Group is exposed to the risk that mortality experience is lower than policy terms.
Some sickness benets cover the policyholders assumed.
Lower than expected mortality would require payments mortgage repayments and are linked to the prevailing mortgage to be made for longer and increase the cost of benets provided.
In addition to these benets, some contracts may The Group regularly reviews its mortality experience and industry guarantee premium rates, provide guaranteed insurability benets projections of longevity and adjusts the valuation and pricing and offer policyholders conversion options.
The Group is exposed to mortality risk on protection and annuity Life savings business business.
For protection products, the Group has entered into A range of contracts are offered in a variety of different forms to reinsurance arrangements to mitigate this risk and provide meet customers long term savings objectives.
Annuity contracts are not generally reinsured externally.
choose to include a number of protection benets within their savings contracts.
Typically, any guarantees under the contract ii Persistency would only apply on maturity or earlier death.
On certain older In the early years of a policy, lapses and surrenders are likely to result contracts there may be provisions guaranteeing surrender benets.
in a loss to the Group, as the acquisition costs associated with the Savings contracts may or may not guarantee policyholders an contract would not have been recovered from product margins.
Where the return is guaranteed, the Group may Some contracts include surrender penalties to mitigate this risk.
be exposed to interest rate risk with respect to the backing assets.
In later periods, once the acquisition costs have been recouped, the effect of lapses and surrenders depends upon the relationship Pensions individual and corporate between the exit benefit, if any, and the liability for that contract.
These are long term savings contracts through which policyholders Exit benets are not generally guaranteed and the Group has some accumulate pension benets.
Some older contracts contain a basic discretion in determining the amount of the payment.
As a result, the guaranteed benefit expressed as an amount of pension payable or effect on profit at later duration is expected to be broadly neutral.
a guaranteed annuity option, which exposes the Group to interest Following the adoption of PS06 14 in 2006 the persistency rate and longevity risk.
These guarantees become more costly assumption for non-participating protection business allows for the during periods when interest rates are low or when annuitant expected pattern of persistency, adjusted to incorporate a margin mortality improves faster than expected.
The ultimate cost will for adverse deviation.
Previously, the liabilities were established so also depend on the take-up rate of any option and the final form that they were sufficient to cover the more onerous of the two of annuity selected by the policyholder.
scenarios, in which the policies either remain in force until maturity, Other options provided by these contracts include an open or discontinue at the valuation date.
market option on maturity, early retirement and late retirement.
There is no persistency risk exposure for annuities in payment.
The Group would generally have discretion over the terms on These contracts do not provide a lapse or surrender option.
which these options are offered.
iii Morbidity rates Annuities The cost of health related claims depends on both the incidence Deferred and immediate annuity contracts are offered.
Immediate of policyholders becoming ill and the duration over which they annuities provide a regular income stream to the policyholder, remain ill. Higher than expected incidence and duration would purchased with a lump sum investment, where the income stream increase costs over the level currently assumed in the calculation starts immediately after the purchase.
The income stream from a of liabilities.
deferred annuity is delayed until a specified future date.
Bulk annuities are also offered, where the Group manages the assets and iv Expense variances accepts the liabilities of a company pension scheme or a life fund.
Higher expenses and or expense ination will tend to increase the Non-participating deferred annuities written by the Group do not amount of the reserves required.
The Group is exposed to the risk contain guaranteed cash options.
that its liabilities are not sufficient to cover future expenses.
Annuity products provide guaranteed income for a specified v Geographic concentrations of risk time, usually the life of the policyholder, in exchange for a lump sum Insurance risk may be concentrated in geographic regions, altering capital payment.
No surrender value is available under any of these the risk prole of the Group.
The most significant exposure of this products.
The primary risks to the Group from annuity products are therefore mortality improvements and investment performance.
type arises for the group protection business, where a single event could result in a large number of related claims.
To reduce the There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within the UK non profit business with benets linked to changes in the RPI, but overall exposure, current contracts include an event limit which with contractual maximum or minimum increases.
In particular, most caps the total liability.
Additionally, excess of loss reinsurance of these annuities have a provision that the annuity will not reduce if arrangements further mitigate the exposure.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 124 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Bonus rates will be smoothed so that some of the short term 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued uctuations in the value of the investments of the with-profits part vi Epidemics of the Society LTF and the business results achieved in the withThe spread of an epidemic could cause large aggregate claims profits part of the UK LTF are not immediately reected in across the Groups portfolio.
Quota share reinsurance contracts payments under with-profits policies.
are used to manage this risk.
Some older participating contracts include a guaranteed minimum vii Accumulation of risks rate of roll up of the policyholders fund up to the date of retirement There is limited potential for single incidents to give rise to a large or maturity.
number of claims across the different contract types written by the The nature of the participating contracts written in the with-profits Group.
In particular, there is little significant overlap between the part of the Society LTF is that more emphasis can be placed on long term and short term insurance business written by the Group.
investing to maximise future investment returns.
This results in a However, there are potentially material correlations of insurance broader range of investments being held within the fund.
risk with other types of risk exposure.
These correlations are difficult With-profits bonds to estimate though they would tend to be more acute as the These contracts provide an investment return to the policyholder underlying risk scenarios became more extreme.
An example of which is determined by the attribution of regular and final bonuses the accumulation of risk is the correlation between reinsurer credit over the duration of the contract.
In addition, the contracts provide risk with mortality and morbidity exposures.
a death benefit, typically of 101% of the value of the units allocated b Market risk to the policyholder.
Investment of the assets backing the Group liabilities reects the Pension contracts nature of the liabilities being supported.
For non-participating The Group has sold pension contracts containing guaranteed business, the objective is to maximise profits, while ensuring stability, annuity options which expose the Group to both interest rate and by closely matching the cash ows of assets and liabilties.
The market consistent value of these guarantees this matching, the strategy is to invest in xed income securities of carried in the balance sheet is 59m 2006: 75m.
Interest rate risk is reduced by managing the duration and Deferred annuity contracts maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to The Group has written some deferred annuity contracts which the estimated duration of the liabilities it supports.
These options expose the Group of derivatives are held to enable the closer matching of assets to interest rate risk as the cost would be expected to increase with and liabilities and to mitigate further exposure to interest rate interest rates.
The market consistent value of these guarantees movements, in particular, to limit the exposure to any options carried in the balance sheet is 111m 2006: 114m.
Key risk factors In addition, the exposure to these risks is allowed for in the The insurance and market risk exposures for participating business actuarial valuation of liabilities under these contracts.
are largely the same as those discussed for non-participating Participating contracts contracts.
The main differences in the operation of these contracts Participating contracts are supported by the with-profits part of the are discussed below.
They offer policyholders the possibility of the payment a Insurance risk of benets in addition to those guaranteed by the contract.
The i Persistency amount and timing of the additional benets usually called At early durations, the nature of the persistency risks on with-profits bonuses are contractually at the discretion of the Group.
business is largely the same as for non-participating business and is Policyholders and shareholders share in the risks and returns of inuenced mainly by the ability to recover acquisition costs from the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The return to shareholders product margins.
At later durations, there is less scope for withdrawal on virtually all participating products is in the form of a transfer to to result in a loss for the Group as these contracts typically provide shareholders equity, which is analogous to a dividend from the explicit allowances for market conditions.
Allowance for future Society LTF and is dependent upon the bonuses credited or withdrawals is made in the assessment of participating contract declared on policies in that year.
The bonuses are broadly based liabilities.
The Group is generally exposed to the risk that future on historic and current rates of return on equity, property and xed withdrawals are lower than assumed, resulting in higher future income securities, as well as expectations of future investment returns.
Discretionary increases to benets on participating contracts are allowed in one or both of regular and final bonus form.
These b Market risk bonuses are determined in accordance with the principles outlined The financial risk exposure for participating contracts is different in the Groups PPFM for the management of the with-profits part from that for non-participating business.
Greater emphasis is placed of the Society LTF.
The principles include: on investing to maximise future investment returns rather than The with-profits part of the Society LTF will be managed with matching assets to liabilities.
This results in holding significant equity the objective of ensuring that its assets are sufficient to meet and property investments.
Lower investment returns increase the its liabilities without the need for additional capital.
costs associated with maturity and investment guarantees provided With-profits policies have no expectation of any distribution on these contracts.
from the with-profits part of the Society LTFs inherited estate.
The These risks are managed by maintaining capital sufficient to cover inherited estate is the excess of assets held within the Society LTF the consequences of mismatch under a number of adverse over and above the amount required to meet liabilities, including scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
In addition, different those which arise from the regulatory duty to treat customers fairly investment strategies are followed for assets backing policyholder in settling discretionary benets.
asset shares and assets backing other participating liabilities and 124 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 125 initial period with premiums increasing annually thereafter.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued the initial period, there is generally an option to convert the contract surplus.
The former include significant equity and property holdings, to a universal life contract.
After the initial period, the premium rates whilst the latter are invested largely in xed interest securities and are not guaranteed, but cannot exceed the age related are managed so as to provide a partial hedge to movements in guaranteed premium.
Reinsurance is used to reduce the insurance risk on this portfolio The methodology used to calculate the liabilities for participating and manage liquidity risks, through the reinsurance commission contracts makes allowance for the possibility of adverse changes in received under quota share arrangements.
Reinsurance and investment markets on a basis consistent with the market cost of securitisation are used to provide regulatory solvency relief hedging the guarantees provided.
The methodology also makes including relief from regulation Triple X.
These practices lead to the allowance for the cost of future discretionary benets, guarantees establishment of reinsurance assets on the Groups balance sheet.
The universal life insurance and deferred annuities provide a The value of future discretionary benets depends on the return savings element.
In addition to the savings component, the universal achieved on assets backing these contracts.
The asset mix varies life contract provides substantial death benets over the medium to with investment conditions reecting the Groups investment policy, long term.
The savings element has a guaranteed minimum growth which aims to optimise returns to policyholders over time whilst rate.
LGA has exposure to loss in the event that interest rates limiting capital requirements for this business.
decrease and it is unable to earn enough on the underlying assets The distribution of surplus to shareholders depends upon the to cover the guaranteed rate.
LGA is also exposed to loss should bonuses declared for the period.
Typically, bonus rates are set interest rates increase, as the underlying market value of assets will having regard to investment returns, although the Group has some generally fall without a change in the surrender value.
The reserves discretion setting rates and would normally smooth bonuses over for universal life and deferred annuities totalled $758m and $248m time.
The volatility of investment returns could have both a respectively at 31 December 2007 2006: $766m and $272m favourable and unfavourable impact on the funds capital position respectively.
The guaranteed interest rates associated with those and its ability to pay bonuses.
If future investment conditions were reserves ranged from 0.0% to 6.0%, with the majority of the policies less favourable than anticipated, the lower bonus levels resulting having a 4.0% guaranteed rate the same rates applied in 2006. would also reduce future distributions to shareholders.
The deferred annuity contracts also contain a provision that, However, business which is written in the with-profits part of the at maturity, a policyholder may move the account value into an Society LTF is managed to be self-supporting.
The unallocated immediate annuity, at rates which are either those currently in divisible surplus in the fund would normally be expected to absorb effect, or rates guaranteed in the contract.
The other annuity the impact of these investment risks.
Only in extreme scenarios, contracts have similar risks to those in the UK.
where shareholders were required to provide capital support to the Legal & General Netherlands LGN with-profits part of the Society LTF, would these risks affect equity.
LGN principally writes non-participating individual unit linked The Groups approach to setting bonus rates is designed to treat savings, protection and annuity business.
The unit linked savings customers fairly.
The approach is set out in the Societys PPFM for the business generally includes an element of exposure to mortality risk.
with-profits part of the Society LTF.
In addition, bonus declarations The individual term assurances provide death benets over the are also affected by FSA regulations relating to Treating Customers medium to long term.
Reinsurance is used to reduce the share of Fairly TCF, which limit the discretion available when setting bonus insurance risk.
The Groups approach to setting bonuses and meeting the The annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK: however, FSAs TCF regulations may increase the Groups exposure to market the majority of annuity business has a term of three years or less.
risk should the ability to cut bonuses, during periods when investment returns are poor, be reduced.
Legal & General France LGF LGF writes a range of long term insurance and investment business Linked contracts through its subsidiaries.
The principal products written are life For linked contracts, there is a direct link between the investments assurance and pensions savings, group protection, annuities and and the obligations.
Linked business is written in both the Society LTF open ended investment vehicles.
The financial risk on these contracts is borne The group protection business consists of group term assurance, by the policyholders.
The Group is, therefore, not exposed to any renewable on an annual basis, sickness and disability, and medical market risk, currency risk or credit risk for these contracts.
The group sickness and disability and medical primary exposure to financial risk from these contracts is the risk of expenses policies integrate with social security benets providing volatility in asset management fees due to the impact of interest a level of top-up to those benets.
Reinsurance is used to manage rate and market price movements on the fair value of the assets exposure to large individual and group claims.
held in the linked funds, on which investment management fees are The annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK.
The Group is also exposed to the risk of an expense overrun should the market depress the level of charges which could be imposed, although for some contracts the Group has discretion over the level of management charges levied.
International life and pensions Legal & General America LGA The principal products written by LGA are individual term assurance, universal life insurance and smaller blocks of deferred and immediate annuities.
The individual term assurances provide death benets over the medium to long term.
The contracts have level premiums for an www.
qxd:23148 p092-127 31 3 08 16:34 Page 126 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 49.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Sensitivity analysis Table 7 below shows the effect of alternative assumptions on the long term embedded value, prepared in accordance with the guidance issued by the CFO Forum in October 2005.
These sensitivities correspond to those contained within the Supplementary Financial Statements on page 144 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Table 7 Effect on embedded value 1% lower 1% higher 1% higher risk risk 1% lower 1% higher equity As discount discount interest interest property published rate rate rate rate yields As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Life and pensions UK 7,293 355 311 182 201 170 International 1,101 86 74 19 23 5 Total life and pensions 8,394 441 385 201 224 175 10% lower 10% lower 5% lower 5% lower equity maintmortality mortality As property enance 10% lower UK other published values expenses lapse rates annuities business As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Life and pensions UK 7,293 277 71 78 119 39 International 1,101 8 12 43 n a 65 Total life and pensions 8,394 285 83 121 119 104 1% lower 1% higher 1% higher 10% lower risk risk 1% lower equity equity As discount discount interest property property published rate rate rate yields values As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Life and pensions UK 6,256 431 376 138 275 290 International 913 61 54 8 5 6 Total life and pensions 7,169 492 430 130 280 296 10% lower 5% lower 5% lower maintmortality mortality As enance 10% lower UK other published expenses lapse rates annuities business As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m Life and pensions UK 6,256 59 71 104 33 International 913 10 34 n a 67 Total life and pensions 7,169 69 105 104 100 Opposite sensitivities are broadly symmetrical.
The Group uses embedded value EV financial information to manage and monitor performance, and hence the financial risks, as it is believed to provide information about the value which is being created on the Groups long term insurance contracts.
EV information is calculated for the Groups life and pensions business and for UK managed pension funds covered business.
All other businesses are accounted for on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
The EV methodology requires assets of an insurance company, as reported in the primary financial statements, to be attributed between those supporting the covered business and the remainder.
The method accounts for assets in the covered business on an EV basis and the remainder of the Groups assets on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
Sensitivities have been presented for covered business only.
In this context the non covered business is considered not to be material.
Cash ow projections are determined using realistic assumptions for each component of cash ow and for each policy group.
Future economic and investment return assumptions are based on conditions at the end of the financial year.
Future investment returns are projected by one of two methods.
The first method is based on an assumed investment return attributed to assets at their market value.
The second, which is used in the US, where the investments of that subsidiary are substantially all xed interest, projects the cash ows from the current portfolio of assets and assumes an investment return on reinvestment of surplus cash ows.
The assumed discount and ination rates are consistent with the investment return assumptions.
The main assumptions are provided on page 145 in the Supplementary Financial Statements.
The Groups management of currency risk reduces shareholders exposure to exchange rate uctuations.
The Groups exposure to a 10% exchange movement in the Dollar and Euro on an IFRS basis, net of hedging activities, is detailed in Table 8 on page 127.
126 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p092-127.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Table 8 Currency sensitivity analysis Impact on Impact on pre-tax Impact on pre-tax Impact on profit equity profit equity 2007 2007 2006 2006 Currency sensitivity test m m m m 10% Euro appreciation 45 24 38 10% Dollar appreciation 39 2 14 13 UK General insurance Domestic mortgage indemnity DMI.
These contracts primarily in Household contracts.
These provide cover in respect of run-off protect a mortgage lender should an insured property be policyholders homes, investment properties, contents, personal repossessed and subsequently sold at a loss.
Since 1993, the contract has included a maximum period of cover of 10 years, belongings and incidental liabilities which they may incur as a and a cap on the maximum claim.
For business accepted prior property owner, occupier and individual.
Exposure is normally to 1993, cover is unlimited and lasts until the insured property is limited to the rebuilding cost of the home, the replacement cost remortgaged or redeemed.
of belongings and a policy limit in respect of liability claims.
LGI uses reinsurance to manage the exposure to an accumulation of Key risk factors claims arising from any one incident, usually severe weather.
The Weather events catastrophe cover reinsures LGI for losses between 30m and significant weather events such as windstorms, and coastal and river 230m 2006: 30m and 250m for a single weather event.
oods can lead to significant claims.
These contracts provide cover in respect of The insurance of properties which are concentrated in high risk customers private cars and their liability to third parties in respect areas, or an above average market share in a particular region, can of damage to property and injury.
Exposure is normally limited to give rise to a concentration of insurance risk.
This risk is managed by the replacement value of the vehicle, and a policy limit in respect ensuring that the risk acceptance policy, terms and premiums both of third party property damage.
Exposure to third party bodily injury reect the expected claim cost associated with the location and is unlimited in accordance with statutory requirements.
The motor avoid adverse selection.
Additionally, exposure and competitor book is in run-off, the final policy having expired in August 2007, activity is monitored by location to ensure that there is a geographic but it is expected to be several years until the final claim is settled.
Catastrophe reinsurance cover reduces the Groups exposure to concentrations of risk.
The catastrophe Accident, sickness and unemployment ASU.
These contracts reinsurance is designed to protect against a modelled windstorm provide cover in respect of continuing payment liabilities incurred and coastal ood event with a return probability of 1 in 200 years.
by customers when they are unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
They protect predominantly Subsidence mortgage payments.
Exposure is limited to the monthly payment The incidence of subsidence can have a significant impact on the level selected by the customer sufficient to cover the payment and level of claims on household policies.
The Groups underwriting and associated costs, up to the duration limit specified in the policy.
reinsurance strategy mitigates the exposure to concentrations of risk Healthcare.
These contracts are primarily private medical arising from geographic location or adverse selection.
insurance, which compensate customers for the costs of eligible Unlimited motor claims medical consultations, diagnostic tests, in-patient, day care and A single motor policy can result in major multiple liability claims outpatient treatment up to the limits specified in the policy.
To mitigate this risk, accident excess of loss are mainly exposed to the underlying incidence of morbidity, reinsurance is in place for claims in excess of 1m 2006: 1m.
medical claims ination and advances in medical treatments.
Following the withdrawal from the healthcare business in February Sensitivity analysis 2007, the healthcare book is in run-off, with the final policies due Table 9 shows material sensitivities for the General insurance business to expire in mid 2008. on pre-tax profit and equity, net of reinsurance.
Table 9 General insurance sensitivity analysis Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on pre-tax profit equity pre-tax profit equity net of net of net of net of reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m Sensitivity test Single storm event with 1 in 200 year probability 42 29 30 21 Subsidence event worst claim ratio in last 30 years 36 25 37 26 Repeat of 1990 recession on ASU DMI household accounts 54 38 52 36 5% decrease in overall claims ratio 13 9 15 11 5% surplus over claims liabilities 75 75 For any single event with claims in excess of 30m but less than 230m, the ultimate cost to the Group would be 30m.
The impact of a 1 in 500 year modelled windstorm and coastal ood event would exceed the catastrophe cover by approximately 95m.
