THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 49 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES REVERSE ACQUISITION The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in The Company was incorporated on 18 February 2005 as Milescreen accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Limited and changed its name to London Stock Exchange Group Limited Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union, and on 16 November 2005.
On 7 December 2005 the Company re-registered with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies as a public limited company pursuant to section 43 of the Companies Act reporting under IFRS.
1985 and became London Stock Exchange Group plc.
On 15 May 2006 the Company became the holding company of London Stock Exchange plc The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the convention and on the basis of the principal accounting policies set out Companies Act 1985 the Scheme.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, all having co-terminous Under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, this group reconstruction accounting periods, with all inter-company balances and transactions effected by the Scheme has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Although the consolidated financial statements have been prepared Companys income statement has not been included in these financial in the name of the legal parent, the Company, they are in substance statements.
The Companys recognised income and expense is disclosed a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of the legal within note 24. subsidiary, London Stock Exchange plc.
The following accounting treatment has been applied in respect of the reverse acquisition: RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS a The following amendment to a published IFRS standard was effective a The assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiary, London Stock Exchange in the year ended 31 March 2007: plc, are recognised and measured in the consolidated financial statements at the pre-combination carrying amounts, without IAS 19 Amendment Employee Bene ts.
This amendment introduces restatement to fair value: the option of an alternative recognition approach for actuarial gains and losses and adds new disclosure requirements.
The Group b The retained loss earnings and other equity balances recognised in recognises in full through equity all actuarial gains and losses in the the consolidated financial statements re ect the retained earnings period.
The implementation of this amendment had no impact on and other equity balances of London Stock Exchange plc immediately the Groups consolidated financial statements during the year as the before the business combination, and the results of the period from amendment was early adopted on transition to IFRS.
1 April 2006 to the date of the business combination are those of London Stock Exchange plc as the Company did not trade prior to the b Standards that have been early adopted by the Group: Scheme.
However, the equity structure appearing in the consolidated financial statements re ects the equity structure of the legal parent, IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective for London Stock Exchange Group plc, including the equity instruments annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
This interpretation issued under the Scheme to effect the business combination: and does not have any impact on the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
c Comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial statements are those reported in the consolidated financial statements c The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations have been issued but are of the legal subsidiary, London Stock Exchange plc, for the year ended not yet mandatory: 31 March 2006.
IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures and the complementary The Company had no signi cant assets, liabilities or contingent amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital liabilities of its own at the time that the Scheme took effect and disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after no cash consideration was paid in respect of the business combination.
1 January 2007 introduces new disclosures for financial instruments.
Accordingly no cash ow statement is presented for the Company for The Group will apply IFRS 7 from 1 April 2007, but is not expected to the period ended 31 March 2006. have a material impact on the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
Transaction costs of equity transactions relating to the issue of the Companys shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
The Group will apply IFRIC 8 from 1 April 2007, but ACCOUNTING POLICIES it is not expected to have any impact on the Companys and Groups Revenue consolidated financial statements.
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for the provision of goods and services, excluding value added tax.
Revenue is recognised IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for annual in the period when the service or supply is provided: periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
The Group will apply IFRIC 9 from 1 April 2007, but it is not expected to have any impact on the a Annual fees are recognised over the 12 month period to which the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
fee relates: IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for b Admission fees are recognised at the time of admission to trading: annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 April 2007, but it is not expected to have any c Data, transaction and Exchange charges are recognised in the month impact on the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
in which the data is provided or the transaction is effected: and All other IFRS and IFRIC interpretations issued in the year are not d Royalties are recognised in the 12 month period to which the relevant to the Groups operations.
50 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events Exceptional items indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and for in the Companys financial statements at cost less accumulated are non-recurring are classi ed as exceptional items on the face of the impairment losses.
income statement within their relevant category.
The separate reporting of these items helps give an indication of the Groups underlying Cash and cash equivalents performance.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and term deposits that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject Foreign currencies to insigni cant risk of changes in value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
Financial instruments a Investments other than xed deposits and interests in joint ventures Transactions in foreign currencies and currency balances at the year end and subsidiaries are designated as available for sale and are recorded are converted at the rate ruling at the transaction date or year end date on trade date at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in respectively, with any gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Where the fair value is not reliably measurable, the investment is held at cost: Intangible assets a Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess b Foreign currency derivatives are recorded at fair value.
The method of consideration paid over the identi able fair value of net assets of recording gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is acquired.
It is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses: and hedged.
Where they meet the relevant criteria in IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group designates b Third party software costs for the development and implementation foreign currency derivatives as cash ow hedges with the movement of systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are in fair value recognised in equity.
Amounts recognised in equity capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives, which are transferred to the income statement when the hedged item is is an average of three years.
recognised in the income statement.
Any movements in fair value in respect of foreign currency derivatives which do not qualify as highly Property, plant and equipment effective cash ow hedges under IAS 39 are recognised immediately a Freehold properties, including related xed plant, are included in the in the income statement: financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Freehold buildings and related xed plant are c The Companys own shares held by the ESOP trust are deducted from depreciated to residual value, based on cost at the beginning of the equity until they vest unconditionally in employees and are held at year plus subsequent additions, over their estimated economic lives.
cost: and The estimated useful lives of properties are approximately 50 years, the estimated useful lives of xed plant range from five to 20 years: d Consideration paid in respect of own shares is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
b Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated to residual value over the shorter of the period of the Provisions lease or the economic life of the asset: and A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable c Plant and equipment is stated at cost and is depreciated to residual that a transfer of economic bene ts will be required to settle the value on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of assets, which are mainly in the range from three to five years.
The Group selects its depreciation rates based on expected Borrowings economic lives, taking into account the expected rate of technological Bank borrowings are recorded initially as proceeds received, net of developments, market requirements and expected use of the assets.
The direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
selected rates are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest to the Groups circumstances.
Residual values and economic lives are charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings reviewed at each balance sheet date.
using the effective interest rate method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are also charged to the Joint ventures income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective Investments in joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method interest rate method.
and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of pro ts or losses after tax from joint ventures is included in the consolidated income Redeemable Class B shares issued in connection with the capital return statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against are carried at amortised cost, and presented as a financial liability, in the carrying amount of the investment in the Groups balance sheet.
line with IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The dividend accrued in respect of the Class B shares has been classi ed within finance costs in the income statement.
