THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 49 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES REVERSE ACQUISITION The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in The Company was incorporated on 18 February 2005 as Milescreen accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Limited and changed its name to London Stock Exchange Group Limited Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union, and on 16 November 2005.
On 7 December 2005 the Company re-registered with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies as a public limited company pursuant to section 43 of the Companies Act reporting under IFRS.
1985 and became London Stock Exchange Group plc.
On 15 May 2006 the Company became the holding company of London Stock Exchange plc The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the convention and on the basis of the principal accounting policies set out Companies Act 1985 the Scheme.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, all having co-terminous Under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, this group reconstruction accounting periods, with all inter-company balances and transactions effected by the Scheme has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Although the consolidated financial statements have been prepared Companys income statement has not been included in these financial in the name of the legal parent, the Company, they are in substance statements.
The Companys recognised income and expense is disclosed a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of the legal within note 24. subsidiary, London Stock Exchange plc.
The following accounting treatment has been applied in respect of the reverse acquisition: RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS a The following amendment to a published IFRS standard was effective a The assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiary, London Stock Exchange in the year ended 31 March 2007: plc, are recognised and measured in the consolidated financial statements at the pre-combination carrying amounts, without IAS 19 Amendment Employee Bene ts.
This amendment introduces restatement to fair value: the option of an alternative recognition approach for actuarial gains and losses and adds new disclosure requirements.
The Group b The retained loss earnings and other equity balances recognised in recognises in full through equity all actuarial gains and losses in the the consolidated financial statements re ect the retained earnings period.
The implementation of this amendment had no impact on and other equity balances of London Stock Exchange plc immediately the Groups consolidated financial statements during the year as the before the business combination, and the results of the period from amendment was early adopted on transition to IFRS.
1 April 2006 to the date of the business combination are those of London Stock Exchange plc as the Company did not trade prior to the b Standards that have been early adopted by the Group: Scheme.
However, the equity structure appearing in the consolidated financial statements re ects the equity structure of the legal parent, IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective for London Stock Exchange Group plc, including the equity instruments annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
This interpretation issued under the Scheme to effect the business combination: and does not have any impact on the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
c Comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial statements are those reported in the consolidated financial statements c The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations have been issued but are of the legal subsidiary, London Stock Exchange plc, for the year ended not yet mandatory: 31 March 2006.
IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures and the complementary The Company had no signi cant assets, liabilities or contingent amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital liabilities of its own at the time that the Scheme took effect and disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after no cash consideration was paid in respect of the business combination.
1 January 2007 introduces new disclosures for financial instruments.
Accordingly no cash ow statement is presented for the Company for The Group will apply IFRS 7 from 1 April 2007, but is not expected to the period ended 31 March 2006. have a material impact on the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
Transaction costs of equity transactions relating to the issue of the Companys shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
The Group will apply IFRIC 8 from 1 April 2007, but ACCOUNTING POLICIES it is not expected to have any impact on the Companys and Groups Revenue consolidated financial statements.
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for the provision of goods and services, excluding value added tax.
Revenue is recognised IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for annual in the period when the service or supply is provided: periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
The Group will apply IFRIC 9 from 1 April 2007, but it is not expected to have any impact on the a Annual fees are recognised over the 12 month period to which the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
fee relates: IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for b Admission fees are recognised at the time of admission to trading: annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 April 2007, but it is not expected to have any c Data, transaction and Exchange charges are recognised in the month impact on the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements.
in which the data is provided or the transaction is effected: and All other IFRS and IFRIC interpretations issued in the year are not d Royalties are recognised in the 12 month period to which the relevant to the Groups operations.
