68 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
SHARE SCHEMES The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2004 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Exchanges shares.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
Under the Groups previous share option plan approved by shareholders in 2002, the maximum value of shares placed under option to an individual was equivalent to 100 per cent of their annual salary.
No further awards will be made under this scheme.
Prior to 2002, under the previous long term incentive scheme comprising the Initial and Annual Share Plans option grants and share awards were made based on approvals prior to the Groups listing in July 2001.
No further option grants or share awards will be made under this scheme apart from the SAYE schemes available to all staff.
Under both the Initial and Annual Share Plans, share awards have a vesting period of three years and share options become exercisable at 20 per cent per annum over five years with a contractual life of 10 years.
The SAYE scheme provides for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and share options were granted at fair market value or above.
The Group established an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the Group company shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end 2,849,438 2006: 428,529 shares were held by the trust, funded by an interest free loan from the Group.
The Company has no employees, but in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements and the cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
