THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 51 Operating leases 2.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES Rental costs for operating leases are charged to the income statement Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical on a straight-line basis.
Lease incentives are spread over the term of experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
Provision is made in the accounts for lease commitments, less income from sub-letting, for property space which is surplus to business The critical judgements and estimates made in the preparation of the requirements.
Such provisions are discounted where the time value of financial statements set out below are made in accordance with the money is considered material.
appropriate IFRS and the Groups accounting policy.
The resulting accounting estimate may not equal the related actual result: Pension costs The Group operates fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution pension a The determination of the fide ned bene t pension liability is based schemes.
For the fide ned bene t scheme the service cost, representing on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions bene ts accruing to employees, is included as an operating expense and determined by the Group with advice from an independent quali ed the expected return on scheme assets and interest cost from unwinding actuary: of the discount on scheme obligations are included as finance income and finance costs respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from b The property provision is determined taking into consideration future experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions or differences expected receipts from sub-letting and future property costs based on between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised at each advice from independent property advisers: period end net of tax in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet c Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts comprises the difference between the present value of pension of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
For fide ned contribution using managements best estimate of future business performance: schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
d Signi cant estimates are required in determining the provision for Deferred taxation income taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary charge at the period end and where the final tax liability is different differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and from that estimate, such differences are re ected in the period in their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is which such determination is made: and determined using tax rates that are substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or e The determination of the future value of the subsidiary, London Stock liability settled.
Exchange plc, is based on its future earnings potential.
The basis of such value cannot be precise and is subject to market variations.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future taxable pro ts.
Share based compensation The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by the fair value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised over the relevant vesting period.
The transactions are equity-settled in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 2, Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
