Awards will be transferred at levels above this on a linear sliding scale.
Full benefits of an award can only be transferred when annual Return on Equity has averaged 30% or more.
Entitlements are subject to an additional one-year restriction on transfer to participants dependent upon continued employment with the Group.
During the year, the 2002 awards vested at 100% and were transferred in June 2006.
The 2003 awards will vest at 100% and will be transferred later in the year.
b Shares awarded to Peter Clarke, Kevin Davis and Stanley Fink in 2002 and to Chris Chambers in 2003, and matching shares awarded to Peter Clarke, Kevin Davis and Stanley Fink in 2002 and Chris Chambers in 2003 under the Performance Share Plan were transferred to them on 21 June 2006.
The share price was 396.83 pence at that date giving the following market values: Peter Clarke 1,909,927: Kevin Davis 1,165,085: Stanley Fink 8,426,550: and Chris Chambers 1,941,784. c Of the Performance Share Plan shares outstanding at 31 March 2007, the following shares will be transferred later in the year: Peter Clarke 134,742 shares: Kevin Davis 134,742 shares: Stanley Fink 182,016 shares: and Chris Chambers 85,662 shares.
d Of the matching shares awarded under the Performance Share Plan outstanding at 31 March 2007, the following shares will be transferred later this year: Kevin Davis 778,812 shares: Stanley Fink 945,552 shares: and Chris Chambers 314,088 shares.
e In relation to shares awarded on 21 June 2006, the share price was 393.2 pence representing the five-day average prior to that date.
79 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Audited part of Remuneration Report continued Matching share awards under the Groups Co-Investment Plan a Outstanding Awarded Excercised Outstanding at 31 March during in year at 31 March 2006year 2007 Chris Chambers b 280,338 280,338 Notes: a Details of the performance conditions relating to the Groups Co-Investment Scheme are given on page 73. b Chris Chambers was granted matching awards under this scheme prior to his appointment as a director.
In accordance with the terms of his termination agreement, 280,338 matching shares were transferred to Chris Chambers on 21 June 2006 when the share price was 396.83 pence giving a market value of 1,112,475.
The exercise price was 1 in aggregate.
Directors interests in ordinary shares of Man Group plc a 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Executive directors Peter Clarke 4,348,499 4,015,110 Kevin Davis a 6,429,571 6,228,066 Stanley Fink a 24,070,048 25,828,536 Non-executive directors Jon Aisbitt 1,500,000 1,500,000 Alison Carnwath 426,546 418,530 Dugald Eadie 363,000 384,000 Harvey McGrath 31,980,800 32,980,800 Glen Moreno 100,000 120,000 Former directors Jonathan Nicholls b 30,000 30,000 Notes: a All of the above interests are beneficial, except the interests of Kevin Davis and Stanley Fink, which include their non-beneficial interests in 918,000 and 765,000 ordinary shares respectively held by them as trustees of trusts of which they are also beneficiaries.
b Interest as at 20 July 2006: date of Jonathan Nicholls resignation as a director.
c There has been no change in the directors interests in the ordinary shares of Man Group plc from 31 March 2007 to the date of this report.
The market price of the Companys shares at the end of the financial year was 5.55.
The highest and lowest daily closing share prices during the financial year were 5.96 and 3.57 respectively.
For and on behalf of the Board Dugald Eadie Chairman, Remuneration Committee 31 May 2007 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 80 Financial Statements Financial Statements 82 Auditors report on the Groups financial statements 83 Principal Accounting Policies 91 Group Income Statement 92 Group Balance Sheet 93 Group Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 94 Group Cash Flow Statement 95 Notes to the Group financial statements 134 Principal Group Investments 135 Auditors report on the parent company financial statements 136 Company financial statements 137 Notes to the Company financial statements 140 Shareholder and Company Information 81 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Auditors Report on the Groups Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Man Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the Group financial statements of Man Group plc for on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Principal Accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Policies, the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
Group Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Group Cash It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Flow Statement and the related notes.
These group financial statements judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied We have reported separately on the parent company financial and adequately disclosed.
statements of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information is described as having been audited.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Group financial statements.
by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys for the year then ended: members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other IAS Regulation: and person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report  LLP to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information London given in the Directors Report includes that information presented in the 31 May 2007 Asset Management review, Brokerage review, Financial and Risk Management review and Corporate Responsibility Summary Report which is cross referred from the Principal activities, business review and results section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Directors Report, Corporate Governance and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 82 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies The directors do not expect that the adoption of the following Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2007 interpretations, which become effective in future periods, will have The Groups principal accounting policies that have been applied a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements are set IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives years presented.
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions A Basis of preparation IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Critical accounting estimates and judgements which comprise standards and interpretations issued by either the The preparation of the financial statements requires management International Accounting Standards Board IASB or the International to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or their of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of predecessors, as adopted by the European Union EU and with contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies which are based on managements best judgement at the date reporting under IFRS.
of preparation of the financial statements deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value The areas where a higher degree of judgement or complexity arise, of derivative financial instruments and certain financial assets that or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the are available for sale or held at fair value through profit or loss.
The consolidated financial statements, are discussed below.
carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged is adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks 1 Discontinued operations that are being hedged.
This valuation is in accordance with IAS 39.
On 30 March 2007 the Group Board announced that it intends to Brokerage has been classified as a discontinued operation in these separate its Brokerage business, effected by an initial public offering on financial statements see Policy C. the New York Stock Exchange of a majority interest.
It is intended that the sale will take place in the third calendar quarter of 2007, subject only Amendments to existing standards and IFRIC interpretations, that to market conditions remaining favourable and shareholder approval.
became effective in the year, have been applied by the Group but As a result, Brokerage has been reclassified as a discontinued operation none of them has had a material impact on the financial statements in these financial statements.
2 Goodwill and other intangible assets During the year to 31 March 2007 each Ordinary Share of 18 US cents The valuation and amortisation periods of intangible assets arising on was sub-divided into six Ordinary Shares of 3 US cents each.
acquisition, such as customer relationships, and the impairment testing All comparative figures in the Annual Report relating to the number of goodwill is based on value in use calculations prepared on the basis of shares in issue, such as earnings per share and dividend per share of managements assumptions and estimates of future cash flows and measures, have been restated by dividing the previously disclosed discount rates.
The amortisation period of the sales commissions, representing the IFRS new standards and interpretations Groups contractual right to benefit from future income from providing The following standards and interpretations have been issued by investment management services, is based on managements estimate the IASB but are not effective for the year ended 31 March 2007 of the weighted average period over which the Group expects to earn and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
economic benefit from the investor being invested in each fund product.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the following standards Management estimate that this period is five years in both the current in future periods will have a material impact on the results or financial and the comparative year.
3 Customer balances IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosure and an amendment to Brokerage maintains certain balances on behalf of customers with third IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements on capital disclosures were party institutions in segregated accounts.
The two main jurisdictions in issued by the IASB in August 2005 and are required to be adopted which customer monies are significant to the Group are in the UK and by the Group for reporting in its financial year ending 31 March 2008. in the US.
These amounts and the related liabilities to customers, whose This new standard and the revision to IAS 1 add further quantitative recourse is limited to the segregated accounts, are not included in the and qualitative disclosures in relation to financial instruments and how Group balance sheet.
Under UK trust law these segregated accounts an entity manages its capital resources.
are legally protected and the Group has concluded that there is an analogous position in the US.
Therefore, the Group does not have a IFRS 8 Operating segments was issued in November 2006 and, liability to its customers in the event that a third party depository if adopted by the EU, will be required to be adopted by the Group institution, where the segregated accounts are held, does not return for reporting in its financial year ending 31 March 2010.
The new all the segregated funds.
In addition, the corresponding asset is not standard adopts a management approach under which segmental co-mingled with the Groups funds and the Groups control over such information is to be disclosed on the same basis as that used for assets is severely restricted.
For these reasons customer balances are internal reporting purposes.
not recognised on the balance sheet as they do not give rise to an asset or a liability of the Group.
83 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies continued Customer balances are only relevant to Brokerage discontinued Employee share ownership trusts have been established for the operation and therefore, subject to the intended disposal of Brokerage purposes of satisfying certain share based awards.
These trusts are being completed, this accounting policy will not be relevant for the fully consolidated within the financial statements.
Groups financial statements in future periods.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 4 Treatment of fund entities of which the Group is the investment transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that manager control ceases.
The Group is investment manager to a number of fund entities and in addition provides a number of other administrative services.
Having The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the considered all significant aspects of the Groups relationships with the acquisition of subsidiaries or businesses.
The cost of an acquisition fund entities, the directors are of the opinion that, although the Group is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued may have significant influence over fund entities, the existence of the and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs investment management contract and provision of other administrative directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and services do not give the Group control over the fund entities.
The key liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are considerations taken into account in reaching this judgement include: measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the existence of independent, empowered boards of directors: the the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition influence of investors: the investment management contract termination over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets provisions: and, the arms length nature of the Groups contracts with acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions and balances between Group companies 5 Exchangeable bonds are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the As at the date of the Groups transition to IFRS 1 April 2004, transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
the 400 million exchangeable bonds issued by the Group were Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary accounted for as a liability measured at amortised cost with the to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group for conversion option classified as a derivative with foreign currency and preparing the consolidated financial statements.
own equity characteristics measured at fair value with the resulting gains and losses being reported in the income statement.
This accounting 2 Associates and joint ventures treatment was adopted because the exchangeable bonds included a Associates are all entities in which the Group holds an interest and over cash settlement option and on application of IAS 21 the functional which it has significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all currency of Man Group plc changed from sterling to US dollars.
entities in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which are On 5 November 2004, the cash settlement option was revoked and jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other parties under the Group put in place a US dollar sterling cross currency swap.
changes enabled the Group to split account for the exchangeable bonds restoring the Group to the position it was in when it originally issued the Investments in associates and joint ventures are generally accounted for bonds November 2002, as the conversion option would be settled by by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost, exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial asset for a fixed except for investments in fund entities that are fair valued through the number of shares.
Accordingly, the directors have determined that the income statement as described below.
The Groups investment in conversion option should be classified as an equity instrument from associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated 5 November 2004 and not subsequently remeasured.
impairment loss identified on acquisition see Policy H. 6 Income taxes Under the equity method, the Groups share of its associates and joint The Group is subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions.
Judgement ventures post-acquisition profits or losses after tax that is borne by the is required in determining estimates in relation to the worldwide provision associate or joint venture is recognised in the income statement, and for income taxes.
There are transactions for which the ultimate tax its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that against the carrying amount of the investment.
were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in B Consolidation the associates and joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated 1 Subsidiaries unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over transferred.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are adopted by the Group.
currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Details of Forester Ltd, the Where the Group is an investor and has significant influence over the Groups only material special purpose entity, are given in Note 33 to fund entities through its role as investment manager those fund entities the financial statements.
are associates of the Group.
The investments in these fund entities are either short-term liquidity investments or seeding investments.
These investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period of the change.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 84 Financial Statements liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in other C Discontinued operations operating income or losses in the income statement, except when When the Group is committed to dispose of a business segment that deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
represents a separate major line of business, and it is intended that such a disposal will be completed within one year of the decision to sell, 3 Group companies it classifies such a business segment as a discontinued operation, The results and financial position of all the group entities none of which in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional discontinued operations.
The assets of the discontinued operation currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the disposal group are presented separately from other assets on the Group presentation currency as follows: balance sheet and the liabilities of the discontinued operation disposal group are presented separately from other liabilities on the Group a assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of the disposal group classified closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance sheet is not restated.
b income and expenses for each income statement are translated at The post-tax result of the discontinued operation is shown as a single average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods: amount on the face of the Group income statement, with a restatement of the comparative period.
In determining the post-tax result of the c all resulting exchange differences are included in the cumulative discontinued operation only those central costs that will be eliminated translation adjustment reserve within equity.
on disposal are allocated to the discontinued operation.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign D Presentation of exceptional items entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and For continuing operations, the Group shows any exceptional items in a translated at the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
separate column or row on the face of the Group income statement.
For discontinued operations, the Group shows exceptional items separately On transition to IFRS 1 April 2004, the Group brought forward a nil in the footnote analysing the income statement of the discontinued opening balance on the cumulative translation adjustment reserve operation.
The Group defines exceptional items as those material items, arising from the retranslation of foreign operations.
by virtue of their size or nature, which the Group considers should be presented separately in order to aid comparability from period to period.
G Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent E Segment reporting depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item components operating in other economic environments.
Business can be measured reliably.
All other repair and maintenance expenditures segments are the primary reporting segments as this is the basis on are charged to the income statement during the financial period in when which the Group is managed and reported internally.
Following the they are incurred.
announcement on 30 March 2007 relating to the intention to sell Brokerage, the Group has one continuing business segment, being Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the Asset Management.
The analyses by geographical segment are based cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as on the location of the customer.
In Asset Management, this is the where follows: the fund product entities, from which fee income is earned, are registered.
Buildings life of the lease F Foreign currency translation Equipment 3 10 years 1 Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life which is the Companys functional and presentation currency and the of the related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, currency in which the majority of the Groups revenue streams, assets, whichever is sooner.
liabilities and funding is denominated.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount operates the functional currency.
is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount 2 Transactions and balances see Policy I.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant Group entitys functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the of the transactions, or where it is more practical a group entity may use disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the an average rate for the week or month for all transactions in each foreign income statement.
currency occurring during that week or month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Foreign exchange gains Any borrowing costs associated with purchasing property, plant and and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from equipment are expensed.
the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and 85 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies continued 4 Computer software H Intangible assets Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the 1 Goodwill costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired useful lives three to five years.
subsidiary, associate or business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is included in intangible Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investment programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are to the entity sold.
Direct costs include software development and associated employee costs.
Computer software Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to equity prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 5 All intangible assets subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount 2 Sales commissions is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets In Asset Management, sales commissions are paid to intermediaries carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount agents and to employees.
Sales commissions are recognised as see Policy I. follows: Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the a Upfront commissions paid to distributors intermediaries and to disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the employees income statement.
In many instances, upfront commission is paid to distributors and or employees when a fund product is first launched, and is based on the I Impairment of non-financial assets amount of investors monies introduced.
This upfront commission is Goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to an incremental cost that is directly attributable to securing investors amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are in fund products from which the Group earns income based on an subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment investment management contract with the relevant fund.
Accordingly whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying an intangible asset is recognised in accordance with IFRS, amount may not be recoverable.
representing the Groups contractual right to benefit from future income from providing investment management services.
The carrying An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the period value of this intangible asset is based on the value of the initial upfront in which it occurs at the amount by which the assets carrying amount commission payments made to distributors and employees less an exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is amortisation charge.
This intangible asset is amortised over five years the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
on a straight-line basis, the weighted average period over which the Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows Group expects to earn an economic benefit from the investor being obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those invested in the fund product.
resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are All unamortised sales commission is subject to impairment testing grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable each period to ensure that the future economic benefits arising from cash flows cash-generating units.
each fund product sale made is in excess of the remaining unamortised commission.
Where it is not, the unamortised portion J Investments is written down as a charge to the income statement.
1 Classification The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: b Trail commissions financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: Commission payments made to distributors intermediaries for held to maturity investments: and available-for-sale financial assets.
ongoing services trail commissions are charged to the income The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Management determines the classification of investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates, where permitted, this designation 3 Customer relationships in Brokerage at each reporting date.
Customer relationships are recognised when they are acquired through a business combination.
Their value at the date of acquisition is generally a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss determined using a combination of market comparable method and This category includes financial assets held for trading and those income approach methodologies such as the discounted cash flow designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
method which estimates net cash flows attributable to the assets over A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally their economic lives and discounts to present value using an appropriate for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading and the time value of money.
Customer relationships are amortised using unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 15 years.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 86
