PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Group and parent company financial statements accounting records which disclose with reasonable Company law requires the Directors to prepare such accuracy at any time the financial position of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930. a Directors Report which complies with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the financial statements present fairly for each financial Governance Gibraltar Companies Act 1930, and a Directors year the Groups and the Companys financial position, 125 Remuneration Report which complies with the financial performance and cashflows.
This requires the requirements of the UK Companies Act 1985. faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the Financial statements are published on the Groups definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, website in accordance with legislation in the United income and expenses set out in the International Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the of financial statements, which may vary from legislation Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The maintenance and integrity of In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
consistently select and apply appropriate accounting The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual policies: Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group present information, including accounting policies, in accordance with International Financial Reporting in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Standards IFRS, and have also chosen to prepare comparable and understandable information: and financial statements for the Company in accordance provide additional disclosures when compliance with IFRS.
with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements 126 Play with your queen... PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Multi currency PartyGaming players now have the choice to hold their deposits in dollars, pounds sterling or euros.
With the majority of Group revenues coming from customers located in Europe, most players can now play casino games or place bets in their local currency.
Financial statements 127... or king
