PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Systems and technology Our business Our systems and technology operation represents the central nervous system of Operations our business.
Having scalable and flexible Business review state-of-the-art systems are pre-requisites 78 for success in online gaming.
Importantly, they also need to instil confidence in our customers, business partners and gaming The Groups business comprises industry regulators.
This means ensuring that they are robust, safe and secure: three distinct operational that customers deposits and transactions functions: systems and remain confidential and protected: that technology, marketing and our software is fair through extensive testing customer service.
procedures: and that our processes are certified by independent third-party agencies, thereby maintaining the highest standards of integrity.
New in 2007 Our business is highly scalable.
The Groups growth profile over a relatively short period is clear evidence of the flexibility and Multi-currency launched, in pounds sterling, euros and US dollars scalability of our systems.
There is an ongoing assessment of customer volumes Integration of PartyBets and Gamebookers and capacity to ensure there is always on to a single platform headroom for growth and that sharp No download versions of PartyCasino and movements in customer numbers do PartyBingo launched not result in any capacity issues as the Overhauled our payment solutions and business develops.
customised our offering for Europe Marketing launch of PartyBets Platform stability Reliability is vital for long-term success Good marketing progress in parts of and platform stability is also a top priority Eastern Europe for our technology team.
If our system is Improved organic search rankings unavailable, then this affects not just Multi-lingual customer service team established existing customers but also potential new in Europe players.
We aim to minimise the amount Integrated a CRM tool into all locations of downtime by scheduling necessary allowing improved prioritisation for customers maintenance or upgrades during the least active periods.
That said, we recognise that For further details of developments in 2007, there is always scope for improvement.
Through technical developments introduced over the past 18 months, we are now able to implement an increasing number of software upgrades without incurring any downtime at all.
Unscheduled downtime is something that affects all operators at one time or another.
Again, having made many improvements during 2007, it is hoped that unscheduled downtime for PartyPoker can be reduced even further.
In 2007, the average amount of scheduled downtime for PartyPoker each month was 0.4% 2006: 0.5% whilst the amount of unscheduled downtime was 0.1% 2006: 0.1%.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Software development Payment processing The Group owns and develops most PartyGaming has long recognised that of its gaming software, thereby ensuring having access to a variety of competitive, maximum flexibility on upgrading and efficient payment mechanisms is an Business review improving the customer offer.
Besides being important factor for long-term success.
79 able to exercise total control, the ability to When our real money customers access implement changes rapidly is also a major the Groups online cashier, they are advantage given the dynamics of the presented with a choice of different online gaming market.
The Group employs payment mechanisms.
Customers can also over 300 software engineers and choose to deposit funds and have them associated staff.
This international team is held in either US dollars, pounds sterling or responsible for ensuring that the Groups euros.
The Group is able to change the systems architecture is working effectively order in which payment mechanisms as well as for delivering technical upgrades appear, depending upon the players and improvements to existing games and geographic location and the cost of the related software.
Even with this important mechanism to the Group namely resource, we recognise that the Groups transaction fees and chargebacks.
This technology team, whilst highly skilled, means that the Group can optimise the does not have a monopoly over the best balance between different payment ideas and that there are many other mechanisms in order to control payment sources of excellence in the marketplace.
costs as well as avoid over-reliance on any The Group is now seeking a limited single provider.
number of additional software licensing Credit cards and debit cards are by far the agreements with third-parties that either most popular method of payment chosen have a proven product that can be by the Groups customers and represented integrated into the Party-branded systems approximately 65% of total deposits in 2007 platform, or perhaps have one that 2006: 65%, with online wallets and other represents an attractive secondary brand methods such as wire transfer and cheques to complement the existing product making up the balance.
Striking the right balance between deposits is closely correlated with both the proprietary and third-party controlled number of active players and the level software is a key consideration in managing of player activity.
In the 12 months to the Groups risk profile, whilst continuing to 31 December 2007, total deposits were provide an excellent customer experience.
While the Group currently offers a range of different deposit mechanisms, we continue to seek new ways that customers can pay-in funds.
The common feature across all of the mechanisms we offer is that customers know that our system is secure, confidential and easy to use.
However, should any customer have any problems Technology with their payment transaction, we offer a dedicated customer service function that The Group has over 300 full time can provide assistance.
dedicated software engineers tasked with the continued development of the Groups platform, related systems and games.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Direct marketing has historically been Our business dominated by the use of television advertising and promotion, including Operations programme sponsorship.
Almost irrespective Business review of geographic market, television has 80 continued to be one of the most effective methods of increasing new player sign-ups.
A number of territories do not allow Players can also withdraw funds using a gambling advertising on television and so variety of different methods including the Group has had to seek alternative repayment to the customers debit card routes to promote its products and or online wallet.
Bank transfer and paper attract new players.
These include, where cheques can also be used.
permitted, radio and billboard advertising, Marketing sponsorship, direct mail sending software Excellent technology is clearly important, on CDs through the post, print media as but so is getting players to sign-up, deposit well as online campaigns such as banner and play.
The sheer volume of new player advertising and search engine promotions.
sign-ups that the Group has continued to As these media tend to be less effective deliver on a daily basis has been a major than television, extensive use of these other factor behind its success and has been media can increase customer acquisition instrumental in differentiating it from many costs on a per player basis.
This success has been built Affiliates generated approximately 58% of upon the following key marketing channels: poker revenue in 2007 2006: 56%.
These direct, through both online and offline third-parties drive players to the Groups marketing campaigns: affiliates, that drive websites in return for a commission.
With traffic to the Groups sites in return for over 100,000 registered affiliates, of which a fee: and through customer bonuses over 4,000 were active i. e. generated real that reward frequent play and help to money sign-ups during December 2007, encourage players to remain loyal to the the Group probably has one of the largest Groups websites.
In 2007 the Group also affiliate networks of any eCommerce added a fourth channel: commercial company.
The value from affiliates also alliances.
These arrangements allow the comes from them helping to identify new Group to access third-party brands and markets for the Group by attracting new media in order to drive player traffic to the player sign-ups to one of our sites, possibly Groups platform.
As well as recruiting new from territories which previously had not players, the Groups marketing function been seen as important.
The contractual employs a variety of player retention relationship is embodied within the terms initiatives focused on encouraging existing and conditions at PartyPartners.
com, the players to stay with us and not divert Groups dedicated affiliate website.
their leisure spend to other sites or other Despite having to compete for affiliates activities.
Having spent good money with other operators, PartyGaming recruiting valuable players, we are also continues to represent an attractive focused on keeping them.
proposition for affiliates because of its historic success, established brands and quality offering.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Bonuses are one of the online gaming Customer service involves dealing with industrys main marketing tools.
payment processing queries, fraud PartyGaming has developed over detection and all technical and software 50 different bonus types, although most fall related enquiries as well as customer Business review into one of the following four categories: account, promotion and bonus enquiries.
81 initial sign-up bonus, reload bonus such The customer service activities aim to as deposit $100 and you will receive a meet predetermined service levels based bonus of $25, tell-a-friend bonus refer on a series of performance targets.
someone who makes a deposit and you Each of the core targets, together with will earn a bonus, as well as various one-off the corresponding performance in 2007 promotions.
Under International Financial is shown below.
Reporting Standards, most bonus types are netted from revenue rather than included 80% of all phone calls are answered within operating costs.
within 20 seconds 2007: 86% Alliances with blue chip organisations are 60% of all customer service emails are a further source of player traffic that the answered within 120 minutes 2007: 60% Group started to put in place during 2007.
Drawing upon the respective strengths of PartyGaming and each of these alliances in terms of brand, product and media, we hope to increase the number of players on our platform that will drive growth in revenue and Clean EBITDA.
Customer service We work hard to ensure that customers do not encounter any problems, when playing on our sites.
However, sometimes things do go wrong.
Our customer service operation is a fallback to deal with these issues and is there to help with any customer enquiries and to resolve any technical or payment processing issues.
With over 200 representatives providing a 24 7 service, in different languages, customer service is a large and important part of the Groups business operations.
Customer service During 2007 the Group grew its customer service operation in Europe.
Responding to customer issues in different languages, the Group handled over 977,000 customer enquiries in 2007.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Business review 82 Midnight at the casino PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Product licensing Business review 83 Alliance Sporting Index Method Their games, our brands, our media Brands Sporting Index supplies a full UK racing service for PartyBets and Gamebookers We are delighted to enable PartyBets to offer its customers a first-class comprehensive horse racing service.
Richard Glynn, CEO of Sporting Index or the 2.30 at Ascot
