Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper the Annual Report and the Group and Company accounting records which disclose, with reasonable financial statements in accordance with applicable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the parent laws and regulations.
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They UK Companies law requires the Directors to prepare Group are also responsible for the system of internal control, and Company financial statements for each financial year.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are law and have elected to prepare the parent Company also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors financial statements in accordance with UK accounting remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement standards and applicable law UK GAAP.
The Group that comply with that law and those regulations.
financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position The Directors confirm that they have complied with the and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 above requirements in preparing the Annual Report, and provides in relation to such financial statements that having a reasonable expectation that the Company has references in the relevant part of that Act to financial adequate resources to continue in operational existence for statements giving a true and fair view are references the foreseeable future, continue to adopt a going concern to their achieving a fair presentation.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys financial statements are required by law Disclosure of information to auditors to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined financial statements, the Directors are required to: by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Companys auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken consistently: all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable aware of any relevant audit information and to establish and prudent: that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
For the Groups financial statements, state whether they A copy of the financial statements of the Company is have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted posted on the Cable and Wireless plc website www.
by the EU: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and For the Companys financial statements, state whether integrity of the corporate and financial information included applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, on the website.
Information published on the Companys subject to any material departures disclosed and explained website is accessible in many countries with different in the financial statements: and legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis preparation and dissemination of financial statements unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or the may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company will continue in business.
48 Financial statements Financial statements for the Group and Company including a report from the independent auditor.
Cable & Wireless Group 50 Independent auditors report 51 Consolidated financial statements 55 Notes to the financial statements Cable and Wireless plc 108 Independent auditors report 109 Company financial statements 111 Notes to the financial statements 49 Financial statements Company Group
