Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 1 General information Cable and Wireless plc the Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It operates through two standalone businesses International and Europe, Asia & US.
International operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
It has principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
Europe, Asia & US provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia.
This business includes C&W Access formerly Bulldog which provides wholesale broadband and telephony services to commercial and residential end users through wholesale agreements.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
They comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS.
Adopted IFRS are similar to IFRSs issued by the IASB, except for certain provisions concerning hedge accounting that have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The financial statements are presented in sterling and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities, except where indicated below.
These changes in accounting policy have been applied retrospectively and comparative amounts have been restated.
Monaco put option As part of the Groups acquisition of Monaco Telecom on 18 June 2004, the Principality of Monaco acquired an option to put its 45% holding in the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group at a future date.
In the light of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and developing accounting practice, the Group has decided to amend its accounting policy for this transaction.
Previously, the 45% holding of the Principality of Monaco was accounted for as a minority interest.
It is now accounted for as a liability representing the potential obligation of the Group for its purchase, even though this outcome is considered remote.
As a result, the investment is now accounted for as if the Group held 100% of the shares.
The effect on the reserves and minority interests of the Group at 1 April 2005 was 13 million and 59 million respectively.
The effect of the change to the 31 March 2006 financial statements is tabulated below.
Basic and diluted earnings per share for 31 March 2006 have been reduced by 0.2p.
Change in 2005 06 results m Balance sheet 1 Increase in intangible assets 40 Increase in non-current financial liabilities 106 Decrease in minority interest 61 Decrease in reserves 5 Income statement Increase in finance expense 12 Decrease in profit for the year 12 Decrease in profit attributable to minority interests 9 Decrease in profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 3 1 Represents an adjustment of 53 million increase in 2004 05 offset by 13 million decrease in 2005 06.
55 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 2.1 Basis of preparation continued Reclassification of income statement items The Group has revised the format of its income statement in the current period to reflect better the classification of certain items between operating and non-operating profit.
These items have not changed the profit for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The impact on the previously reported income statement is as follows: 11 million, representing the exceptional gain on the sale of Coventry College the Groups training centre has been reclassified from gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets to other operating income: and 6 million, representing exceptional insurance proceeds relating to restoration work after Hurricane Ivan has been reclassified from other non-operating income to other operating income: and 7 million of dividend income has been reclassified from other non-operating income to finance income.
Reclassification of balance sheet items During the current period, we have reclassified a balance of 11 million from trade and other receivables to other non-current assets.
This balance represents cash held in jurisdictions where there are restrictions on the repatriation of cash and has been reclassified to better reflect the nature of the balance.
The corresponding balance of 15 million in the prior period balance sheet has been adjusted in order to be consistent.
Earnings per share The Group has amended the reported diluted earnings per share in the comparative period to reflect the fact that there was no dilution in this period.
Diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations was also amended to reflect this fact.
The effect of these changes is to align diluted earnings per share with basic earnings per share.
2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards The Group has considered the following amendments to IFRSs in these financial statements.
New Interpretations effective at 1 April 2006 adopted by the Group that did not have a material impact Title Description IFRIC 4 Provides guidance on how to determine whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease: when assessment Determining whether an or reassessments or arrangements should be made: and how payments for leases should be separated from Arrangement contains a Lease payments for other elements of an arrangement.
IFRIC 5 Provides guidance on contributions to funds for decommissioning, restoration and environmental Rights to Interests arising from rehabilitation funds.
Specifically, it addresses how a contributor should account for its interest in a fund Decommissioning, Restoration and and how obligations to make additional contributions should be accounted for.
Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Provides guidance on the recognition, in the financial statements of producers, of liabilities for waste Liabilities arising from Participation in a management under the EU Directive of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WE&EE in respect Specific Market Waste Electrical and of sales of historical household equipment.
Electronic Equipment IFRIC 7 Provides guidance on how to apply the requirements of IAS 29 in a reporting period in which an entity Applying the Restatement Approach identifies the existence of hyperinflation in an economy of its functional currency, when that economy was not under IAS 29 Financial Reporting hyperinflationary in the prior period, and the entity restates its financial statements in accordance with IAS 29. in Hyperinflationary Economies New Interpretations effective for the Group from 1 April 2007 adopted early that did not have a material impact IFRIC 8 Provides guidance on situations where the entity cannot specifically identify some or all of the goods or Scope of IFRS 2 services received as part of a share-based payment transaction.
IFRIC 9 Provides guidance on the reassessment of embedded derivatives subsequent to the entity becoming party Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives to the contract.
IFRIC 10 Provides guidance on the reversal of impairment losses recognised in a previous interim period in respect Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
IFRIC 11 Provides guidance on share-based payment arrangements involving an entitys own equity instruments IFRS 2 Group and Treasury or equity instruments of the parent.
Share Transactions New Standard effective for the Group from 1 April 2007 not adopted early that will not have a material impact IFRS 7 The IFRS requires the disclosure of the significance of financial instruments for an entitys financial position Financial Instruments: Disclosure and performance.
It also requires qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
56 2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its associates and joint ventures.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
This generally accompanies a shareholding of between 20% and 50%.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture exceeds its interest or participation including any other unsecured long term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest or participation.
2.4 Segmental reporting The Group discloses its primary segment reporting by business segment.
The Directors consider that this is the most appropriate distinction between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities.
A business segment is defined as a component of the Group engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment.
Assets and capital expenditure that relate to a range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated.
The Group discloses its secondary segment reporting by geographical segment.
A geographical segment is defined as a component of the Group engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where the telecommunication services are delivered.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based on their location.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
57 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 2.5 Foreign currency translation continued c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into sterling as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Since 1 April 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRS, exchange differences have been recognised in a Foreign Currency Translation Reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
There are no material Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs of borrowings made specifically to finance separately identifiable major capital projects incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service are also capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values.
These are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction.
They are stated at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Provision is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The basis of determining fair values are set out in note 2.12.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and reevaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through income statement.
58 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than a year after the balance sheet date: these are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within twelve months of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through income statement are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets not carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active or for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuers specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the instrument increases in a later period.
2.8 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in those investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmes beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
59 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 2.9 Intangible assets continued Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts have been obtained as part of the Groups business combinations.
They are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives.
The useful lives of licences including concessions to provide telecommunication services are determined based on the terms of the underlying agreements including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Software 35 years Customer contracts 415 years Other 35 years 2.10 Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgmental and susceptible to change.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted using asset specific discount rates that reflect the risks associated with the groups of assets.
These risks vary with the nature and the location of the cash generating units.
2.11 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, network assets or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective hedging instruments Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated as or are not effective hedging instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
60 2.12 Fair value estimation for financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.13 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Group are initially recognised at fair value.
The bond is separated into liability and equity components.
The liability component is recognised at amortised cost.
The equity component represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability.
The liability portion is subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bond.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
2.14 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling expenses.
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
The cost of inventory held for resale comprises acquisition costs and associated expenses determined on a weighted average basis.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, marketable securities and overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
In some jurisdictions, there are restrictions on the repatriation of cash.
Funds in excess of operating requirements in these jurisdictions are recognised as non-current assets.
Further, where the cash held is surplus to operating and investing requirements, a provision is applied to these balances to adjust the carrying amount to its estimated recoverable amount.
2.16 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or stand alone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options for the acquisition of a business are included in the cost of acquisition.
2.17 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long term payables.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
Each component part is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the balance sheet.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
61 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 2.18 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets whose value is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage are classified as held for sale.
These assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges but separately disclosed.
2.19 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised if they are recoverable.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations are determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The bonds used will have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in the period in which they occur directly in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
Current service costs are charged to the income statement.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Termination benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
62 Bonus plans The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Cash Long Term Incentive Plan The Group operates a Cash Long Term Incentive Plan.
The plan rewards Executive Directors responsible for, and certain senior employees in, International and Europe, Asia & US.
The plan is accounted for as an other long term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date.
2.20 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.21 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement as operating costs.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments representing the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and expected settlement costs.
2.22 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis.
It includes sales to associated companies and joint ventures but does not include sales by associated companies and joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
Revenue from service contracts that cover periods of greater than twelve months is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the services delivered at the reporting date.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the provision of other mobile telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment including handsets.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid top-up cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
63 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 2.22 Revenue recognition continued The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content on its network originated by third-party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: establishment of the price: provision of customer remedies: performance of part of the service: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue-generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
2.23 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.24 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.25 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2.26 Puttable instruments on minority interests Puttable instruments on minority interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the acquirer as a financial liability.
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to minority interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting The cost of acquisition of entities in a business combination is allocated to tangible and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal, or estimated by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation include estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in asset lives or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
64 3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its market capitalisation relative to net book value.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill, which is not amortised, at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, the timing and amount of expected cash flows and applicable discount rates.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups cash generating units to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of net realisable value and the value in use.
Net realisable value represents market value in an active market less cost to sell.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset or the cash generating unit to which it refers.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the respective businesses.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 16.
3.4 Revenue recognition Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax or other sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis to match revenue with the provision of service.
Revenue is recognised monthly as services are provided.
Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision of the service.
Revenue in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
Judgement is required in assessing the application of these principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenues, including the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.5 Interconnection with other operators and similar supply arrangements As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of income receivable from or payments to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
In a similar way, the Group enters into supply arrangements.
In certain instances it uses estimates of price or usage to determine the expense charged in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed with suppliers.
Credits and charges on adjustments to both interconnect and other supply arrangements are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.6 Impairment of receivables The allowance for impairment of trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of its customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.7 Taxation The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
65 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 3.8 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.9 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.21.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.10 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present values of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 33 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially impact the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 33.
3.11 Fair value estimation The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.12.
Where market values are not available fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made.
Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
3.12 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the future valuation of International and Europe, Asia & US to determine the obligation for the LTIP.
The estimations require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective.
66 4 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider.
During the year Cable & Wireless operated three primary business segments: International: Europe, Asia & US corporate business formerly the UK business : and C&W Access formerly Bulldog.
The International business operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
The Europe, Asia & US business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia.
Continuing operations The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are presented below: 2 Europe, C&W Other and 1 International Asia & US Access eliminations Total 2006 07 m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,228 2,119 43 42 3,348 Pre-exceptional operating costs 951 2,073 142 21 3,145 Exceptional operating costs 60 29 89 Group operating profit loss 277 14 128 21 114 Share of post-tax loss profit of associates and joint ventures 8 3 11 Total operating profit loss 269 17 128 21 103 Other income 174 Net finance expense 28 Profit before income tax 249 Tax 43 Profit for the year from continuing operations 206 2005 06 Continuing operations Revenue 1,212 2,028 33 43 3,230 Pre-exceptional operating costs 937 2,002 153 1 3,093 Exceptional operating costs 14 234 7 241 Group operating profit loss 261 208 120 37 104 Share of post-tax profit loss of associates and joint ventures 60 6 54 Total operating profit loss 321 214 120 37 50 Other income 144 Net finance income 6 Profit before income tax 100 Tax 27 Profit for the year from continuing operations 73 1 Excludes C&W Access.
2 Other includes Central revenues and expenses.
67 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 4 Segment information continued Inter segment sales are not significant and are charged at arms length prices.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 and for the year ended on these dates are: 2 Europe, C&W Other and 1 International Asia & US Access eliminations Total 2006 07 m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 1,578 1,737 103 956 4,374 Associates and joint ventures 129 12 117 Total assets 1,707 1,725 103 956 4,491 Total liabilities 717 1,053 21 810 2,601 Capital expenditure 168 204 31 403 Acquisitions 15 15 Depreciation and amortisation 145 104 26 2 273 Assets written off 13 13 Movement on provisions 3 74 2 1 78 2005 06 Continuing operations Segment assets 1,849 1,629 138 959 4,575 Associates and joint ventures 186 10 176 Total assets 2,035 1,619 138 959 4,751 Total liabilities 472 965 48 1,400 2,885 Capital expenditure 142 207 70 3 416 Acquisitions 2 608 8 618 Depreciation and amortisation 142 123 15 6 274 Impairment charge 237 237 Movement on provisions 20 8 2 26 1 Excludes C&W Access.
2 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Goodwill of 421 million 2005 06 384 million relating to Energis is included in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Goodwill of 102 million 2005 06 69 million relating to Monaco Telecom is included in the International segment.
Goodwill of nil 2005 06 20 million relating to Bulldog is included in the C&W Access segment.
In 2005 06, the 237 million impairment charge against assets in the Europe, Asia & US was primarily due to the change in the Europe, Asia & US strategy to focus on larger, more profitable customers, supporting them with the migration from legacy to IP solutions, and duplication arising from the combination with Energis.
The impairment was recorded as an exceptional item within operating expenses in the income statement.
The basis of calculation of the impairment is set out in note 16.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating items including tax balances.
68 Discontinued operations Details of those businesses categorised as discontinued are set out in note 14.
The segment results of the discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are presented below: Europe, International Asia & US Other Total 2006 07 m m m m Discontinued operations Reversal of unutilised provisions 28 28 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 28 28 2005 06 Discontinued operations Revenue 5 5 Operating costs 3 3 Group operating profit 2 2 Reversal of unutilised provisions 68 68 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 17 3 20 Profit before income tax 19 36890 Tax Profit for the year from discontinued operations 90 Other includes amounts recognised in respect of previously discontinued operations not included in the current segments.
These are primarily transactions arising from the Groups exit from its former US operations in prior years.
The movement in unutilised provisions was a release of 28 million 2005 06 68 million in the Other segment relating to the US exit.
Discontinued operations represent those businesses discontinued and disposed of or held for sale at the year end.
There were no discontinued operations held for sale at 31 March 2007.
In 2005 06, the Group had discontinued operations relating to Sakhalin in the International segment and Cable & Wireless Spain in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Secondary reporting format geographical segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: Europe, Asia & US including the United Kingdom, Europe, US and Asia, Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World.
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are presented below: 1 Europe, Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations Total 2006 07 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 554 289 143 136 106 2,139 19 3,348 Operating costs 428 211 102 116 94 2,192 2 3,145 Exceptional operating costs income 1 1 89 89 Group operating profit loss 126 77 41 20 13 142 21 114 Share of post-tax loss profit of associates and joint ventures 41 2 31 3 11 Total operating profit loss 85 77 41 22 44 145 21 103 Other income 174 Net finance costs 28 Profit before income tax 249 Tax 43 Profit for the year from continuing operations 206 1 Other includes Central revenue and expense.
69 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 4 Segment information continued 1 Europe, Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations Total 2005 06 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 564 284 136 124 104 2,040 22 3,230 Operating costs 440 214 99 105 79 2,134 22 3,093 Exceptional operating costs 10 3 1 234 7 241 Group operating profit loss 114 70 37 16 24 328 37 104 Share of post-tax profit loss of associates and joint ventures 11 544 6 54 Total operating profit loss 125 70 37 21 68 334 37 50 Other income 144 Net finance income 6 Profit before income tax 100 Tax 27 Profit for the year from continuing operations 73 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the year ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are: 1 Europe, Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations Total 2006 07 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 697 317 104 283 177 1,840 956 4,374 Joint ventures 73 5 51 12 117 Total assets 770 317 104 288 228 1,828 956 4,491 Total liabilities 267 143 36 195 76 1,074 810 2,601 Capital expenditure 77 31 19 10 31 235 403 Acquisitions 15 15 Depreciation and amortisation 61 38 15 14 17 128 273 Assets written off 13 13 Movement on provisions 2 11 12 76 1 78 2005 06 Continuing operations Segment assets 808 376 128 277 260 1,767 959 4,575 Associates and joint ventures 127 7 52 10 176 Total assets 935 376 128 284 312 1,757 959 4,751 Total liabilities 169 63 26 186 28 1,013 1,400 2,885 Capital expenditure 78 25 11 10 18 277 3 416 Acquisitions 2 608 8 618 Depreciation and amortisation 63 35 16 13 15 138 6 274 Impairment charge 237 237 Movement on provisions 18 2 8 2 26 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
Revenue is based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered.
It does not follow necessarily that the international telecommunication traffic transiting the Groups networks originates in that location.
The Group does not have access to information on the original source or ultimate destination of international telecommunication traffic.
Segment assets include goodwill related to the acquisition of Energis arising in the year ended 31 March 2006.
70 Goodwill of 421 million 2005 06 384 million relating to Energis is included in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Goodwill of 102 million 2005 06 69 million relating to Monaco is included in the Monaco segment.
In 2005 06, 20 million of goodwill relating to Bulldog was included in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Discontinued operations 2006 07 2005 06 ROW Total ROW Total m m m m Discontinued operations Revenue 55 Total segment assets 11 5 Revenue 2006 07 2005 06 Note m m Continuing operations Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,266 3,145 Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 82 85 3,348 3,230 Revenue from discontinued operations 4 5 Total revenue 3,348 3,235 6 Operating costs The split of the operating costs incurred by the Group, in accordance with the nature of cost, is presented below: 2006 07 2005 06 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Outpayments 1,364 1,364 1,365 1,365 Employee and other staff expenses 536 41 577 527 34 561 Operating lease rentals networks 51 51 47 47 property 46 46 38 38 plant and equipment 1 1 3 3 Other administrative costs 195 195 261 12 273 Foreign exchange gains 1 1 8 8 Network costs 242 242 226 1 227 Property taxes and utility costs 82 37 119 83 7 76 Cost of equipment sold 366 366 274 274 Other operating expenses income 1 1 3 19 16 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,883 78 2,961 2,819 21 2,840 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 39 11 50 46 60 106 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 234 2 236 228 177 405 Operating costs 3,156 91 3,247 3,093 258 3,351 Certain costs included in network costs in 2005 06 have been represented within outpayments to reflect better their nature.
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate the net impact of this is included in operating costs within the relevant line item.
71 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 6 Operating costs continued 2006 07 2005 06 Note m m Exceptional items Staff costs i 41 34 Hurricane related charges ii 6 Other costs iii 12 Property costs iv 37 7 78 21 Asset impairment v 237 Assets written off vi 13 Total exceptional operating costs 91 258 i Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Groups operations in continuing businesses.
The expenses related to International 13 million net of a 2 million provision release note 32, 2005 06 9 million, Europe, Asia & US 28 million, 2005 06 14 million and Central nil, 2005 06 11 million.
The Europe, Asia & US charge is net of a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of 6 million.
ii Hurricane Ivan adversely affected the Groups operations in the Caribbean in 2005 06.
As a result, exceptional restoration costs of 6 million were incurred in rectifying damage caused to the network.
iii In 2005 06 other costs included 4 million of restructuring costs and 2 million of other costs in International, Energis integration costs of 8 million, 5 million provided to a joint venture to assist with Tsunami related restoration costs and 2 million corporate restructuring costs.
These were offset by provision releases of 33 million.
iv Property costs includes provisions relating to vacant property in Europe, Asia & US and is net of 16 million of provision releases note 32.
In 2005 06 the property costs included provision releases relating to prior period restructuring in Europe, Asia & US of 6 million and 1 million in Central.
v In 2005 06, an impairment charge of 237 million was recognised relating to property, plant and equipment 177 million and intangible assets 60 million arising in Europe, Asia & US.
Refer to note 16 for further information on the impairments.
vi Redundant IT assets totalling 13 million 11 million software, 2 million fixed assets were written off following the change in C&W Access strategy from a consumer to wholesale business.
Auditors remuneration The remuneration of the auditor and its associates provided to the Group during the year was 4.7 million including 0.5 million relating to the prior year 2005 06 5.9 million including 1.1 million relating to 2004 05.
In 2005 06, the audit remuneration in respect of prior years resulted from additional audit work in the Cayman Islands following Hurricane Ivan and additional work in respect of our previous NYSE listing.
2006 07 2005 06 m m Audit services Statutory audit services in respect of Group accounts 1.9 2.0 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of Group accounts 0.2 1.1 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.1 3.1 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 0.9 0.8 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of other statutory accounts 0.3 Audit-related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.8 3.7 4.7 Tax services compliance 0.6 0.5 Tax services advisory services 0.1 0.2 Other services 0.3 0.5 4.7 5.9 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
72 7 Other operating income Other operating income primarily relates to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Exceptional other operating income relates to cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of 8 million and the reversal of 5 million unused provisions relating to natural disaster costs recognised in a prior year.
In 2005 06 exceptional other operating income included cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of 6 million and a gain of 11 million on the disposal of the former training centre of the Europe, Asia & US business.
8 Other operating expenses The other operating expense of 2 million relates to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Exceptional other operating expenses reflect the net loss on disposal of the retail customer base of C&W Access to Pipex.
Proceeds of 9 million were offset by a write-off of the 20 million related goodwill.
9 Employee and other staff expense Costs of employees of the Group and contract staff 2006 07 2005 06 m m Wages and salaries 455 459 Social securities costs 39 41 Share-based payments 25 14 Cash long term incentive plan 27 Pension credit expense defined benefit plans 11 6 defined contribution plans 13 9 Temporary labour and recruitment 31 41 579 570 Less: Staff costs capitalised 43 43 Staff costs 536 527 Wages and salaries and staff cost capitalised have been amended in 2005 06 to reflect the full amount of staff cost capitalised.
Average number of employees The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2006 07 2005 06 International International headquarters 145 21 Caribbean 3,697 4,083 Panama 1,846 1,825 Macau 944 960 Monaco 487 477 Rest of the World 773 700 Total International 7,892 8,066 Europe, Asia & US excluding C&W Access 5,430 5,604 C&W Access 446 511 1 Other 83 144 Total Group continuing operations 13,851 14,325 1 21 persons classified as Other in 2005 06 have been re-presented as International headquarters for consistency with the current year allocation.
73 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 9 Employee and other staff expense continued Key managements remuneration Included in staff costs are key management expenses, including 8 million 2005 06 6 million aggregate Directors emoluments, as follows: 2006 07 2005 06 m m Salaries and short-term employment benefits 12 9 Termination and relocation benefits 2 3 Share-based payments 2 4 Cash 1ong term incentive plan 16 32 16 Directors remuneration is disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page pages 38 to 47.
10 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 2006 07 2005 06 restated PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 153 153 27072 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets arose on the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or investments.
There were no gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets before exceptional items in the year 2005 06 2 million.
The tax charge attributable is nil 2005 06 nil and the minority interest share is nil 2005 06 nil.
In 2006 07, exceptional gains on disposals of non-current assets of 153 million reflects the gain on the sale of the Group's interest of Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC Batelco.
The cash proceeds received were 256 million net.
The tax charge attributable and minority interest share were both nil.
In 2005 06, 70 million reflected the gain on the sale of the Groups stake in MobileOne.
The tax charge attributable was nil and the minority interest share was 35 million.
The cash proceeds on disposal of MobileOne were 87 million, of which 43 million was attributed to the minority interest.
This amount was loaned to the minority interest during the year.
11 Gain on termination of operations 2006 07 2005 06 restated PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gain on termination of operations 31821 7272 The pre-exceptional gain of 3 million represents the results of the activities of the the Groups former insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited Pender, which ceased taking on new business in April 2003.
The exceptional gain of 18 million in 2006 07 2005 06 72 million arose from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect of Pender.
The gain in 2006 07 resulted from a release of 15 million from payables and the receipt of 3 million cash.
74 12 Finance income and expense 2006 07 2005 06 restated m m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 51 80 Investment income 1 7 Total finance income 52 87 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 2 9 Interest on other loans 61 58 Finance charges on leases 3 2 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 6 3 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 10 12 82 84 Less: Interest capitalised 2 3 Total finance expense 80 81 Tax relief of 1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2007 2005 06 nil.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 7% of interest charged in certain business units 2005 06 9%.
13 Income tax expense 2006 07 2005 06 m m Current tax charge UK tax at 30% 39 35 Double tax relief 39 35 Overseas tax 52 48 Adjustments relating to prior years 6 34 Total current tax charge 46 14 Deferred tax charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9 8 Effect of change in tax rates 1 1 10 7 Adjustments relating to prior years 13 6 Total deferred tax credit charge 3 13 Total tax charge 43 27 Continuing operations 43 27 Discontinued operations 43 27 The 52 million 2005 06 48 million overseas tax expense is net of a 1 million 2005 06 2 million credit in respect of the exceptional operating costs.
75 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 13 Income tax expense continued The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2006 07 2005 06 restated % % UK statutory tax rate 30.0 30.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 3.3 21.1 Effect of accounting for associates 1.5 1.5 Effect of branches and intra-group dividends less double tax relief 14.8 6.3 Effect of income not taxable 20.3 Effect of other temporary differences 11.6 0.5 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 12.3 15.3 Adjustments relating to prior years 6.5 15.3 Effective tax rate 15.5 14.2 14 Discontinued operations There were no businesses classified to discontinued operations during the current year.
In 2005 06, the businesses classified to discontinued operations were as follows: Gain on disposal Businesses Disposal date m Cable & Wireless SLU C&W Spain 8 April 2005 3 The Sakhalin Operations 13 July 2005 17 20 The profit for the 2006 07 year from discontinued operations comprises the reversal of 28 million of unutilised provisions primarily relating to the US operations discontinued in a prior financial year.
The profit for the 2005 06 year from discontinued operations includes the results of Cable & Wireless Spain and the Sakhalin Operations up to the dates of disposal 2 million as well as the gain on their disposal 20 million and the reversal of unutilised provisions 68 million relating primarily to US operations discontinued in a prior financial year.
2006 07 2005 06 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Revenue 5 5 Operating expenses 3 3 Operating profit 2 2 Gain on disposals of discontinued operations 2020 Reversal of unutilised provisions 2828 6868 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 2828 28890 In 2005 06, Cable & Wireless Spain and Sakhalin Operations contributed 27 million to net cash from investing activities.
76 The aggregate assets and liabilities at the disposal dates were as follows: 2005 06 Spain and Sakhalin carrying amount m Property, plant and equipment 5 Current assets 11 Trade and other payables 3 Net assets 13 Minority interests 3 Net assets disposed 10 Total disposal consideration received 30 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 3 Net cash inflow on disposal of discontinued operations 27 15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2006 07 2005 06 restated m m Profit and adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 174 76 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding millions 2,324 2,286 Dilutive effect of share options 36 Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 2,360 2,286 Basic earnings per share pence per share 7.5 p 3.3p Diluted earnings per share pence per share 7.4 p 3.3p Continuing operations Profit loss and adjusted profit loss from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 146 13 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations pence per share 6.3 p 0.6 p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations pence per share 6.2 p 0.6 p Discontinued operations Profit and adjusted profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 28 89 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations pence per share 1.2 p 3.9p Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations pence per share 1.2 p 3.9p The convertible bond and certain share options 2005 06 the convertible bond and all share options were excluded from the number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share in the period as they were anti-dilutive.
77 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 16 Impairment review The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill As required by IFRS 3, a review of the carrying value of goodwill was performed as at 31 March 2007 and at 31 March 2006.
In performing the reviews, the recoverable amount of goodwill was determined by reference to the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
Europe, Asia & US Europe, Asia & US comprised one cash generating unit in 2006 07 following the integration of Energis in the business and goodwill of 421 million is allocated to this business at 31 March 2007.
A discounted cash flow analysis using the business' approved five year business plan reflecting a terminal value growth rate of 1.2% and a discount rate of 10% indicated that the carrying value of the goodwill was supported and no impairment charge was required.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill of 102 million is allocated to Monaco Telecom.
Three relevant cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom's network assets, namely, domestic including cable television business, international business and other services.
Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units as permitted by IAS 36.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit by discounting future cash flows based on management's five year projections extrapolated at long term growth rates of between 2% and 2.5% at discount rates of between 9% and 13% dependent on the risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive concession in Monaco and management's forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
No impairment was considered necessary.
Other non-current assets and other intangibles Year ended 31 March 2007 There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets had been impaired, except as noted below.
The Group reviewed the carrying value of its investment in its joint venture Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited at the year end in the light of the poor trading performance in the year and following the introduction of competition in 2006 07.
The value in use was determined for each of the three cash generating units of the business fixed line, GSM mobile and CDMA mobile by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the Groups view at a discount rate of 14.2%.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in over five years relates to: Revenue a decline of 18% has been assumed to reflect the impact of competition: Maintenance capital expenditure this has been assumed at 7% of revenue Operating costs these have been estimated to remain at broadly the same level throughout the projection before inflation.
As a result, the Groups share of the impairment charge that has been reflected in the Group income statement is 29 million.
Year ended 31 March 2006 Europe, Asia & US comprises two cash generating units CGUs Energis acquired during the year ended 31 March 2006 and the legacy Cable & Wireless Europe, Asia & US business.
As the performance and cash flows are separately identifiable in this year, these are treated as separate CGUs for the purpose of impairment review as permitted by IAS 36.
The change in focus and strategy of Europe, Asia & US and the performance of the legacy C&W Europe, Asia & US corporate business triggered a review of the carrying value of that legacy business' assets.
A number of these assets are of continuing strategic value to the combined business and have a market value in excess of their carrying value.
These include the core network, the investment in the next generation network NGN and certain properties.
78 The impaired assets relate primarily to technologies that are becoming obsolete as customers move towards IP network solutions, support customers falling outside Europe, Asia & US corporate business' future strategy or are duplicated as the business combines with Energis.
A discounted cash flow analysis using the business' approved business plan reflecting a negative growth rate of 1% as these businesses migrate to the NGN and a discount rate of 10.6% indicated that the carrying value of these remaining assets should be written off, which is reflected in the impairment charge of 237 million.
The Directors consider the recoverable amount of Energis exceeds its carrying value.
The Directors have updated discounted cash flow forecasts from the recent acquisition to satisfy themselves of this.
The Group reviewed the carrying values of its interests in joint ventures at the end of the year.
An impairment totalling 4 million has been considered appropriate being 3 million in a Chinese joint venture, CITIC Cable & Wireless Broadband, and 1 million in a Solomon Islands joint venture, Solomon Telecom Company Limited.
17 Dividends declared and paid 2006 07 2005 06 m m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 71 60 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 40 32 Total dividend paid 111 92 During the year ended 31 March 2007 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 3.1 pence per share 2005 06 2.6 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Group has also declared and paid an interim dividend of 1.7 pence per share 2005 06 1.4 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 4.15 pence per share 2005 06 3.1 pence per share, totalling 97 million 2005 06 71 million for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 July 2007 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend.
13,009 shareholders 2005 06 13,644 shareholders owning 370 million shares 2005 06 528 million shares elected to take the interim dividend wholly or partly in shares.
13,278 shareholders 2005 06 13,795 shareholders owning 689 million shares 2005 06 180 million shares elected to take the final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
Total shares were issued with a value of 28 million 2005 06 12 million.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
79 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 18 Intangible assets Customer Goodwill Licences and contracts and Total restated Software concessions relationships Other restated m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2005 as previously reported 59 608 66 16 749 Business combinations prior year adjustment note 2.1 53 53 Reassessment in 2005 06 of business combinations note 41 c 8 8 Balance at 1 April 2005 as restated 104 608 66 16 794 Business combinations note 41 b 384 16 3 132 535 Business combinations prior year adjustment note 2.1 13 13 Acquired 265 5 36 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 21 21 Disposals 2 2 Exchange adjustments 2 3 1 At 1 April 2006 473 672 74 132 21 1,372 Business combinations note 41 a 71 71 Additions 37 340 Disposals 20 2 1 23 Transfers between categories 12 1 11 Transfers to property, plant and equipment 10 10 Exchange adjustments 1 7 1 1 10 At 31 March 2007 523 678 74 132 33 1,440 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2005 536 3 4 543 Charge for the year 32455 46 Impairment 60 60 Exchange adjustments 1 1 At 1 April 2006 629759 650 Charge for the year 16 4 12 18 50 Exchange adjustments 5 5 At 31 March 2007 640 11 17 27 695 Net book value At 31 March 2007 523 38 63 115 6 745 At 31 March 2006 restated 473 43 67 127 12 722 The goodwill recognised during 2006 07 relates to Monaco 34 million and Energis 37 million see note 41 a. Intangible assets recognised in business acquisitions made during 2005 06 represent: Amortisation Company acquired Intangible asset Useful life method Energis Customer contracts and relationships 415 years Straight line Energis Software 3 years Straight line Atlas Customer contracts and relationships 6 years Straight line Other than goodwill, there are no intangible assets with an indefinite life.
80 19 Property, plant and equipment 2006 07 2005 06 Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m m m m Cost At beginning of the period 533 6,570 333 7,436 453 6,052 247 6,752 Additions 5 40 318 363 977 294 380 Business combinations 25 172 41 238 Disposals 1 120 64 185 17 24 8 49 Transfers 19 358 377 53 175 228 Transfer from to intangibles 10 10 21 21 Transfer to held for sale assets 68 4 72 Exchange differences 27 261 16 304 10 118 8 136 At end of the period 461 6,583 204 7,248 533 6,570 333 7,436 Depreciation At beginning of the period 345 5,550 52 5,947 268 5,216 5,484 Charge for the year 15 221 236 15 213 228 Impairment 49 76 52 177 Disposals 1 120 52 173 9 22 31 Transfers 17 17 Transfer to held for sale assets 34 3 37 Exchange differences 10 180 190 584 89 At end of the period 315 5,468 5,783 345 5,550 52 5,947 Net book value at the end of the year 146 1,115 204 1,465 188 1,020 281 1,489 Included in the cost of plant and equipment at 31 March 2007 is 16 million 2005 06 16 million relating to assets held under finance leases.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets is 5 million 2005 06 4 million.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of 2 million 2005 06 3 million and 48 million 2005 06 45 million respectively.
81 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 20 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2006 07 2005 06 Interest in Interest in Interest in Interest in associates joint ventures Total associates joint ventures Total m m m m m m Gross carrying amount At beginning of the period Cost 6868 21 59 80 Equity loans 1 1 1 1 Share of post-acquisition reserves 1 158 157 64 146 210 226 226 86 205 291 Investment during the year Net assets 67 13 Share of after tax profit 12 27 15 25 29 54 Dividends 7 16 23 20 20 40 Disposals 5 5 1 1 Transfer to non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 105 105 Exchange differences 20 20 86 14 At end of the period 163 163 226 226 Impairment provision At beginning of the period 4 46 50 4 42 46 Impairment charge 4 4 Provision release 4 4 At end of the period 46 46 4 46 50 Net carrying amount at the end of the period 117 117 4 180 176 The disposal on 16 January 2007 of the Group's investment in Batelco resulted in a profit on disposal of 153 million as set out in note 10.
82 Investments in associates and joint ventures see note 45 are accounted for using the equity method.
The investment comprises the cost of the investment together with Groups share of post acquisition profit or loss less any impairments.
The Groups total interest in its associates and joint ventures is presented below: Associates Joint Ventures 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Non-current assets 217 225 Current assets 75 104 Non-current liabilities 5 110 92 Current liabilities 65 57 Share of net liabilities assets 5 117 180 Loan to associates 1 Carrying amount 4 117 180 Revenue 52 63 200 199 Operating costs 40 40 193 165 Exceptional impairment relating to TSTT 29 Operating profit loss 12 23 22 34 Net interest income 2 Net interest financing costs 3 1 Share of profit loss before tax 12 25 25 33 Taxation charge 2 4 Dividends paid to Group companies 7 20 16 20 Share of retained profit loss 5 5 43 9 There are no significant restrictions on associates or joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The associates and joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in associates and joint ventures.
The Groups associates and joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2007 2005 06 nil.
21 Investments 2006 07 2005 06 Fair value Fair value through income Available through income Available statement for sale Total statement for sale Total m m m m m m At beginning of the period 39 15 54 78 90 168 Disposals 39 39 40 15 55 Fair value gain to income statement 1 1 Fair value gain to equity 1010 Recycling of fair value changes to the income statement 70 70 At end of the period 1515 39 15 54 83 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 21 Investments continued Year-end financial investments comprise the following: 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Listed securities UK Government gilts 15 15 Unlisted securities Credit linked notes 39 The credit linked notes sold during the year were originally issued by two AA-rated banks and were aligned with the Groups 2012 bond.
These transactions had a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment.
They were sold during the year.
22 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 restated m m Trade receivables 616 661 Other receivables 128 131 Prepayments and accrued income 262 248 Taxation and social security receivables 7 7 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 2 8 Total gross amounts 1,015 1,055 Less: provision against receivables 98 81 Total trade and other receivables 917 974 Less: non-current portion 62 43 Trade and other receivables Current portion 855 931 Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
The provision comprises 98 million 2005 06 81 million related to trade receivables.
An impairment charge of 29 million 2005 06 19 million incurred in the normal course of business is recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2007.
All trade transactions with associates and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material transactions with associated companies and joint ventures during the year.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of receivables at 31 March 2007.
23 Inventories Inventories of 23 million 2005 06 31 million are presented net of a provision of 5 million 2005 06 13 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of consumables and accessories held for sale included in operating costs is 366 million 2005 06 274 million.
During the year, the Group recorded 1 million additional inventory provisions 2005 06 3 million.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
84 24 Cash and cash equivalents and other non-current assets Cash and cash equivalents typically include bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper and government securities.
These deposits generally have maturities not exceeding one year.
31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Cash in bank and hand 116 371 Short-term bank deposits 927 756 Cash and cash equivalents 1,043 1,127 Short-term bank deposits include money market and fixed income instruments, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 4.9% 2005 06 4.6%.
These deposits have an average maturity of 68 days 2005 06 71 days.
Included within cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year is an amount of 9 million 2005 06 17 million held by the Groups former insurance operation, Pender.
This amount is pledged against potential future claims arising from insurance policies written in prior years.
As such, it is not readily available for the general purposes of the Group.
Included within short-term deposits is 9 million 2005 06 33 million which is pledged as cash collateral against bank letters of credit.
Other non-current assets In certain jurisdictions in which the Group operates foreign exchange reserves are not readily available.
As such, cash totalling 11 million 2005 06 15 million subject to these restrictions has been classified as other non-current assets.
25 Assets held for sale Certain freehold property was identified as non-current assets held for sale at year end 2005 06 Investments in associates Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC Batelco.
In addition, at the end of the year Cable & Wireless Allnet Ltd had been identified as a disposal group held for sale.
The assets and liabilities of this business were carried in the balance sheet at the lower of their carrying value or the expected proceeds less cost to sell.
31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Non-current assets held for sale Investments in associates 105 Freehold property 34 Total non-current assets held for sale 34 105 Assets of disposal groups held for sale Property, plant and equipment 1 Other current assets 12 Cash and cash equivalents 5 Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 18 Total assets held for sale 52 105 Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale Trade and other payables 10 Total liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 10 The above assets and liabilities represent those which the Group is committed to dispose of at 31 March 2007, and were available for immediate sale at that date.
The Groups interest in Batelco was sold on 16 January 2007.
The proceeds and gain on disposal are disclosed in note 10.
85 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 26 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Trade payables 403 475 Payments received on account 4 4 Other taxation and social security 46 61 Other payables 113 142 Accruals 547 501 Deferred income 173 198 Total trade and other payables 1,286 1,381 Less non-current portion 65 Trade and other payables current portion 1,221 1,381 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables at 31 March 2007.
27 Loans and obligations under finance leases 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Loans and bonds 4% convertible unsecured bond due 2010 213 202 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 340 364 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 125 82 Euro loan repaid in 2006 106 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 18 1 696 755 Less current portion 68 134 Non-current portion of loans and bonds 628 621 Finance lease payables Obligations under finance leases 20 29 Less current portion 9 9 Non-current portion of obligations under finance leases 11 20 Total non-current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 639 641 Total current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 77 143 The Groups borrowings are not secured, except for 18 million of the US dollar loans 2005 06 33 million.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
86 The repayment profile of loans and obligations is: 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Loans and bonds Due in less than one year 68 134 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 10 11 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 265 228 Due in more than five years 353 382 Total loans and bonds 696 755 Interest is payable on loans and obligations falling due after more than five years at rates of between 6.55% and 8.75%.
31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Finance leases minimum lease payments Due in less than one year 11 11 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 12 11 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 12 Total obligations under finance leases 23 34 Less future finance charges on finance leases 3 5 Present value of finance lease liabilities 20 29 The present value of net finance lease liabilities is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Due in less than one year 9 9 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 11 9 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 11 Due in more than five years Present value of finance lease liabilities 20 29 Convertible unsecured bond On 16 July 2003, 257, 714,000 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par.
Each bond entitles the holder to convert the amount of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for each 1,000 held at an initial conversion price of 1.45 per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010.
Full conversion of the bonds would result in an additional 177, 733,748 shares being issued.
The bond also has a takeover protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion price, in the event of a change of control.
Also, if Cable & Wireless share price exceeds 1.885 for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days, Cable & Wireless has the right to give not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days notice that it will redeem all unconverted bonds still outstanding on a given date at par plus accrued interest.
If the bonds have not been converted, purchased and cancelled or redeemed by 16 July 2010 they will be redeemed at par on that date.
On the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 the fair value of the liability component and the equity conversion component was determined as at the date of issue of the bond.
The fair value of the liability component, included in long term borrowings, was calculated using an interest rate of 10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
The debt element is accounted for on an amortised cost basis.
The conversion option and takeover protection feature were marked to market at 1 April 2005 and recognised on the balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of 62 million.
As at this date, the derivative elements were carried on a fair value basis with changes in value being taken to the income statement.
This was required by IAS 39 because, when originally issued, the convertible bonds included a cash settlement option whereby the Company had the right to settle part of any conversion with cash rather than shares.
Subsequent to 1 April 2005 this cash settlement option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component of equity hence it is no longer revalued through the income statement.
87 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 27 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued The convertible bond is recognised on the balance sheet as follows: m Face value of convertible bond issued on 16 July 2003 258 Issue costs 6 Equity conversion component on initial recognition 75 Previous years amortisation of the liability component 15 Liability component on 1 April 2005 192 Interest expense 20 Interest paid 10 Liability component at 31 March 2006 202 Interest expense 21 Interest paid 10 Liability component at 31 March 2007 213 Interest expense on the bond is calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate 10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond.
The cash coupon paid on the convertible bond is unchanged at 4% per annum.
Sterling bonds The Group has the following sterling bonds: a 200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2007, net of costs, of 161 million 2005 06 184 million.
Interest is payable at 8.75% per annum.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group repurchased but did not cancel 20 million of this bond at an average price of 104.9 pence.
b 200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance at 31 March 2007, net of costs, of 179 million 2005 06 180 million.
Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group repurchased but did not cancel 1 million of this bond at an average price of 105.25 pence.
US dollar loans Various US dollar-based loans of approximately 125 million 2005 06 82 million are held by various subsidiaries across the Group.
Interest on these loans ranges between 0% and 7.
The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
Euro loans The European Investment Bank loan with a balance of 106 million at 31 March 2006, net of costs, was repaid during the year.
This loan bore interest at LIBOR minus 0.15% and interest was payable quarterly.
28 Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Monaco Telecom put option liability Current 60 Non-current 75 106 The balance within financial liabilities held at fair value through the income statement represents the fair value of the put option held by the minority shareholders of Monaco Telecom.
Although the Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, IAS 32 requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Group's control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill refer to note 41 c. The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches.
The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group from 1 January 2008.
The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group six months after the first has been exercised.
88 29 Derivative financial liabilites The fair value of the Groups derivative financial liabilities is presented below.
31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Liabilities current Cross currency swaps 15 Cross currency swaps The Group had a euro denominated loan the loan and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap the swap with terms matching those of the loan.
The loan and swap matured in September 2006.
At 31 March 2006 the loan was translated into sterling at the closing rate.
The swap was marked to market at the same date.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to the loan and swap.
Gains and losses on the swap materially offset the interest expense and exchange movements on the loan.
Forward exchange contracts The Group held forward exchange contracts of US$83 million at 31 March 2007 2005 06 US$44 million hedging currency exposures in US and Jamaican dollars.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to the forward exchange contracts.
The contracts are revalued to fair value at each reporting date.
Gains and losses on the contracts are recognised in the income statement.
30 Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups loans and obligations under finance leases.
Refer to note 46 for further information.
Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of the convertible bond and sterling bonds.
For all other financial liabilities the carrying amount has been used as it closely approximates fair value.
31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value m m m m Financial liabilities Convertible bond due in 2010 213 311 202 228 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 340 355 364 371 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 125 125 82 82 Euro loan repaid in 2006 106 106 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 18 18 11 Obligations under finance leases 20 20 29 29 Cross-currency swap 15 15 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate % % 4% convertible unsecured bond due in 2010 GBP 10.7 GBP 10.7 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 GBP 8.7 GBP 8.7 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 USD 6.3 USD 5.6 Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2012 Other 5.3 Other 10.0 Obligations under finance leases GBP 9.2 GBP 9.2 The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and short-term investments and loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 551 553 783 581 US dollar 338 125 115 82 Euro 112 114 106 Other currencies 47 18 115 1 1,048 696 1,127 770 89 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 31 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax asset and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Balance non-current sheet assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 21 26 29 Deferred tax liabilities 42 5 2 49 At 1 April 2005 21 3 4 20 Profit and loss charge credit 17 12 5 3 13 Tax charged to equity 2 2 Exchange adjustments 1 1 1 1 At 31 March 2006 39 13 10 2 34 Deferred tax assets 17 13 1 7 21 17 Deferred tax liabilities 56 11 5 21 51 At 31 March 2006 39 13 10 2 34 Profit and loss credit charge 14 6 5 3 Tax charged to equity 4 1 5 Exchange adjustments 5 1 2 1 5 At 31 March 2007 20 12 18 5 31 Deferred tax assets 34 12 3 21 28 Deferred tax liabilities 54 18 8 21 59 At 31 March 2007 20 12 18 5 31 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2006 3,666 12,330 121 91 16,208 At 31 March 2007 3,796 14,769 6 125 18,696 Tax losses of 18 million 2005 06 17 million expire within one year, 28 million 2005 06 16 million expire within three years, 14 million 2005 06 48 million expire within five years, 72 million 2005 06 19 million expire within ten years and 23 million 2005 06 64 million expire after more than ten years.
Other deferred tax assets are not subject to expiry.
The 14,769 million 2005 06 12,330 million tax losses include UK capital losses of 2,746 million arising in the year 2005 06 nil.
Other losses principally arise in overseas holding companies and the opportunity to realise benefits from them is considered remote.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unremitted earnings on which no provision has been made is 475 million 2005 06 2,829 million reflecting a Group reorganisation during the year.
90 32 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 2006 07 2005 06 Network Network and asset and asset Redundancy retirement Redundancy retirement Property costs obligations Other Total Property costs obligations Other Total m m m m m m m m m m At beginning of the year 55 36 91 100 282 119 59 112 177 467 Charged to income statement additional provision 53 39 7 17 116 443231989 amounts used 8 65 7 28 108 43 57 27 53 180 unused amounts reversed 19 2 14 28 63 28 9 41 53 131 Acquisitions 3 21 10 34 Discount adjustment 1 113 3 3 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 4 At end of the year 82 7 77 60 226 55 36 91 100 282 Less current portion 25 7122872 636113689 Non-current portion 57 65 32 154 49 80 64 193 Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Property provisions released in the year relate to Europe, Asia & US 16 million note 6 following the reassessment of its property portfolio and a release in respect of the Groups former US operation 3 million note 14.
Redundancy Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date.
Agreement had been reached with the local employee representatives that specified the number of staff involved and quantified the total amounts payable to those made redundant.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Redundancy cost provisions released in the year relate to International note 6.
Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and sub-sea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Network and asset retirement obligations provision releases in the year relates to International 13 million following the resolution of contractual disputes and Europe, Asia & US 1 million.
Other Other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group, the disposal of the previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against the Groups former insurance operation, Pender, and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments.
The release of unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims and other risks during the year.
Other provisions released in the year include an amount of 25 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect of the Groups former US operation note 14, 2 million in Europe, Asia & US and 1 million in International.
33 Retirement benefits obligations The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the Group.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on the employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes was 13 million 2005 06 9 million.
91 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued Defined benefit schemes UK main scheme funding valuation The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2005.
The projected unit credit method was used and the principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 2.7% and that future increases in pensionable earnings would be 3.7% per annum: investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.6% annual rate of return: investments held in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 5.25% annual rate of return: and pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3% for fixed guarantee pensions and 2.7% for inflation related pensions.
As at 31 March 2005, the value of the assets represented approximately 95% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2005 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The latest generally adopted mortality tables were used for the funding valuation, adjusted to reflect the schemes actual experience, and including an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
Under these assumptions the average life expectancy in 2005 was 26.5 years for a man aged 60 and 28.1 years for a woman aged 60.
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet future benefit accrual was 25% of pensionable earnings 20.3% employers and 4.7% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next independent actuarial valuation is carried out, which will be based on the position at 31 March 2008.
The terms of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund Trust Deed also allow the Trustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The future service contribution rate does not include an allowance for administration expense or the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
Contributions to meet these costs are reviewed periodically.
From 1 April 2005 contributions equal to 2% of pensionable earnings have been paid to cover administration expense and PPF levy.
Employers therefore paid a total contribution rate of 22.3% in 2006 07, or 10.5 million.
The actuarial valuation revealed that the deficit at 31 March 2005 was 81 million in the defined benefit scheme on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
On 31 March 2006, Cable & Wireless contributed 98 million, fully funding the scheme on an ongoing basis at that date.
The fund has a surplus of 92 million at 31 March 2007, based on an approximate update of the 2005 triennial valuation to reflect changes in the value of the funds assets and liabilities since that time.
The next triennial valuation takes place based on the position at 31 March 2008.
The Occupational Pension Schemes scheme funding Regulations 2005 did not apply to the 31 March 2005 valuation, but will apply to future funding valuations.
UK main scheme and other schemes IAS 19 valuation The actuarial valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2007 by qualified independent actuaries for all subsidiaries.
Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the UK main scheme and unfunded schemes, and reviewed the actuarial valuations prepared for subsidiaries.
Other schemes include unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
Also included are the Groups overseas schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey, Hong Kong, Ireland and the US.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows.
2006 07 2005 06 UK main scheme Other schemes UK main scheme Other schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption m % m % m % m % Inflation assumption 3.0 4.3 2.8 4.4 Salary increases 3.5 6.0 3.3 6.3 Pension increases 2.2-3.0 4.2 2.8-3.0 3.0 Discount rate 5.3 7.5 4.9 7.5 Medical cost trends for post retirement medical plans 10.3 11.5 Long term expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 1,113 7.8 87 7.9 995 7.5 83 8.2 Bonds and gilts 777 5.0 69 5.0 715 4.5 39 5.4 Property 164 6.5 37 7.0 131 6.0 31 6.9 Cash 25 4.5 17 4.4 137 4.3 83 5.2 2,079 210 1,978 236 The UK main scheme assumptions used by the actuary are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes, which similarly may not be borne out in practice.
92 The latest generally adopted mortality tables were used for the IAS 19 valuation, adjusted to reflect the schemes actual experience, and including an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
Under these assumptions the average life expectancy is 26.7 years for a man aged 60 and 28.3 years for a woman aged 60 in 2007.
A one year increase or decrease in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased or decreased the scheme liabilities by around 52 million.
A 0.25% change in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased or decreased the liabilities by around 113 million.
A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have increased or decreased the liabilities required by around 6 million.
The overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The UK main defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants.
Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes and post retirement medical plans operated by the Group are presented below: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 UK main Other UK main Other UK main Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m m m m Total fair value of plan assets 2,079 210 2,289 1,978 236 2,214 1,611 215 1,826 Present value of funded obligations 2,036 162 2,198 2,067 200 2,267 1,787 175 1,962 Excess of assets liabilities of funded obligations 43 48 91 89 36 53 176 40 136 Present value of unfunded obligations 40 40 38 38 31 31 Effect of asset ceiling 23 23 11 11 34 34 Net surplus deficit 43 15 28 89 13 102 176 25 201 Liabilities Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 33 33 89 39 128 176 40 216 Post retirement medical plans unfunded 14 14 15 15 11 11 Total 47 47 89 54 143 176 51 227 Assets Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 43 32 75 41 41 26 26 Actuarial gain loss on plan liabilities 77 3 80 224 14 238 36 9 27 Actuarial gain on plan assets 32 5 37 206 206 43 15 58 Included within these liabilities is an amount of 15 million 2005 06 15 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 UK main UK main scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Current service cost 14 6 20 16 5 21 Interest cost 101 16 117 95 14 109 Expected return on plan assets 121 21 142 105 19 124 Gains on curtailment or settlement 6 6 Total income expense 12 1 11 6 6 The defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses note 9.
The actual return on plan assets was 179 million 2005 06 330 million.
93 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued Net actuarial gains amounting to 117 million 2005 06 losses of 32 million have been recognised directly in equity and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
In addition a loss of 12 million 2005 06 gain of 23 million has been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses due to the change in the effect of the asset ceiling.
The total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2007 is an income of 105 million 2005 06 an expense of 9 million and income of 172 million 2005 06 67 million respectively.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2006 07 2005 06 UK main UK main scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Obligation at beginning of the period 2,067 238 2,305 1,787 206 1,993 Service cost 14 6 20 16 5 21 Interest cost 101 16 117 95 14 109 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 77 3 80 224 14 238 Employee contributions 2 2 4 3 2 5 Settlement curtailments 62834 Exchange differences on foreign plans 1919 6 6 Benefits paid 65 10 75 58 9 67 Obligation at end of the period 2,036 202 2,238 2,067 238 2,305 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: 2006 07 2005 06 UK main UK main scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Fair value of assets as at beginning of the period 1,978 236 2,214 1,611 215 1,826 Expected return 121 21 142 105 19 124 Actuarial gains recognised in equity 32 5 37 206 206 Contributions by employer 11 7 18 111 4 115 Employee contributions 224 325 Settlement curtailments 28 28 Exchange differences on foreign plans 23 23 55 Benefits paid 65 10 75 58 9 67 Fair value of assets as at end of the period 2,079 210 2,289 1,978 236 2,214 Experience gains for the period: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 UK main UK main scheme Other scheme Other m m m m Defined benefit obligation 2,036 202 2,067 238 Plan assets 2,079 210 1,978 236 Surplus deficit excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 43 8 89 2 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 7 5 15 14 Experience gain adjustments on plan assets 32 5 206 94 The best estimate of contributions for the following year is: 2007 08 UK main scheme Other Total m m m Employer contributions excluding one-off contributions 9 3 12 Employee contributions 224 The pension disclosures above include three post-retirement medical plans, one in Jamaica and two in Barbados.
An increase decrease in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs, and would increase decrease the accumulated defined benefit obligation by 3 million 2 million 2005 06 7 million 1 million.
34 Share capital 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Authorised 875 875 2006 07 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each 2005 06 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each Issued, called up and fully paid 615 605 2006 07 2,460,483,642 ordinary shares of 25p each 2005 06 2,421,046,668 ordinary shares of 25p each Number of shares m Issued, called up and fully paid At 1 April 2005 2,394,822,240 599 Allotted under share options scheme 16,731,953 4 Allotted under scrip dividends 9,492,475 2 At 31 March 2006 2,421,046,668 605 Allotted under share options scheme 15,906,014 4 Allotted under scrip dividends 23,530,960 6 At 31 March 2007 2,460,483,642 615 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was 10 million 2005 06 6 million.
The Company repurchased no shares in 2006 07 2005 06 14 million shares, representing 0.6% of issued share capital at 31 March 2006 for consideration of 17 million.
No treasury shares have been cancelled as at 31 March 2007.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2007 was 19 million 2005 06 19 million and 125 million 2005 06 82 million, respectively.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Allotments of ordinary shares of 25p each were made during the year in respect of the following: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Gross Gross Number of consideration Number of consideration allotted shares received allotted shares received Savings Related Share Option Scheme 4,839,092 3,561,002 8,699,598 3,574,305 Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2,129,125 1,154,318 2,463,200 1,221,971 Share Option Plan Approved 569,680 626,337 78,495 90,001 Share Option Plan Unapproved 8,368,117 9,325,263 5,490,660 5,908,034 1 Scrip dividends 23,530,960 9,492,475 Total 39,436,974 14,666,920 26,224,428 10,794,311 1 Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of 28 million 2005 06 12 million were issued during the year.
95 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 35 Share premium and other reserves Foreign currency Share Treasury Special Other Fair value translation Retained premium shares reserve reserves reserve reserve earnings Total restated restated restated m m m m m m m m At 1 April 2005 as previously stated 8 224 1,736 105 32 36 705 916 Prior year adjustment see note 2.1 13 13 At 1 April 2005 as restated 8 224 1,736 105 32 36 692 929 Premium on shares issued during the year 16 22 22 16 Own shares purchased 17 17 ESOP Trust shares issued to satisfy share awards 10 10 Conversion element of convertible bond transferred to equity 47 47 Profit for the year 76 76 Fair value gain on available for sale assets 7 7 Fair value gain on available for sale assets recycled to income statement 36 36 Actuarial gains recognised net of deferred taxation 10 10 Foreign currency translation reserves 46 46 Share-based payment costs 14 14 Dividends 92 92 At 31 March 2006 24 231 1,714 152 3 10 692 980 Premium on shares issued during the year 32 42 42 32 ESOP Trust shares issued to satisfy share awards 3 3 Profit for the year 174 174 Actuarial gains recognised net of deferred taxation 103 103 Foreign currency translation reserves 140 140 Share-based payment costs 25 25 Dividends 111 111 At 31 March 2007 56 228 1,672 152 3 130 459 1,066 Treasury shares Treasury shares relate to shares held in the Company directly or indirectly by the Group and include those shares held by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP Trust.
Special reserve The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account at February 2004 which was approved by the Company at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004.
It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid up share capital and share premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than that of the Company.
Other reserves Other reserves include a capital redemption reserve of 105 million 2005 06 105 million and an equity reserve of 47 million 2005 06 47 million resulting from the transfer of the conversion element of the Groups convertible bond from derivative financial instruments to equity.
96 36 Share-based payments Share option schemes The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2007 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows: Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme SAYE scheme, UK employees can enter a savings contract with a bank to save regular monthly sums of between 5 and 250 for a period of either three, five or seven years.
At the end of the savings contract, the participant receives interest from the bank on their savings.
The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over ordinary shares of the Company, which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at the date of grant.
The Company has extended the SAYE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme GSAYE scheme.
The GSAYE scheme is offered in various of the Groups territories excluding the UK and it operates along similar lines to the SAYE scheme with local variations to accommodate local legal and tax consideration.
The SAYE was last offered in June 2004 and GSAYE was last offered in December 2004.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme SESOS and the Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme RESOS.
Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and July 2001 are subject to performance conditions based on Cable & Wireless TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and turnover.
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three-month period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility.
For full vesting, Cable & Wireless TSR must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile.
If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
As at the date of this report, none of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in Companys published earnings per share excluding exceptional items measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year in which the option was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three-year period.
All such options became exercisable in full.
No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan approved and unapproved The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance conditions.
For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial award vests.
A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median.
If performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
For options granted from May 2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from that date will cease.
If performance conditions for these options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses.
For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group warrants the release of the shares.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of such awards.
In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on each subsequent anniversary.
These terms reflect normal practice in the US.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust The Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
At 31 March 2007 the Trust holds 36,792,665 shares with a cost of 100 million and a market value of 61 million.
The costs of running the Trust are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue.
The Trustees of the plan may notionally allocate ordinary shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff.
Shares are held in trust until such time as they may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the Performance share plan, the Restricted share plan, the Deferred short-term incentive plan and the Share option plan, details of which are given below.
The shares will be provided from existing ordinary shares in issue acquired by the Trustees.
Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards.
The Trust has waived its rights to dividends.
At 31 March 2007, there were 1,752,744 shares under contingent awards in relation to the Performance share plan, 20,058,081 shares under restricted share awards in relation to the Restricted share plan, 108,029 shares under the Deferred bonus plan, 1,349,252 shares under the deferred short-term incentive plan, 276,657 shares under the stock appreciation rights plan, and 14,673,250 shares under options in relation to the share option plan.
97 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 36 Share-based payments continued Other equity instrument awards Deferred short-term incentive plan Deferred STIP The Deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company, which are held in trust for three years before being released to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of the Company measured over a three-year period see Performance conditions for share-based awards.
A dividend award supplement also operates on the Deferred STIP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005 06 financial year, Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two-thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives could elect to pay up to one-third of any net bonus into the Deferred STIP.
Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis, i. e. for every 100 of net bonus invested in the Deferred STIP, participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on grant of 333.
Deferred bonus scheme Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior management bonus to purchase shares in the Company, which will be held in Trust.
Half of the purchased shares will be held in Trust for a two-year deferral period and the remaining half will be held in Trust for a three-year deferral period.
Participants will be awarded matching shares when the purchased shares vest at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan PSP Under the PSP, Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The plan rules limit the value of shares that can be granted to an individual in any year to 100% of salary.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions see Performance conditions for share-based awards.
A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan RSP The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to executives and selected employees below the Executive Directors, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of long term incentive arrangements when transferring to the Company.
Generally, 50% of any restricted shares awarded under this plan vest after one year with the remaining 50% vesting after three years.
During the year, the restricted share plan was also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds into Company shares.
Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive continuing to hold the invested shares and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions.
100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
Performance conditions for share-based awards TSR is the main performance measure used in the share option plan, the Deferred STIP and the PSP as it provides an objective external measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of companies.
The Companys relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparator group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index FTSE GTSI, which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Companys TSR ranking relative to the comparator group at the end of a single three-year performance period.
Cash-based awards Stock appreciation rights plan SARs The SARs is used to exactly replicate the plans described above but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Other schemes Cable & Wireless share purchase plan The Company also offers its employees who are chargeable to income tax, under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the Cable & Wireless share purchase plan the Plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan.
Under the Plan, employees can contribute up to a value of 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company.
98 Shares are held in a UK resident trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and national insurance contributions payable in such events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years.
Dividends on the partnership shares are reinvested in additional dividend shares.
High Performance Incentive Plan HPIP The HPIP provides for share awards at nil cost to senior managers in International.
It is a three-year incentive plan and the scheme is worth up to 100% of a participants salary at the grant date.
The awards are based on performance periods years one and two that then vest after years two and three respectively, with the financial year 2006 07 being year one.
The performance targets are based on EBITDA and cash flow.
On vesting the shares are worth the maximum of the prevailing market value and the grant price.
A relatively small element of the HPIP is formed as a Phantom HPIP whereby the payments under the plan are made in cash rather than in shares.
UK Share Award On 25 July 2006, all permanent employees and fixed-term contractors based in the UK were awarded 1,000 in Cable & Wireless shares as a one-off gift.
Share options Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2007 resulted in 18.6 million shares 31 March 2006 18.7 million shares being issued at the average exercise price of 94 pence each 31 March 2006 69 pence each.
The related market weighted average share price at the time of the exercise was 141 pence per share 31 March 2006 125 pence per share.
99 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 36 Share-based payments continued The weighted average fair value, at measurement date, of the 13 million 2005 06 14 million options granted during the year ended 31 March 2007 was 22.14 pence 2005 06 34.41 pence.
The Company computes the fair value of its share option awards using the Black-Scholes-Merton formula model for the Savings related and Global savings related share option schemes and the Monte Carlo pricing model for the share option plans Approved, Unapproved and US.
The following assumptions were used in the fair value exercise as at 31 March 2007 for the options granted during 2006 07: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes Weighted average share price 134.94 128.83p Weighted average exercise price 103.13 130.86p Dividend yield 3.9% 4.3% 3.4% 3.9% Expected volatility 30.4% 31.4% 27.9% 39.6% Risk-free interest rates 4.7% 4.1% 4.4% Expected lives of the options 4 4 The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily shares prices over a historical period equal to the expected lives of the options.
During 2002 and 2003, significant restructuring was carried out at Cable & Wireless and the Directors consider the share price volatility over that period is unrepresentative of future volatility.
Accordingly, for the purposes of calculating historical volatility and share price correlations Cable & Wireless share price movements from 1 August 2002 to 31 December 2003 have been replaced with a synthetic stock.
This synthetic stock takes as a starting point the share price of Cable & Wireless on 31 July 2002.
The daily share price movements then track the average daily share price movements of six companies from the FTSE GTSI from that time until 31 December 2003.
From 31 December 2003 onwards the daily share price movements track the actual daily share price movements of Cable & Wireless.
The companies used to derive this synthetic share price were selected as those whose daily share price returns were most closely correlated with those of Cable & Wireless prior to and immediately after the synthetic period.
The synthetic Cable & Wireless share price was not used other than for calculating share price volatility and share price correlations.
Share price correlations and volatilities were calculated using daily return data for Cable & Wireless including the synthetic data for the relevant period and, where relevant, other comparator companies.
Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo simulations.
Other awards Awards granted during 2006 07 Weighted average Features incorporated Award Shares fair value in schemes DSTIP RSP 11,242,072 116.98 PSP HPIP 10,579,140 123.08 Cash Settled Phantom HPIP 1,512,806 160.26 UK share award 4,039,895 111.00 Awards granted during 2005 06 Weighted average Features incorporated Award Shares fair value in schemes DSTIP 1,361,186 119.00 TSR conditions RSP 17,694,393 118.52 PSP 2,102,358 56.41 TSR conditions No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are all equity settled transactions was 25 million 2005 06 14 million.
As the Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2, the charge only includes grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
100 37 Minority interests 2006 07 2005 06 restated m m Balance at beginning of the year as previously reported 281 326 Prior year adjustment 65 Balance as at beginning of the year as restated 281 261 Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 24 75 Dividends paid 96 51 Disposals 4 Balance as at end of the year 209 281 38 Cash flows from operating activities Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2006 07 2005 06 restated Note m m Continuing operations Profit for the year 206 73 Adjustments for: Tax expense 13 43 27 Depreciation 19 236 228 Amortisation 18 50 46 Impairment 16 237 Gain on termination of operations 11 15 34 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 153 72 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 11 Net loss on sale of Bulldog brand and retail broadband customer base 11 Finance income 12 52 87 Finance expense 12 80 81 Decrease in provisions 28 135 Share-based payments 36 25 14 Defined benefit pension scheme credit expense 33 11 6 LTIP charge 27 Defined benefit pension scheme top-up contributions 98 Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions 33 18 17 Share of results after tax of associates and joint ventures 20 11 54 Operating cash flows before working capital changes 401 204 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisitions and disposal of subsidiaries Decrease increase in inventories 8 4 Decrease in trade and other receivables 76 8 Decrease in payables 186 108 Cash generated from continuing operations 299 100 Discontinued operations Profit for the year 28 90 Adjustments for: Profit on disposal of investments 20 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 Changes in working capital 1 Decrease in provisions 28 64 Cash generated from discontinued operations 3 Cash generated from operations 299 103 101 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 39 Commitments Capital commitments at the end of the financial year, for which no provision has been made, are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Property, plant and equipment 75 77 Total capital commitments 75 77 In addition to the capital commitments above, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
Of the above, 11 million 2005 06 33 million relates to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its associates and joint ventures.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2007 is disclosed in note 6.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m No later than one year 95 97 Later than one year but not later than five years 140 206 Later than five years 147 128 Total minimum operating lease payments 382 431 40 Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 m m Trading guarantees 117 184 Other guarantees 59 61 Total guarantees 176 245 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business, guaranteeing the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The guarantees also enable the customer to obtain repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual obligations in full.
Some of these guarantees are uncapped.
Other guarantees include guarantees in respect of financial obligations principally in respect of leases, borrowings and letters of credit.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Whilst Pender, the Group's former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003 it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Detail of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
102 Other matters In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities.
There is no time limit or cap that applies generally, the Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund in 1999, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a portion of any future funding deficits.
Currently, the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
41 Business combinations There were no aquisitions of subsidiaries made during 2006 07.
A cash dividend of 15 million 2005 06 8 million was paid to the Principality of Monaco during the year which has been reflected as an increase in the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom.
a 2006 07 goodwill Additional goodwill of 34 million has been recognised in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM.
This reflects the effect of the change in the fair value of the put option issued as part of the business combination.
This change in the fair value is treated as contingent consideration.
The Directors have reassessed the probability of the contingent consideration payable as part of the the acquisition of Energis.
The present value of the contingent consideration payable has been calculated as 37 million based upon the Group share price at 31 March 2007. b 2005 06 acquisition of Energis On 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless purchased the entire share capital of Chelys Limited, the parent company of the Energis Group Energis, for a total consideration of 705 million.
The consideration was made up of 675 million debt repayment, 15 million to acquire the share capital of Chelys Limited and 15 million of direct costs incurred to acquire Energis.
The acquisitions made during 2005 06 are summarised below: 2005 06 Energis Atlas Total m m m Consideration paid 705 2 707 Goodwill arising on acquisitions 384 384 Fair value of net assets acquired 321 2 323 Cash outflows on acquisitions 705 2 707 Less: cash acquired in subsidiaries 97 97 Net cash outflow on acquisitions 608 2 610 As part of the Energis acquisition, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of 80 million.
The amount of contingent consideration is tied to the Companys share price and may be satisfied, at the Groups option, in either cash or shares of the Company.
Payments will be based on a ratio of 1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three month volume weighted average Cable & Wireless share price in the third year following completion exceeds the reference price of 135 pence.
Any payments would begin in March 2008, would be payable once a month until December 2008 and will be based upon Cable & Wireless volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date.
The terms and conditions of the contingent consideration include anti-dilution mechanisms similar to those in the 4% convertible bond issued by Cable & Wireless due 2010.
In addition, in the event of a change of control of Cable & Wireless, or in the event of its shares ceasing to be admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, a sum calculated in accordance with the terms of the contingent consideration will be payable in cash within ten business days.
In 2005 06, Energis contributed 266 million to revenues, 35 million to EBITDA and 2 million to profit from the date of acquisition.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2005 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 709 million, the contribution to EBITDA would have been 93 million and the contribution to Group profit would have been a loss of 56 million.
103 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 41 Business combinations continued Net assets and acquired goodwill are: Energis acquisition m Purchase consideration: Cash paid 690 Contingent consideration Direct costs related to acquisitions 15 Fair value of assets acquired 321 Goodwill as at 31 March 2006 384 Additional goodwill from contingent consideration 37 Goodwill as at 31 March 2007 421 The Directors have assessed the fair values of the assets and liabilities as follows: Alignment of accounting Book value policy Revaluations Fair value m m m m Software 19 19 Customer contracts and relationships 130 130 Property, plant and equipment 402 28 136 238 Trade and other receivables 124 6 130 Cash and cash equivalents 97 97 Trade and other payables 250 9 259 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 13 21 34 Total 360 24 15 321 The acquirees carrying amounts were recorded under UK GAAP.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Energis includes expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing UK corporate business, workforce valuations and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Cash and cash equivalents is stated net of amounts paid in respect of Energis management incentive plan.
c Monaco acquisition Cable & Wireless purchased the Monaco Telecom business in the financial year 2004 05, when the transaction was recorded at provisional values.
A reassessment of the fair values at the date of acquisition was performed during the 2005 06 financial year, within one year of the acquisition date.
This adjustment was made to the goodwill balance in 2004 05.
Additional adjustments to goodwill have been made as a result of fair value movements in the put option held by the Principality of Monaco.
These adjustments are made in the year the reassesment of fair value is made.
The adjustments to the goodwill balance are as follows: m restated Goodwill on acquisition 36 Reassessment of fair value adjustments 8 Prior year adjustment note 2.1 53 Exchange rate adjustment 3 Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2005 84 Exchange rate adjustments 2 Additional goodwill from contingent consideration note 2.1 13 Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2006 69 Additional goodwill from contingent consideration 34 Exchange rates adjustments 1 Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2007 102 104 42 Related party transactions Transactions with associates and joint ventures All trade transactions with associates and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material trade transactions with associated companies and joint ventures during the year.
The Group received 7 million 2005 06 20 million dividends from associates and 16 million 2005 06 20 million from joint ventures for the year ended 31 March 2007 as set out in note 20.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures in respect of trading balances are set out in note 22.
Transactions with key management personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel, including loans advanced to Directors or other key managers, except for those relating to remuneration, disclosed in notes 9 and 36, and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
43 Licences and concessions In a number of countries the Group holds licences or concessions to operate.
These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire as it has done in the past.
Were renewal not to occur, in most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government at market value or net book value.
In a small number of locations, transfer is at a value below carrying value: in these places the Group monitors closely the likelihood of licence renewal in order to ensure that should a licence not be renewed, the business assets have been written down to their recoverable value at the point of transfer.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Groups licences in the year.
44 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, Cable & Wireless is engaged in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
Cable & Wireless consider adequate allowance has been made in respect of these matters and does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a materially adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
45 Subsidiaries and joint ventures Ownership Issued share Local capital Via Class of Country of Area of currency million Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,033 100% Ordinary England UK Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA Balboa 316 49% Ordinary Panama Panama 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL Pataca 150 51% Ordinary Macau Macau and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd B$ 72 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd GBP 5 100% Ordinary England Caribbean 3 4 Monaco Telecom SAM Euro 2 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco Joint ventures 3 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd T$ 283 49% Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad and T obago and T obago 2 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Rufiya 190 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives 1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a subsidiary.
105 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 45 Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, associates, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
46 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Groups treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plcs Board of Directors.
Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Finance Director and the Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiary operating companies undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Central treasury function.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash, debt and hedging positions to Central treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of the treasury function include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups funding and cash resources are managed centrally.
Wherever possible individual companies in the Group are funded in, and operate in, their functional currency.
Cable & Wireless only uses derivatives and financial instruments including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by the Treasury Management Committee comprising of the Finance Director, Financial Controller, Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance and other senior financial managers as required and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Exchange rate risk Cable & Wireless trades in many countries and much of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
Where it is deemed appropriate the Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group.
In addition, overseas subsidiaries are generally financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As at 31 March 2007, the Group had in place forward foreign exchange contracts amounting to US$83 million.
The contracts mitigate risk in both investments and forecast cash receipts.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
In broad terms, based on the 2006 07 mix of profits, the impact of a unilateral 1% weakening of sterling would have been to increase the operating profit before exceptional items by approximately 2 million.
The Group does not undertake profit translation hedging activities.
106 As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
Currently there are no external foreign currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The Group currently does not undertake any hedges of long term currency trading flows.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt and surplus cash balances.
The treasury function may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2007.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate debt.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity, hence the exposure to fair value loss has not been modelled.
Credit risk Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are entities rated A1 short term and or AAlong term by Standard and Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on an ongoing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board with limits on the exposure to any one counterparty.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2007, Cable & Wireless had cash, current asset investment and short-term deposits of 1,048 million.
This amount included 18 million of cash pledged against liabilities, some contingent.
The surplus cash is a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
Approximately 83% of the Groups cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA-rated money market funds.
During 2005 06 the Group sold at par 40 million of credit linked notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to the Companys 200 million bond, which matures in 2012.
During 2006 07, the remaining 40 million of these credit linked notes were sold at par.
Further information on these transactions is given in note 21.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the parent company.
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
