The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details The Managers Dividend Reinvestment Plan for Ordinary Allianz Global Investors is the marketing name of RCM UK Shareholders Limited, Allianz Groups regulated UK fund management company, Dividend reinvestment has always been an option for Share Plan which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services and or Pep ISA investors and the Company is pleased that a similar Authority.
facility is now to be made available to Ordinary Shareholders as well.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan is to be operated by the Allianz Global Investors is one of the largest fund managers in Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars.
Capita will enclose an Europe, and as at 31 December 2006, had combined assets of introductory card with the final dividend payment in May, and 876 billion under management.
Through its predecessors, it has a further information on the Terms and Conditions, and details of heritage of investment trust management expertise in the UK how to apply, can be requested by completing and returning the stretching back to the nineteenth century and had 1.3 billion card to the Registrars.
assets under management in a range of investment trusts as at 31 December 2006.
Market and Portfolio Information The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Results Exchange.
The market price, price range, gross yield and net asset Half-year announced in September value are shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily Full-year announced in March Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares is calculated Report and Accounts posted to shareholders in April weekly and published by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory Annual General Meeting held in May News Service.
The geographical spread of investments and ten largest holdings are also published monthly by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
They are also available to any Ordinary Dividends enquirer of Allianz Global Investors, either via Investor Services on First quarterly paid in August 0800 317 573 or on the Managers website: Second quarterly paid in November www.
Third quarterly paid in February Final usually paid in May Share Prices The share prices quoted in the London Stock Exchange Daily Preference Dividends Ofcial List for 31 January 2007 were 512.75p 513.25p.
Payable half-yearly on 1 August and 1 February For CGT indexation purposes, at 31 March 1982 the share price, Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank Accounts after adjustment for bonus issues, was 48.75p.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to first-named shareholders at their registered address together with a tax voucher.
Dividends Share Plan may be paid directly into shareholders bank accounts.
Details of how this may be arranged can be obtained from the Registrars, The Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust Share Plan provides a convenient and economical way for shareholders to increase their Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Dividends mandated in this way are paid via BACS existing holdings.
Investments can be in the form of a regular monthly contribution, or an individual lump sum or a combination Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Tax vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders at their registered address unless other of the two.
There are arrangements for the reinvestment of dividends and for selling and switching.
Full details of the plan are instructions have been given.
available from Allianz Global Investors, either via Investor Services on 0800 317 573 or the Managers website: www.
47 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details Investment Trust Maxi ISA and PEP Transfer Managers and Advisers Shareholders can invest in the shares of the Company through the Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust Maxi ISA and PEP Fund Manager Transfer.
Full details are available from Allianz Global Investors, RCM UK Limited either via Investor Services on 0800 317 573 or the Managers Represented by Simon Gergel website: www.
Secretary and Registered Ofce Website Kirsten Salt BA Hons ACIS Further information about the The Merchants Trust PLC is available 155 Bishopsgate on the Managers website: London EC2M 3AD www.
Telephone: 020 7065 1513 Association of Investment Companies AIC Registered Number 28276 The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade body of the investment trust industry, which provides a range of literature Registrars and Transfer Ofce including fact sheets and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of Capita Registrars these publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th Floor, The Registry 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at www.
34 Beckenham Road Beckenham AIC Category: UK Growth and Income Kent BR3 4TU Telephone if calling from within the UK : 0870 162 3100 Shareholders Enquiries Telephone if calling from overseas : 44 20 8639 2157 Capita Registrars are the Companys registrars and maintain the Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
In the event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, lost certicates, dividend cheques, registered details, etc.
Independent Auditors shareholders should contact them on 0870 162 3100 or, if  LLP telephoning from overseas, 44 20 8639 2157.
Changes of name Southwark Towers and address must be notied to the Registrars in writing.
32 London Bridge Street London SE1 9SY Any general enquiries about the Company should be directed to the Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, Bankers London EC2M 3AD.
HSBC Bank Barclays Bank Stockbroker JPMorgan Cazenove Legal Advisers Herbert Smith LLP Allianz Global Investors Telephone: 0800 317 573 or www.
