The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2007 1.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of xed asset investments, and in accordance with the United Kingdom law, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP issued in December 2005 by the Association of Investment Companies formerly the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
Revenue Dividends on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Income from convertible securities having an element of equity is recognised on an accruals basis.
Interest receivable on non-equity shares is recognised on an accruals basis.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and treated as a capital or revenue item depending on the facts and circumstances of each dividend.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable and stocklending fees are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is recognised when the issue underwritten closes.
Investment management fees and administrative expenses The investment management fee is calculated on the basis set out in Note 2 to the accounts and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue returns.
Other administrative expenses are charged in full to revenue, except handling charges which are charged to capital.
Valuation Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Listed investments are valued at bid market prices.
Unlisted investments are valued by the Directors based upon the latest dealing prices, stockbrokers valuations, net asset values, earnings and other known accounting information in accordance with the principles set out by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines issued in March 2005.
An unrealised Capital Reserve has been established to reect differences between value and book cost.
Net gains or losses arising on realisation of investments are taken directly to the realised Capital Reserve.
Finance costs In accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement, long term borrowings are stated at the amount of net proceeds on issue plus accrued finance costs to date.
Finance costs are calculated over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Where debt is issued at a premium, the premium is amortised over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Finance costs net of amortised premiums are charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue returns.
Dividends payable on the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are classied as an interest expense and are charged in full to revenue.
Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the Companys effective rate of Corporation tax for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the accounts.
32 The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2007 A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rate of Corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The Effect of changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, the Company is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the Company predominately operates.
The functional and reporting currency is pound sterling, reecting the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
profits and losses thereon are recognised in Capital Reserves.. 8.
Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend payable on Ordinary Shares is recognised as a liability when approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when paid.
Preference Stock In accordance with FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock is classied as a liability as the rights of the stockholders to receive dividend payments are not calculated by reference to the Companys profits.
