Shareholder Information Financial calendar Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP The timing of the announcement and publication of the Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Companys results may normally be expected in the months purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend shown below: reinvestment forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0870 707 1187.
Shareholders who February have already opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to Preliminary results and final dividend for year to re-apply.
The last date for registering for this service for the 31 December announced forthcoming dividend is 27 March 2008.
Annual report and financial statements published Share price March April The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted Annual General Meeting daily in The Financial Times under Investment Companies and in The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Investment March April Trusts.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock Dividend paid Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its August Interim figures to 30 June announced and half yearly ISIN SEDOL numbers financial report published The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys shares are: Dividend 2007 Ordinary Shares The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended ISIN GB0005774855 31 December 2007 is 3.00p per share.
L The Board has declared a special dividend of 2.50p per share Bloomberg code MLW LN payable on the same date as the final dividend.
Ex-dividend date Share dealing shares transferred without the dividend 20 February 2008 Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company Record date last date for registering transfers to or sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through receive the dividend 22 February 2008 a stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Last date for registering DRIP instructions 27 March 2008 Dividend payment date 17 April 2008 For existing shareholders, the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, has both internet and telephone share dealing services.
The telephone Payment of dividends share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named To access the internet share dealing log on to shareholder at their registered address.
To use these services, be paid direct into a shareholders bank account via you will need your shareholder reference number, which is BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Service detailed on your certificate.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor CREST Services PLC on 0870 707 1187 or by completing the Mandate The Companys shares have joined CREST, an electronic Instructions section on the reverse of your dividend system for uncertificated securities trading.
counterfoil and sending this to the Companys registrar, Private investors can continue to retain their share Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders at certificates and remain outside the CREST system.
Private their registered address, unless other instructions have been investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same given, to arrive on the payment date.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 59 Shareholder Information continued way as they did prior to the introduction of CREST, although Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries there may be differences in dealing charges.
may lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral production potentially leading to price reductions.
Electronic communications There may be exposure to significant currency, political Computershare provides a service to enable shareholders to and nationalisation risks due to the location of the receive correspondence electronically including annual and operation of companies in which the Company may invest.
half yearly financial reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to receive documents in this way, paper documents will Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile only be available on request unless electronic submission and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
fails, in which case a hard copy will be mailed to the Any investment in the Company will involve an above investors last known address.
average risk and is suitable only for financially Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice sophisticated investors.
of Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future the relevant section of the BlackRock website where the performance.
The value of your investment in the documents can be viewed and printed.
Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the For more information, to view the terms and conditions and value of the underlying investments fluctuate.
to register for this service, please visit Computershares internet site at www-uk.
com investor you Duration of the Company will need your shareholder reference number, which is given Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual on your share certificate or tax voucher.
General Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Company for a further twelve months.
Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes Nominee Code electronically via Computershares internet site at Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the www-uk.
com proxy using a unique Company undertakes: identification PIN which will be provided with voting to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
shareholder communications, so long as an indication of CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or quantities has been provided in advance: give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy to allow investors holding shares through a nominee appointment service may do so by using the procedures company to attend general meetings, provided the described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in correct authority from the nominee company is available: the notes on the Form of Proxy and the Notice of Annual and General Meeting.
that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Risk Factors Savings Plan, ISA or PEP are automatically sent As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares shareholder communications, including details of is also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
general meetings, together with a form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend.
The price at which the Companys shares trade on the London Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the value although they are related and therefore you necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the may realise returns which are lower or higher than Companys general meetings.
A lack of growth in world industrial production may adversely affect metal prices.
60 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis Personal Equity Plan PEP The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is PEPs have been superseded by ISAs as the tax-efficient calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments method of investment, but all PEP investments already in and performance being published monthly.
force by 5 April 1999 retained their tax-free status in line with ISAs.
Existing PEPs with other fund managers may be The daily NAV per share and monthly information are transferred to BlackRock for investment in the Companys released through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory ordinary shares without affecting any tax benefits.
News Service and are available on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its and through the Reuters News For more information on PEP transfers, or an existing Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic BlackRock Investment Trusts PEP, call free on 0800 44 55 22.
3 ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly information only.
Shareholder enquiries The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services Internet PLC.
In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares, Other details about the Company are also available please contact the registrar on 0870 707 1187.
Changes of on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its name or address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: and shareholders can check details of their Computershare Investor Services PLC holdings on Computershares website at The Pavilions www-uk.
Bridgwater Road The financial statements and other literature are published Bristol BS99 6ZY on the BlackRock website.
Visitors to the website need to be Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the through the Computershare investor centre website.
As a preparation and dissemination of the financial statements security check, specific information needs to be input may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
accurately to gain access to an individuals account.
This includes your shareholder reference number, available Savings Plan from either your share certificate or tax voucher.
The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment The address of the Computershare website is Trusts Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly www-uk.
investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like General enquiries information on the Savings Plan should call BlackRock free Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: on 0800 44 55 22.
The Secretary Individual Savings Accounts ISA Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by 33 King William Street the Government.
The Company is a qualifying investment for London EC4R 9AS the purposes of investment in the stocks and shares Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 component of either a maxi or mini ISA.
Investors may Enquiries about the Savings Plan, ISA or PEP should be currently invest up to 7,000 in the stocks and shares directed to: component of a maxi ISA, or up to 3,000 in the stocks and shares component of a mini ISA in each tax year.
From 6 April Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB 2008, these annual investment limits will increase to 7,200 BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited and 3,600 respectively.
PO Box 9036 Chelmsford CM99 2XD The Companys shares are eligible investments within the Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 stocks and shares component of the BlackRock Investment Trusts ISA, which is a maxi ISA, details of which are available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 61
