Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth Annual General a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of Meeting of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc will be held rights, open offer or other offer of securities, to at the offices of BlackRock Investment Management UK holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as Limited, 33 King William Street, London EC4R 9AS on may be practicable to their respective holdings of Thursday, 10 April 2008 at 11.30 a. m. to transact the such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other following business: arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or Ordinary business any legal or practical problems under the laws of any 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial territory, or the requirements of any recognised statements for the year ended 31 December 2007, regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other together with the report of the Auditor thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above year ended 31 December 2007. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 430,358: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 3.00p per ordinary share.
and such power shall expire on 9 October 2009 except that the Company may before such expiry make offers 4.
To re-elect Mr O A G Baring as a Director.
or agreements which would or might require equity 5.
To re-elect Mr G H Sage as a Director.
securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot or 6.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the sell equity securities in pursuance of such offers or Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors 10.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority remuneration.
to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the Company Shares, the Company be and it is hereby Special business authorised in accordance with section 166 of the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market as an ordinary resolution.
purchases of Shares within the meaning of section 163 of 8.
That the Company shall continue in being as an the Act provided that: investment trust.
a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of as special resolutions.
the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: 9.
That, in substitution for the equivalent authority granted at the Annual General Meeting held on 22 March 2007 the b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered be paid for a Share shall be 5p, being the nominal pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the value per Share: Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may the Act of the Company for cash, pursuant to the be paid for a Share shall be the higher of 5% above the authority conferred by the resolution to allot relevant average of the market values of the Shares for the five securities passed on 22 March 2007 and to sell equity business days immediately preceding the date of the securities within the meaning of section 94 of the Act purchase, the price of the last independent trade and which are held by the Company in treasury as defined in the highest current bid on the trading venues where Section 162A 3 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act the purchase is carried out: and did not apply to any such allotments and sales, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment and sale d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall of equity securities: expire on 9 October 2009 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase 62 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc Shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
All Shares purchased pursuant to the above authority shall be either: a cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase: or b held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary 14 February 2008 Registered Office: 33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, vote and speak in his her stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms of Proxy must reach the office of the Companys registrar by 11.30 a. m. on 8 April 2008.
A Form of Proxy is provided to shareholders with the annual report.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www-uk.
com proxy by using the PIN and SRN numbers printed on the Form of Proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 11.30 a. m. on 8 April 2008.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 8 April 2008 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act who have been sent this Notice of Meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the 2006 Act, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the Directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 63
