qxd 3 3 08 18:01 Page 88 Financial statements continued 1.
Nature of operations and accounting policies continued liabilities of associated undertakings and interests in joint ventures are incorporated into the Groups financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of the profit after interest and tax of associated undertakings and joint ventures is included as one line below profit from operations.
Investment in associated undertakings and interest in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity.
All associated undertakings have financial years that are coterminous with the Groups, with the exception of Camelot Group plc Camelot whose financial year ends in March.
The Groups share of the profits of Camelot is based on its most recent, unaudited financial statements to 30 September.
e Segmental analysis Business reportable segments Following the split of the former Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA region into two regions the Groups operational management structure has five business segments, each with its own leadership team.
These five business segments, which are the Groups primary reportable segments, are: Britain, Ireland, Middle East and Africa BIMA, Europe, Americas Confectionery, Asia Pacific and Americas Beverages.
The 2006 business segmental analysis for EMEA has been re-presented to show BIMA and Europe on a comparable basis.
Americas Confectionery, BIMA and Europe produce and distribute confectionery products in their respective geographical markets.
The Asia Pacific segment produces and distributes confectionery and beverages products in the Asia Pacific region.
Americas Beverages market, produce and distribute branded soft drinks in North America.
Confectionery comprises the segments BIMA, Europe, Americas Confectionery and Asia Pacific as well as central costs as these primarily relate to the Confectionery business.
Regional teams manage the segments as strategic business units.
They are managed separately because of the differing market conditions and consumer tastes in the different geographies, which require differing branded products and marketing strategies.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Secondary reportable segments The Group presents geographical information for the following areas: UK, US, Australia, Euro zone and Central and Southern America.
The Euro zone segment includes all countries that currently operate the Euro and whose central bank interest rates are set by the European Central Bank.
In this way all these countries have similar economic criteria, e. g. low inflation, equal interest rates and identical exchange rates with other countries.
As the Euro zone countries are all members of the European Union, they also all have similar political conditions.
The Central and Southern American countries all operate in areas of higher than average inflation and central bank interest rates.
The economies of the region are less stable than those of the developed world and have a greater than average risk of significant currency fluctuations.
Basis of allocation of costs between segments Certain central costs are considered to relate to the operating segments, for example where individuals have dual roles or services are provided by a Group function instead of external contractors, for example IT or legal services.
These costs are recharged with a suitable mark-up and settled as other trading intercompany balances.
f Foreign currencies Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations of monetary items in trading transactions are included within profit from operations whilst those arising on financing transactions are recorded within the financing line.
The functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries is the local currency in which each subsidiary is located.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the end of the financial year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings for the financial year are translated into sterling at an annual average rate, calculated using the exchange rates ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings or date of control in the case of acquisitions during the year to the rate ruling at the end of the financial year are taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
In addition, the exchange differences arising from the retranslation of overseas profit and losses from average rate to closing rate are taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
g Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales and royalties excluding inter-company sales, value added tax and sales taxes that arise as a result of the Groups sale of branded chocolate, candy and gum confectionery products and branded soft drinks.
It is stated net of trade discounts, sales incentives, up-front payments, slotting fees and other non-discretionary payments.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer, the price is fixed or determinable and collection of the amount due is reasonably assured.
A provision for sales returns is estimated on the basis of historical returns and is recorded so as to allocate these returns to the same period as the original revenue is recorded.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
88 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p76-137.
qxd 3 3 08 18:02 Page 89 h Research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is assessed and capitalised if it meets all of the following criteria: an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over their expected economic lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the financial year in which it is incurred.
i Advertising costs The Group expenses all advertising costs as incurred and no amounts are capitalised for direct response advertising.
j Share-based payments The Group has previously disclosed fair values for share-based payments under US GAAP.
Consequently, as permitted by the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment the Group opted for full retrospective adoption upon transition to IFRS.
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award.
Methods used include Binomial models, Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
k Restructuring costs The restructuring of the Groups existing operations and the integration of acquisitions gives rise to significant incremental one-off costs.
The most significant component of these restructuring costs is typically redundancy payments.
The Group views restructuring costs as costs associated with investment in future performance of the business and not part of the Groups trading performance.
These costs have a material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the Group profit from operations and operating margins.
Therefore such restructuring costs are shown as a separate line item within profit from operations on the face of the income statement.
In 2007, the Group has incurred costs which are restructuring in nature but relate to the maintenance of an efficient business.
These costs are termed business improvement costs and are included within the underlying results of the business as they are expected to be incurred each year and hence will not distort the performance trends of the business.
In 2006 no business improvement costs were incurred as all restructuring related to the Fuel for Growth programme.
Restructuring costs and business improvement costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
A liability is recognised for unsettled restructuring costs.
l Non-trading items Cadbury Schweppes trade is the marketing, production and distribution of branded confectionery and beverage products.
As part of its operations the Group may dispose of or recognise an impairment of subsidiaries, associates, investments, brands and significant fixed assets that do not meet the requirements to be separately disclosed outside of continuing operations, or recognise expenses relating to the separation of a business which does meet requirements to be separately disclosed as a discontinued operation.
These discrete activities form part of the Groups operating activities and are reported in arriving at the Groups profit from operations: however, management does not consider these items to be part of its trading activities.
The gains and losses on these discrete items can be significant and can give rise to gains or losses in different reporting periods.
Consequently, these items can have a material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the Group profit from operations and operating margins.
Therefore any gains and losses including transaction costs incurred on these non-trading items are shown as a separate line item within profit from operations on the face of the income statement.
m Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year increased by the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares primarily share awards.
Underlying EPS represents basic EPS, adjusted in order to exclude amortisation and impairment of acquisition intangibles, restructuring costs, non-trading items, UK product recall, contract termination gain, Nigeria adjustment, the release of disposal tax provisions, the IAS 39 adjustment and associated tax effect as described in Note 1 y. Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 89 U53441 p76-137.
qxd 3 3 08 17:59 Page 90 Financial statements continued 1.
Nature of operations and accounting policies continued n Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and assessed for impairment at least annually.
Where applicable the asset is treated as a foreign currency item and retranslated at each year end.
Where an impairment test is performed on goodwill, a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash-generating unit CGU and comparing the carrying value of assets of the CGU with their recoverable amount.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular businesses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Upon a step acquisition from associate to subsidiary, the acquirees assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair value in the Groups balance sheet.
Goodwill is calculated separately at each stage of the acquisition using the share of the fair value of net assets acquired.
This gives rise to the creation of an IFRS 3 revaluation reserve as a separate component within equity which represents the fair value uplift attributable to the previously held share of assets and liabilities.
A reserves transfer will be made to offset any incremental depreciation on the revalued assets.
Upon disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture the attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
o Acquisition intangibles Brands The main economic and competitive assets of the Group are its brands, including the Cadbury and Schweppes brands, which are not on the balance sheet as these are internally generated.
The Group carries assets in the balance sheet only for major brands that have been acquired since 1986.
Acquired brand values are calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, which is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
Intangible assets are treated as local currency assets and are retranslated to the exchange rate in effect at the end of the financial year.
Where the Group licenses the use of a brand then there is no value recognised in the Groups accounts.
No amortisation is charged on over 95% of brand intangibles, as the Group believes that the value of these brands is maintained indefinitely.
The factors that result in the durability of brands capitalised is that there are no material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangibles.
Furthermore: The Group is a brands business and expects to acquire, hold and support brands for an indefinite period.
The Group supports these brands through spending on consumer marketing across the business and through significant investment in promotional support.
The brands capitalised are expected to be in longstanding and profitable market sectors.
The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a brands life is relatively remote because of the size, diversification and market share of the brands in question.
The Group owns the trademark for all brands valued on the balance sheet and renews these for nominal cost at regular intervals.
The Group has never experienced problems with such renewals.
Where a brands life is not deemed to be indefinite it is written off over its expected useful life on a straight-line basis.
Other The Group also recognises certain other separately identifiable intangible assets at fair value on acquisition.
These include customer relationships, customer contracts and the exclusive rights to distribute branded products in certain geographical areas franchise rights, including where such rights were granted to the acquired entity by the Group prior to its acquisition.
No amortisation is charged on franchise rights acquired through acquisition where the rights relate to brands owned by the Group and these brands have been assigned an indefinite life.
This is because the Group believes that these rights will extend indefinitely.
Impairment review The Group carries out an impairment review of its tangible and definite life intangible assets when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those assets may have suffered an impairment loss.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or of a cash-generating unit with the recoverable amount, that is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows, using a discount rate based on an estimate of the rate that the market would expect on an investment of comparable risk.
p Software intangibles Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose.
These costs are amortised over their expected useful life on a straight-line basis, with the lives reviewed annually.
90 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p76-137.
qxd 3 3 08 17:59 Page 91 q Property, plant and equipment and leases Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Under UK GAAP, certain assets were revalued in 1995 and the depreciated revalued amount was treated as deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
Depreciation is charged excluding freehold land and assets in course of construction so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual value, over their expected useful lives using the straight-line method.
The principal rates are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 2.5% Plant and machinery 7%10% Vehicles 12.5%20% Office equipment 10%20% Computer hardware 12.5%33% Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are available for use, at which time they are transferred into one of the categories above and depreciated according to the rates noted.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset and the life of the lease.
In specific cases different depreciation rates are used, e. g. high-speed machinery, machinery subject to technological changes or any machinery with a high obsolescence factor.
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred to the Group finance leases the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
For property leases, the land and buildings elements are treated separately to determine the appropriate lease classification.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement as a financing charge.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged wholly to the income statement.
r Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of average cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct material and labour costs together with the relevant factory overheads including depreciation on the basis of normal activity levels.
Amounts are removed from inventory based on the average value of the items of inventory removed.
s Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
t Assets held for sale and discontinued operations When the Group intends to dispose of, or classify as held for sale, a business component that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations it classifies such operations as discontinued.
The post tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on the face of the income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when management are committed to the sale, the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from classification and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Disposal groups are classified as discontinued operations where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The income statement for the comparative periods will be represented to show the discontinued operations separate from the continuing operations.
u Taxation The tax charge for the year includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred taxation.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the financial year and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 91 U53441 p76-137.
qxd 3 3 08 18:01 Page 92 Financial statements continued 1.
Nature of operations and accounting policies continued Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its associated tax basis or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its associated tax basis.
Deferred tax is provided for any differences that exist between the tax base and accounting base of brand intangibles arising from a business combination.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
The Group is able to control the timing of dividends from its subsidiaries and hence does not expect to remit overseas earnings in the foreseeable future in a way that would result in a charge to taxable profit.
Hence deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred tax is recognised for unremitted overseas earnings on its associates and interests in joint ventures.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
w Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
Payments to state-managed retirement benefit schemes where the Groups obligations are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme are treated in the same manner.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing the benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised straight line over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within Profit from Operations.
The expected return on plan assets less the interest arising on the pension liabilities is presented within Financing.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of profit and loss and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the longterm yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension plan.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
Where a deep market for corporate bonds exists, the discount rate applied in arriving at the present value represents yields on high quality corporate bonds in a similar economic environment with lives similar to the maturity of the pension liabilities.
In the absence of a deep market for such corporate bonds a government bond yield is used.
Any net assets resulting from this calculation are limited to the extent of any past service cost, plus the present value of guaranteed refunds even if available only at the end of the plan and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
x Financial instruments Recognition Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument on a trade date basis.
Derivative financial instruments The Group manages exposures using hedging instruments that provide the appropriate economic outcome.
Where it is permissible under IAS 39, the Groups policy will be to apply hedge accounting to hedging relationships where it is both practical to do so and its application reduces volatility.
Transactions that may be effective hedges in economic terms may not always qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Due to the nature of many of the Groups hedging and derivative instruments it is unlikely that hedge accounting will be adopted for these hedging relationships.
Consequently, movements in the fair value of derivative instruments will be immediately recognised in the income statement and may lead to increased volatility.
The Group will separately disclose the impact of such volatility.
92 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p76-137.
qxd 3 3 08 18:01 Page 93 The Group is exposed to a number of different market risks arising from its international business.
Derivative financial instruments are utilised by the Group to lower funding costs, to diversify sources of funding, to alter interest rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities or to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
These exposures fall into two main categories: Transactional exposures The Group is exposed to changes in prices of its raw materials, certain of which are subject to potential short and long-term fluctuations.
In respect of such commodities the Group enters into derivative contracts in order to provide a stable cost base for marketing finished products.
The use of commodity derivative contracts enables the Group to obtain the benefit of guaranteed contract performance on firm priced contracts offered by banks, the exchanges and their clearing houses.
In principle these derivatives may qualify as cash flow hedges of future forecast transactions.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the movement in the fair value of the derivative would be deferred in equity and released to the income statement as the cash flows relating to the underlying transactions are incurred.
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from its international trade.
The Group also enters into certain contracts for the physical delivery of raw materials which may implicitly contain a transactional currency exposure, an embedded derivative.
The Groups policy is to take forward cover for all forecasted receipts and payments including inter-company transactions for as far in advance as the pricing structures are committed, subject to a minimum of three months cover.
The Group makes use of the forward foreign exchange markets to hedge its exposures.
Treasury hedging Interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements are used to convert fixed rate borrowings to floating rate borrowings.
In principle, these derivatives would qualify as fair value hedges of the underlying borrowings.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the carrying value of the borrowings would be adjusted for changes in their fair value attributable to changes in interest rates through the income statement.
There would also be an adjustment to the income statement for the movement in fair value of the hedging instrument that would offset, to the extent that the hedge is effective, the movement in the carrying value of the underlying borrowings.
Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements are used to convert a proportion of floating rate borrowings to fixed rate.
In principle, these transactions would qualify as cash flow hedges of floating rate borrowings.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the movement in the fair value of the derivative would be deferred in equity and released to the income statement as the cash flows relating to the underlying borrowing are incurred.
However, where these transactions hedge another derivative e. g. fixed to floating rate interest rate swap, they would not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 because the risk being hedged is a risk created by the use of derivatives.
Forward currency contracts and currency swaps are used to convert the currency of floating rate borrowings.
In principle, the majority of these derivatives would qualify as net investment hedges of the exchange exposure on our net investment in foreign operations.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the gains or losses on fair valuation of the hedging instruments would be deferred in equity, where they would at least partially offset the gain or loss on retranslation of the net investment in the foreign operations, and be recycled to the Income Statement only on disposal of the foreign operation to which it relates.
Where it is neither practical nor permissible to apply hedge accounting to the Groups derivative instruments, the movements in the fair value of these derivative instruments are immediately recognised in the income statement within financing.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Appropriate allowances for estimated, irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs associated with the issue of the relevant financial liability.
Subsequent to initial measurement, borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the borrowing costs being accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
At the balance sheet date accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 93 U53441 p76-137.
qxd 3 3 08 17:59 Page 94 Financial statements continued 1.
Nature of operations and accounting policies continued y Management performance measures Cadbury Schweppes believes that underlying profit from operations, underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareowners.
These measures are used by Cadbury Schweppes management for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
As the Group has chosen to present an alternative earnings per share measure, a reconciliation of this alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in Note 13.
To meet the needs of shareowners and other external users of the financial statements, the presentation of the income statement shows clearly through the use of columns, our underlying business performance which provides more useful information on underlying trends.
The principal adjustments made to reported profit and classified as non-underlying in the income statement are summarised below: Restructuring costs the costs incurred by the Group in implementing significant restructuring projects such as Confectionery Vision into Action, the major Group-wide efficiency programme in pursuit of the mid-term margin goal, the Fuel for Growth programme and integrating acquired businesses are classified as restructuring.
These are programmes involving one-off incremental items of major expenditure.
The Group views restructuring costs as costs associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the underlying performance trends of the business: Amortisation and impairment of intangibles the Group amortises certain short-life acquisition intangibles.
In addition, the impairment of the goodwill in respect of China in 2007 and Cadbury Nigeria in 2006 has been recorded outside the underlying results.
This amortisation and impairment charge is not considered to be reflective of the underlying trading of the Group: Non-trading items whilst the gain or loss on the disposal or impairment of subsidiaries, associates, investments and fixed assets form part of the Groups operating activities, the Group does not consider them to form part of its trading activities.
The gains and losses including transaction costs incurred on these discrete items can be significant and can have a material impact on the absolute amount of, and trend in, the Group profit from operations and operating margins.
Any gains and losses on these non-trading items are therefore excluded in arriving at its underlying profit from operations: IAS 39 adjustments under IAS 39, the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting to hedge relationships principally under commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps where it is permissible, practical to do so and reduces overall volatility.
Due to the nature of its hedging arrangements, in a number of circumstances, the Group is unable to obtain hedge accounting.
The Group continues, however, to enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty of price and delivery for the commodities purchased by the Group, the exchange rates applying to the foreign currency transactions entered into by the Group and the interest rate applying to the Groups debt.
These arrangements result in fixed and determined cash flows.
The Group believes that these arrangements remain effective, economic and commercial hedges.
The effect of not applying hedge accounting under IAS 39 means that the reported profit from operations reflects the actual rate of exchange and commodity price ruling on the date of a transaction regardless of the cash flow paid by the Group at the predetermined rate of exchange and commodity price.
In addition, the movement in the fair value of open contracts in the period is recognised in the financing charge for the period.
Whilst the impacts described above could be highly volatile depending on movements in exchange rates, interest yields or commodity prices, this volatility will not be reflected in the cash flows of the Group, which will be determined by the fixed or hedged rate.
The volatility introduced as a result of not applying hedge accounting under IAS 39 has been excluded from our underlying performance measures to reflect the cash flows that occur under the Groups hedging arrangements: Exceptional items certain other items which do not reflect the Groups underlying trading performance and due to their significance and one-off nature have been classified as exceptional.
The gains and losses on these discrete items can have material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the profit from operations and result for the year.
Therefore any gains and losses on such items are analysed outside underlying and comprise: Contract termination gain in 2007 the Group received amounts in respect of the termination of a distribution agreement for the beverage brand Glacau in the US.
The gain which would otherwise have been received through distribution of the product in 2008, offset by the write-off of associated intangible assets, is excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
The balance of the settlement which would have related to 2007 has been included within the underlying results of the Group.
UK product recall in 2006 the incremental direct costs net of directly attributable insurance recoveries incurred in recalling seven Cadbury branded product lines in the UK and two in Ireland have been excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
Any impact on trading following the recall is included in underlying results.
Nigeria in 2006 the Groups share of Cadbury Nigerias adjustments to reverse the historical over-statement of financial results and position has been excluded from the underlying equity accounted share of result in associates on the grounds that these adjustments had accumulated over a period of years and were a consequence of deliberate financial irregularities.
The charge is not considered to represent the underlying trading performance of the business.
Release of disposal tax provisions in 2006, the Group reached agreement with the UK tax authorities as to the tax due in connection with the disposal in 1997 of Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages, a UK bottling business and the disposal in 1999 of the Groups beverage brands in 160 countries.
This resulted in the release of unutilised provisions totalling 51 million.
The original disposal gains, net of tax, were treated as discontinued operations and excluded from the underlying results in the relevant years.
Consistent with the previous treatment, the release of the unutilised provisions has been excluded from the underlying result: and Taxation the tax impact of the above items are also excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
In addition, from time to time the Group may carry out reorganisations in preparation for disposals or make intra-Group transfers of the legal ownership of brands and other intangible assets.
These transfers may give rise to tax gains or losses which are excluded from the underlying performance.
94 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007
