qxd 3 3 08 16:58 Page 76 Items covered in this section: Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements 76 Independent Auditors report 76 Consolidated income statement 78 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 79 Consolidated balance sheet 80 Consolidated cash flow statement 81 Segmental reporting 82 Notes to the financial statements 87 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Statement of Directors responsibilities in records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time relation to the financial statements the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, The following statement, which should be read in conjunction for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of with the auditors statement of auditors responsibilities set out fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a in their report, is made with a view to distinguishing for Directors Report and Directors remuneration report which shareowners the respective responsibilities of the Directors comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors have general responsibilities for taking such steps The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the and Accounts and Directors Remuneration Report in Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in Independent Auditors report to the members accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of Cadbury Schweppes plc IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such We have audited the Group financial statements of Cadbury financial statements for each financial year in accordance with Schweppes plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, the Companies Act comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial Statement, Segmental reporting a-e and the related notes 1 to statements present fairly for each financial period the 41.
These Group financial statements have been prepared Companys financial position, financial performance and cash under the accounting policies set out therein.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of audited the information in the Directors remuneration report transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with that is described as having been audited.
the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting We have reported separately on the parent Company financial Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the year ended presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all 31 December 2007. circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Standards.
The Directors are also required to: body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act properly select and apply accounting policies: 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might present information, including accounting policies, in a state to the Companys members those matters we are manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and required to state to them in an auditors report and for no understandable information: and other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do provide additional disclosures when compliance with the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit to understand the impact of particular transactions, other work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
76 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p76-137.
qxd 1 3 08 22:51 Page 77 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International & Accounts, the Directors remuneration report and the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement Group financial statements and the part of the Directors of Directors responsibilities.
remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and remuneration report described as having been audited has the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we information given in the Directors Report is consistent with also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Group financial statements.
The information given in the information in the Group financial statements and the part Directors report includes that specific information presented of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
elsewhere in the document that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors report.
Opinion In our opinion: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in received all the information and explanations we require for accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, our audit, or if information specified by law regarding of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the the part of the Directors remuneration report described Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report as having been audited has been properly prepared in if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the with the Group financial statements.
Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 b to the Group financial statements, We read the other information contained in the Report & the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to Accounts as described in the contents section and consider comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Accounting Standards Board.
become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and responsibilities do not extend to any further information fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups outside the Report & Accounts.
affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 4 March 2008 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 77
