qxd 3 3 08 12:25 Page 138 Items covered in this section: Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements 138 Independent Auditors report 138 Balance sheet 140 Notes to the financial statements for Cadbury Schweppes plc 141 Directors Responsibility statements The corporate governance statement and the Directors The following statement, which should be read in conjunction remuneration report are included in the Annual Report & with the auditors statement of auditors responsibilities set Accounts of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the year ended out in their report, is made with a view to distinguishing for 31 December 2007.
We have reported separately on the Group shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the year and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to as having been audited.
prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company This report is made solely to the Companys members, as as at the end of the financial year.
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might The Directors consider that in preparing the financial state to the Companys members those matters we are statements the Company has used appropriate accounting required to state to them in an auditors report and for no policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the standards which they consider to be applicable have been Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements The Directors responsibilities for preparing the parent comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United The Directors have general responsibilities for taking such steps Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Independent Auditors report to the members of Cadbury requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK Schweppes plc and Ireland.
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to Company financial statements give a true and fair view and 13.
These parent Company financial statements have been whether the parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
138 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p138-147.
qxd 1 3 08 23:00 Page 139 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report & Accounts as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report & Accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 4 March 2008 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 139
