With the demerger of the Americas Beverages business under way, our focus is now on how to take the worlds biggest confectionery business and make it into the best.
At the heart of our plans is our fewer, faster, bigger, better strategy which seeks to ensure that we aggressively exploit the strength of our confectionery platform to maintain our strong revenue momentum and deliver a step-change in our margin performance.
Well placed to deliver superior performance Confectionerys growth potential is underpinned by these We are confident that in Cadbury plc we will have the business favourable market dynamics.
We have strong brands and that can continue to deliver this superior performance because: competitive positions in the confectionery market in three the global confectionery market is growing robustly: categories: chocolate, candy and gum.
We have strong the strength and breadth of our market positions, across leadership positions in many individual markets.
different geographies and categories, should allow us to capture this growth and deliver high returns: Additionally, we have a strong presence in the faster growing the unexploited potential of our business is significant: and categories and have the largest emerging markets we have the strategy and management to deliver on our confectionery business with a 10% share, and stronger plans, and believe that Cadbury plc will benefit from the positions than all our key global competitors.
Emerging focus our management can give the business.
markets account for around a third of our total revenues.
Underpinned by confectionery market growth In summary, our growth ambitions are underpinned by our The confectionery market is growing around 5% per annum, favourable category and geographic exposure.
Indeed, if we with revenues growing in low single digits in developed markets simply held share in our various markets this should be and in double digits in emerging markets.
Strong brands, a high sufficient to generate over 5% annual growth in revenues.
level of impulse sales and limited private label penetration also Our firm intention, however, is to outperform the market by mean confectionery is a profitable market for companies with increasing our focus on the highest return areas and reducing strong brands and effective routes to market.
the complexity which is evident in many parts of our business.
Chart 7: 200206 Key Category Retail Sales Growth Vision into Action and our financial scorecard Our vision is to be the worlds biggest and best confectionery company.
We are currently the biggest, and we have an 7.0% enduring commitment to becoming the undisputed best.
6.0% Our Vision into Action business plan encapsulates how we plan 5.0% to deliver our goals by outlining key priorities growth, efficiency, capabilities and sustainability and our financial 4.0% scorecard shows the financial targets the business plan sets 3.0% out to deliver.
We give more information on each of these in the Description of Business on pages 10 to 24.
I will highlight 2.0% growth and efficiency priorities here.
1.0% 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Bakery Dairy Confectionery Snacks Ice Cream Source: Euromonitor 8 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Otherinformation From Biggest to Best... Our Vision into Action Vision Be the Worlds BIGGEST and BEST Confectionery Company Governing To Deliver Superior Shareowner Returns Objective Organic Total Mid-teens Strong Efficient Growth in Performance revenue growth confectionery trading margins dividend balance ROIC Scorecard of 4%-6% pa share gain by end 2011 growth sheet 1.
Capabilities: ensure world Priorities bigger, better on cost & efficiency class quality Prompt Ensure ethical Prioritise Reduce carbon, Nurture & Invest in Sustainability responsible & sustainable quality water use & reward communities Commitments consumption sourcing & safety packaging colleagues Culture Performance Driven, Values Led Growth Capability Our growth strategy Fewer, Faster, Bigger, Better has a Our Chairman is fond of saying business is 80% about the number of key components: people and 20% about the numbers.
We will continue to Category and geographic focus as a means of providing invest in capabilities to support our people to deliver on our scale and simplicity.
We focus our efforts on a limited growth and efficiency priorities.
number of key markets in each category those that are biggest today, or will be tomorrow.
We will continue to embed our Building Commercial Focusing on our biggest, strongest brands.
We have Capabilities programme, which aims to improve commercial thirteen brands that generate around half our total decision-making, and marketing and sales expertise by defining revenues.
In future these brands will get a higher portion a common way of marketing and selling across the business.
Leveraging strength in one category in other categories.
A Sustainability good example of this would be the launch of Trident into At the same time, we are reiterating our commitments to the UK market with our strong chocolate and candy growing sustainably to ensure that we drive change through a presence providing a base to enter the gum market.
culture which remains performance driven and values led.
Targeting customers who offer us the best potential reward which include some of our largest global Within the overriding goal of being performance driven, but customers.
values led, we aim to: promote responsible consumption of its products: There is one final component of our growth strategy.
While ensure ethical and sustainable sourcing of raw materials our main opportunity is to drive performance from better and other inputs: exploiting the inherent potential of our existing business, we prioritise quality and safety: want to supplement this with judicious acquisitions which will reduce carbon and water use, and packaging: enhance value and support our strategy.
However, our focus in nurture and reward colleagues: and 2007 has been, and in 2008 is likely to be, on integrating and invest in the communities in which it operates.
deriving full benefit from our recent acquisitions in Turkey, Romania and Japan.
Our approach to this area is discussed in detail in its Corporate and Social Responsibility Report.
Efficiency We recognise that it is not enough to grow faster: we must Delivering superior shareowner returns also be more profitable.
Our efficiency target is encapsulated Our governing objective remains delivering superior in the ambition to improve our operating profit margins from shareowner returns.
Our Vision Into Action plan gives our around 10% in 2006 to mid-teens by 2011. management team a clear roadmap and will focus the energy and efforts of our teams around the world.
We have Our cost reduction and efficiency programme is impacting all an advantaged confectionery business which has significant parts of the business: in sales, general and administration under-exploited potential both in revenue and returns.
We SG&A costs and supply chain: in the regions: and at the believe that a balanced delivery of strong growth in revenue centre.
By 2011, we expect to close around 15%.
of Cadburys and margins, coupled with an increased focus on disciplined manufacturing sites around the world and as a result to also capital allocation will allow us to deliver superior returns for reduce gross headcount.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9
