Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p76-137.
Events after the balance sheet date Subsequent to 31 December 2007 the Group completed the sale of its Monkhill business, which principally manufactures sugar confectionery and popcorn for the UK market for 58 million in cash.
The disposal group of assets were written down to recoverable value in 2007, consequently there is no gain or loss on disposal.
Changes and proposed changes to generally accepted accounting principles An amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, addresses the classification of some puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components of instruments, that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation.
This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
An amendment to IFRS 2, Share based payment, clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
As such these features would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing similar services, that is, these features would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant date.
It also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
This may have an impact on the accounting for SAYE and matching share plans for example.
IFRS 3 Revised, Business combinations, continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through income.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the minority interest.
All transaction costs will be expensed.
The standard is applicable to business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, with earlier application permitted.
This may impact the Group should the Group make material acquisitions in the future.
IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
They will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this revision on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements, will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity will be required to be shown in a performance statement but entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The revised IAS 1 also states that entities making restatements or reclassifications of comparative information will be required to present a restated balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative period in addition to the current requirement to present balance sheets at the end of the current period and comparative period.
The standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this revision on the presentation of the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
IAS 23 Revised, Borrowing costs requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
IFRIC 13 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
The Group does not currently expect this interpretation to have a material impact on its financial position, results or cash flows.
This interpretation has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19, Employee benefits on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The Group has considered IFRIC 14 when applying the current IAS 19 standard in its 2007 Report and Accounts.
Approval of financial statements The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 4 March 2008.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 137
