qxd 3 3 08 18:01 Page 88 Financial statements continued 1.
Nature of operations and accounting policies continued liabilities of associated undertakings and interests in joint ventures are incorporated into the Groups financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of the profit after interest and tax of associated undertakings and joint ventures is included as one line below profit from operations.
Investment in associated undertakings and interest in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity.
All associated undertakings have financial years that are coterminous with the Groups, with the exception of Camelot Group plc Camelot whose financial year ends in March.
The Groups share of the profits of Camelot is based on its most recent, unaudited financial statements to 30 September.
e Segmental analysis Business reportable segments Following the split of the former Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA region into two regions the Groups operational management structure has five business segments, each with its own leadership team.
These five business segments, which are the Groups primary reportable segments, are: Britain, Ireland, Middle East and Africa BIMA, Europe, Americas Confectionery, Asia Pacific and Americas Beverages.
The 2006 business segmental analysis for EMEA has been re-presented to show BIMA and Europe on a comparable basis.
Americas Confectionery, BIMA and Europe produce and distribute confectionery products in their respective geographical markets.
The Asia Pacific segment produces and distributes confectionery and beverages products in the Asia Pacific region.
Americas Beverages market, produce and distribute branded soft drinks in North America.
Confectionery comprises the segments BIMA, Europe, Americas Confectionery and Asia Pacific as well as central costs as these primarily relate to the Confectionery business.
Regional teams manage the segments as strategic business units.
They are managed separately because of the differing market conditions and consumer tastes in the different geographies, which require differing branded products and marketing strategies.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Secondary reportable segments The Group presents geographical information for the following areas: UK, US, Australia, Euro zone and Central and Southern America.
The Euro zone segment includes all countries that currently operate the Euro and whose central bank interest rates are set by the European Central Bank.
In this way all these countries have similar economic criteria, e. g. low inflation, equal interest rates and identical exchange rates with other countries.
As the Euro zone countries are all members of the European Union, they also all have similar political conditions.
The Central and Southern American countries all operate in areas of higher than average inflation and central bank interest rates.
The economies of the region are less stable than those of the developed world and have a greater than average risk of significant currency fluctuations.
Basis of allocation of costs between segments Certain central costs are considered to relate to the operating segments, for example where individuals have dual roles or services are provided by a Group function instead of external contractors, for example IT or legal services.
These costs are recharged with a suitable mark-up and settled as other trading intercompany balances.
f Foreign currencies Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations of monetary items in trading transactions are included within profit from operations whilst those arising on financing transactions are recorded within the financing line.
The functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries is the local currency in which each subsidiary is located.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the end of the financial year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings for the financial year are translated into sterling at an annual average rate, calculated using the exchange rates ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings or date of control in the case of acquisitions during the year to the rate ruling at the end of the financial year are taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
In addition, the exchange differences arising from the retranslation of overseas profit and losses from average rate to closing rate are taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
g Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales and royalties excluding inter-company sales, value added tax and sales taxes that arise as a result of the Groups sale of branded chocolate, candy and gum confectionery products and branded soft drinks.
It is stated net of trade discounts, sales incentives, up-front payments, slotting fees and other non-discretionary payments.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer, the price is fixed or determinable and collection of the amount due is reasonably assured.
A provision for sales returns is estimated on the basis of historical returns and is recorded so as to allocate these returns to the same period as the original revenue is recorded.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
88 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007
