Financial statements for Cadbury Schweppesplc continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Where assets are financed by leasing agreements and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred to the Company finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to the profit and loss account on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged wholly to the profit and loss account.
g Cash flow statement The results, assets and liabilities of the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc, which are publicly available.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised, Cash flow statements.
h Share-based payments The Company has a number of share-based payment plans that certain employees participate in.
Accounting for these is in accordance with FRS 20 and is also in accordance with the Group accounting policy in Note 1 j and the disclosures provided in Note 26 to the Group consolidated financial statements which have been prepared under IFRS 2, Share-based payment.
i Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors' best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
j Pensions The Company accounts for pensions and post-retirement benefits in accordance with FRS 17.
The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
The Company also participates in the Groups defined benefit retirement schemes.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities in the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore the Company has applied the provisions of FRS 17 to account for defined benefit schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes and recognises only the contributions payable each year.
k Revaluation of properties Prior to 1999, freehold and leasehold properties were revalued every five years.
Any overall surplus over book value was credited to the revaluation reserve and any overall deficit below historical cost was charged to the profit and loss account in the year of revaluation.
On adoption of FRS 15 in 1999 the Group decided that no further revaluations would be undertaken.
Transfers are made from the revaluation reserves to the profit and loss reserve each year in order to amortise these revaluation surpluses over the remaining useful lives of the properties.
On disposal the profit or loss is calculated by reference to the net book value at the date of disposal and any unamortised revaluation surplus is transferred from revaluation reserves to retained profits.
l Financial instruments Under UK GAAP the companys accounting policies, specifically FRS 25, Financial instruments: presentation, FRS 26, Financial instruments: measurement and FRS 29, Financial instruments: disclosures, are the same as the Groups accounting policies under IFRS: IAS 32, Financial instruments: presentation, IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: disclosures.
These policies are set out in the accounting policies Note 1 x of the Group accounts under the heading Financial instruments.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in the Groups financial statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
Profit and loss account for the year As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
Cadbury Schweppes plc reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 of 521 million 2006: profit of 322 million.
The historical cost loss for the financial year was 521 million 2006: profit of 322 million.
The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 1.0 million 2006: 0.7 million.
The auditors remuneration for non-audit services to the Company was 1.4 million 2006: 1.9 million.
Non-audit services were: other services pursuant to legislation 0.7 million 2006: 1.8 million, tax services 0.1 million 2006: 0.7 million, corporate finance services 0.4 million 2006: 0.6 million and other services 0.2 million 2006: nil.
142 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007
