S a v o y S t r e e t Carting lane t r e e t B e d f o r d S Adam St Robert St Agar St York uildings B Buck St Villiers St Charing Cross NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Notice is hereby given that the Meeting of the seventy-eighth Annual General Meeting of Company will be The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held Vaudeville Th held at the RSA, at the RSA, 8 John Adam Street, London 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ Adelphi Th WC2N 6EZ on Wednesday, 1 August on 1 August 2007 at 2007, at 11.00 am for the following 11.00 am.
RSA purposes: If you have any queries as to how to Ordinary Business vote or how to attend the meeting, please 1.
To receive and adopt the Accounts of call us on the Company for the year to 30 April 0800 027 0133.
2007 with the Reports of the Directors Baillie Gifford may and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 April 2007.
To re-elect Ms CC Ferguson as a Director.
the Daily Of cial List of the with the Statutes, but without 5.
To reappoint  London Stock Exchange prejudice to any indemnity LLP as Independent Auditors.
for the Shares for the five to which such person may 6.
To authorise the Directors to determine business days immediately otherwise be entitled, every the remuneration of the Independent preceding the date of Director, Secretary, other of cer Auditors.
purchase: and or employee of the Company shall be indemni ed out of the ii the higher of the last To consider and, if thought t, pass the assets of the Company against following resolutions as Special Resolutions: independent bid and the all costs, charges, losses, highest current independent 7.
That, in substitution for any existing expenses and liabilities incurred bid on the London Stock authority under section 166 of the by him for negligence, default, Exchange: Companies Act 1985 the Act, but breach of duty or breach of d unless previously varied, without prejudice to the exercise of trust by him in the actual or revoked or renewed by the any such authority prior to the date purported execution and or Company in general meeting, hereof, the Company be authorised, discharge of his duties and the authority hereby conferred in accordance with section 166 of the or the exercise or purported shall expire at the conclusion Act, to make market purchases within exercise of his powers and or of the Annual General Meeting the meaning of section 163 3 of the otherwise in relation to or in of the Company to be held in Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in connection with his duties, respect of the year ending 30 the capital of the Company Shares, powers or of ce.
The indemnity April 2008 or on 31 December provided that: shall not apply to the extent that 2008, whichever is the earlier, the of cer or employee recovers a the maximum aggregate number save that the Company may, from another person.
of Shares hereby authorised to prior to such expiry, enter into be purchased shall be 14.99% 166B.
Subject to the provisions of and a contract to purchase Shares of the issued ordinary share under such authority which so far as may be consistent capital on the date on which with the Statutes, but without will or might be completed or this resolution is passed: executed wholly or partly after prejudice to any indemnity to which such person may b the minimum price which may the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of otherwise be entitled, every be paid for a Share shall be 5p auditor of the Company shall be exclusive of expenses : Shares pursuant to any such contract.
entitled to be indemni ed out c the maximum price exclusive of of the assets of the Company expenses which may be paid Special Business against all costs, charges, for a Share shall not be more losses, expenses and liabilities 8.
That the Articles of Association of the than the higher of: incurred by him in the actual Company be and hereby are amended i 105 per cent of the average or purported execution and or by the deletion of Article 166 and the discharge of his duties and of the middle market replacement thereof with the following: quotations as derived from or the exercise or purported 166A.
Subject to the provisions of and exercise of his powers and or so far as may be consistent 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 William IV St E C A L Chandos Place P Y Ho St Adelphi Ter O Maiden Lane T R A N D S m A V s S en rd t Ga s en m John Adam Street bank ia Em Victor e m a a h T E m b an k m e n t r e v i R h r Du NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING meeting, shall be disregarded in determining otherwise in relation to or in Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the the rights of any person to attend or vote at connection with his duties, the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions meeting is entitled to appoint one or more powers or of ce including proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his in any enactment, the Articles of Association without prejudice to the of the Company or other instrument to the her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of generality of the foregoing the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of contrary.
any liability incurred by him in members is enclosed and to be valid must be 3.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie defending any proceedings, lodged with the Registrars of the Company Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens civil or criminal, which relate not later than 48 hours before the time set for Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment to anything done or omitted or the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
The Trust ISA PEP who wish to vote and or alleged to have been done or appointment of a proxy will not prevent a attend the meeting must complete and return omitted by him as the auditor member from subsequently attending and the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
of the Company and in which voting at the meeting in person.
No Director has a contract of service with the decree or judgment is given in 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Company.
his favour or the proceedings Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, 5.
Copies of the existing Articles of Association the Company speci es that only those are otherwise disposed of of the Company and the proposed revised shareholders entered on the Register of without any nding or admission Articles of Association will be available for Members of the Company as at 11.00 am of material breach of duty on his inspection during normal business hours on on 30 July 2007 or, in the event that the part or in which he is acquitted any day Saturdays, Sundays and public meeting is adjourned, on the Register of or in connection with any holidays excepted until the close of the Members 48 hours before the time of any application under any statute Annual General Meeting at the registered adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend of ce of the Company and at the of ces of for relief from liability in respect or vote at the meeting in respect of the Baillie Gifford & Co.
Copies of the proposed of any such act or omission in number of ordinary shares registered in their revised Articles of Association will also be which relief is granted to him name at that time.
Changes to the entries on available for inspection at the place of the by the court.
The indemnity shall the Register of Members after 11.00 am on Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes not apply to the extent that the 30 July 2007 or, in the event that the meeting before and during the meeting.
is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 auditor recovers from another hours before the time of any adjourned person.
By order of the Board Baillie Gifford & Co Managers and Secretaries 29 June 2007 THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 43
