DIRECTORS REPORT AND STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES is given against him.
The indemnity would Creditor Payment Policy Independent Auditors also not apply to any liability to the extent It is the Companys payment policy to obtain Resolutions to reappoint that it is recovered from another person.
the best terms for all business.
In general,  LLP as independent Resolution 8, as set out in the Notice of the Company agrees with its suppliers the auditors to the Company and to authorise Annual General Meeting, will be proposed terms on which business will take place and the Directors to determine their remuneration to amend the Companys Articles of it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The will be proposed at the AGM.
Association to re ect these changes and Company had no trade creditors at either widen the indemnity which the Directors and 30 April 2006 or 30 April 2007.
Recommendation other of cers of the Company are entitled to The Directors unanimously recommend you receive from the Company.
Disclosure of Information to to vote in favour of the resolutions to be Auditors Copies of the proposed revised Articles of proposed at the Annual General Meeting as Association will be available for inspection The Directors con rm that so far as each of it is their view that the resolutions are in the during normal business hours on any day the Directors is aware there is no relevant best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays audit information of which the Companys By order of the Board excepted until the close of the Annual auditors are unaware and the Directors have Baillie Gifford & Co General Meeting at the registered of ce of taken all the steps that they might reasonably Managers and Secretaries the Company and at the of ces of Baillie be expected to have taken as Directors in 13 June 2007 Gifford & Co.
Copies of the proposed order to make themselves aware of any revised Articles of Association will also be relevant audit information and to establish available for inspection at the place of the that the Companys auditors are aware of Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes that information.
before and during the meeting.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing In preparing those financial statements, the The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report and the financial Directors are required to: proper accounting records which disclose statements in accordance with applicable with reasonable accuracy at any time the select suitable accounting policies and law and regulations.
financial position of the Company and to then apply them consistently: enable them to ensure that the financial Company law requires the Directors to make judgements and estimates that are statements comply with the Companies Act prepare financial statements for each reasonable and prudent: 1985.
They have general responsibility financial year.
Under that law they have for taking such steps as are reasonably elected to prepare the financial statements in state whether applicable UK accounting open to them to safeguard the assets of the accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
standards have been followed, subject Company and to prevent and detect fraud to any material departures disclosed and The financial statements are required by law and other irregularities.
explained in the financial statements: and to give a true and fair view of the state of Under applicable law and regulations, the affairs of the Company and of the pro t or prepare the financial statements on Directors are also responsible for preparing loss of the Company for that period.
the going concern basis unless it is a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration inappropriate to presume that the Report and Corporate Governance Company will continue in business.
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23
