NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting The fair value of unlisted investments uses are allocated to the revenue account at a policies, which are unchanged from valuation techniques, determined by the constant rate on the carrying amount.
Issue the prior year and have been applied Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, costs are written off at a constant rate over consistently, are set out below.
stockbroker valuations, net asset values and the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses other information, as appropriate.
on the repurchase or early settlement of debt a Basis of Accounting is wholly charged to capital.
c Income The accounts are prepared under the f Deferred Taxation historical cost convention, modi ed to i Income from equity investments, is include the revaluation of xed asset brought into account on the date on Deferred taxation is provided at the investments, and on the assumption that which the investments are quoted excurrent rate of corporation tax on all timing approval as an investment trust will continue dividend or, where no ex-dividend date differences which have originated but to be granted.
is quoted, when the Companys right to not reversed by the balance sheet date, receive payment is established.
Equity calculated at the current tax rate relevant to The accounts have been prepared in investment income includes distributions the bene t or liability.
Deferred tax assets accordance with The Companies Act from Collective Investment Schemes other are recognised only to the extent that it 1985, applicable UK accounting standards than those that relate to equalisation, is more likely than not that there will be and with the Statement of Recommended which are treated as capital items.
taxable pro ts from which underlying timing Practice Financial Statements of Investment differences can be deducted.
Trust Companies issued in January 2003, ii Interest from xed interest securities g Foreign Currencies revised in 2005. including the zero coupon element of the swap rate linked note is recognised Transactions involving foreign currencies are In order to better re ect the activities of on an effective yield basis.
converted at the rate ruling at the time of the the trust and in accordance with guidance transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign issued by the AIC, supplementary iii Unfranked investment income includes currencies are translated at the closing rates information which analyses the pro t and the taxes deducted at source.
of exchange at the balance sheet date with loss account between items of a revenue iv Franked investment income is stated net the exception of forward foreign exchange and capital nature has been presented in of tax credits.
contracts which are valued at the forward the Income Statement.
rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any v Underwriting commission and interest Financial assets and financial liabilities are gain or loss arising from a change in receivable on deposits are recognised recognised in the Companys balance sheet exchange rate subsequent to the date of the on an accruals basis.
when it becomes a party to the contractual transaction is included as an exchange gain provisions of the instrument.
or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends as appropriate.
in cash, the net amount of the cash The Directors consider the Companys dividend declared is credited to the h Capital Reserves functional currency to be sterling as the revenue account.
Any excess in the Companys shareholders are predominantly i Capital Reserves Realised: value of the shares received over the based in the UK and the Company is Gains and losses on realisation of amount of the cash dividend foregone subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
investments and realised exchange is recognised as capital.
differences of a capital nature are dealt b Investments d Expenses with in this reserve.
Purchases of the Purchases and sales of investments are Companys own shares for cancellation All expenses are accounted for on an accounted for on a trade date basis.
are also funded from this reserve.
accruals basis and are charged through the Investments are valued at fair value through revenue account except where they relate pro t or loss.
ii Capital Reserves Unrealised: directly to the acquisition or disposal of an Unrealised appreciation depreciation The fair value of listed investments is investment, in which case they are added to represents the amount by which the bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 the cost of the investment or deducted from market value of assets and liabilities constituents, at last traded prices issued by the sale proceeds.
differs from their book value and is dealt the London Stock Exchange.
e Long Term Borrowings and Finance with in this reserve.
Listed investments include Open Ended Costs Investment Companies OEICs authorised Long term borrowings are carried in the in the UK: these are valued at closing prices balance sheet at the cumulative amount of net and are classi ed in the list of investments proceeds after issue, plus accrued finance according to the principal geographical costs.
The finance costs of such borrowings area of the underlying holdings.
