NOTES TO ACCOUNTS The Companys financial instruments, which Credit Risk 19 Contingent Liabilities, provide finance for investment activities, In addition to interest rate risk, the Guarantees and Financial currently comprise its debenture stocks, Companys investments in bonds are also Commitments long term borrowings, cash and liquid subject to credit risk.
Credit risk re ects At 30 April 2007 the Company had resources.
In addition to the equity portfolio, the possibility that a borrower will not contingent liabilities of 13,500,000 the Company maintains investments in UK be able to meet its obligation to make 2006 13,500,000 in respect of and overseas corporate bonds as part of its payments of interest or principal when they a subscription agreement relating to investment strategy.
The Managers analyse the credit participating loan notes which expire on risk of the Companys bond investments The Company may, from time to time, enter 31 December 2010. prior to purchase and continue to monitor into derivative transactions to hedge speci c developments in credit quality subsequently.
currency or interest rate risk.
20 Directors Interests in Contracts Liquidity Risk The Company has precisely fide ned No Director has a contract of service with The Companys policy with regard to guidelines to govern the purchase or writing the Company.
liquidity is to ensure continuity of funding.
of options on individual shares.
No options Short term exibility is achieved by overdraft were purchased or written in the year under During the year no Director was interested facilities.
in any contract or other matter requiring disclosure under section 232 of the The Companys assets comprise mainly Trading in financial instruments is not within Companies Act 1985. readily realisable securities which can be the normal activities of an investment trust, sold freely to meet funding commitments if nor is it the Companys policy to trade in necessary.
21 Derivatives and Other Financial such instruments.
Transactions in financial instruments generally arise as a result of Instruments Foreign Currency Risk strategic investment decisions.
The international nature of the Companys The Company operates as an investment investment activities gives rise to a currency The Companys Managers may not enter trust in accordance with section 842 of risk which is inherent in the performance into derivative transactions without the prior the Income and Corporation Taxes Act of its overseas investments.
It is not the approval of the Board, and all borrowing 1988.
As such, the Company is exempt Companys policy to hedge this risk on a facilities require Board authorisation.
The from capital gains tax on the sale of continuing basis, but the Company may Board agrees policies for managing risk its investments.
The Managers monitor from time to time match speci c overseas with the Companys Managers.
The main investment movements, the level of forecast investment with foreign currency borrowings.
risks arising from the Companys financial income and expenditure and the amount instruments are market risk, interest rate risk, of proposed dividends to ensure that the During the year the Company entered into credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency provisions of section 842 are not breached.
forward currency contracts the purpose risk.
The international nature of the Companys of which is to match the currency of its investment activities provides opportunities borrowings to the currency of its assets.
The Market Risk for both market appreciation and currency Company realised a loss of 2,498,000 The Company is exposed to market risk gains, but leaves it exposed to the risk of on such contracts during the year and at due to uctuations in the market prices of market volatility and currency uctuations.
30 April 2007 has an unrealised gain its investments.
The Companys Managers of 87,000 in respect of open forward In the case of an investment trust, capital actively monitor market and economic data currency contracts.
pro ts from investing activities and currency and report to the Board, which considers gains are prohibited from being distributed investment policy on a regular basis.
The revenue account is subject to currency in the form of dividends.
uctuation arising on overseas income.
The Interest Rate Risk Company does not hedge this currency risk.
The Company has long term borrowings, The Company nances its operations by detailed in note 12, the aim of which means of equity shareholders funds, bank is to achieve improved performance in borrowings and the issue of debenture rising markets.
Further information on the stocks.
The value of the Companys bond Companys gearing policy is given in the portfolio is subject to interest rate risk.
not the Companys policy to hedge this risk.
The Companys income may be affected The Company has issued xed interest by uctuations in short term interest rates: debenture stocks.
income from overseas investment can be affected by currency uctuations.
