Glossary of Terms and Definitions Price Earnings Ratio Actual Gearing The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price Total Assets as below less all cash divided by shareholders per share by the earnings per share.
no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit Asset Cover growth potential.
The value of a companys net assets available to repay a certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a Prior Charges multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available The name given to all borrowings including debentures, long by the amount required to repay the specific security.
term loans and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency B Ordinary Shares loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn B Ordinary shares carry the same rights as the Ordinary down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or shares.
The difference is that B Ordinary Shareholders receive preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, their dividends by means of a capitalisation issue as opposed irrespective of the time until repayment.
With effect from the payment of the final dividend in 2007, the capitalisation issue received by B Total Assets Ordinary Shareholders will be made every time a dividend is Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior paid on the Ordinary shares.
B Ordinary Shareholders also charges as defined above.
have the right to convert their shares into Ordinary shares once a year.
More details regarding this are shown on page Total Expense Ratio 62.
Ratio of expenses as percentage of average shareholders funds calculated as per the industry standard Lipper Fitzrovia Discount method.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
Total Return The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the net asset value per share.
month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the Dividend Cover trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed quarter end, half year or year end date.
Winding-Up Entitlements Dividend Yield On a winding up of the Company, any surplus assets The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share available after payment of all debts and satisfaction of all price.
liabilities of the Company shall be applied in repaying the Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders the amounts paid up Net Asset Value on such shares.
Any surplus shall be divided among the The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this holders of Ordinary and B Ordinary shares pari passu purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net according to the amount paid up on such shares respectively.
asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces the net asset value per share.
Voting Rights In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Potential Gearing Company, on a show of hands, every member or duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting of the Total Assets including all debt being used for investment Company has one vote: and, on a poll, every member present purposes divided by shareholders funds.
in person or by proxy shall have 89 votes for every 25p nominal amount of Ordinary or B Ordinary shares held.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
