NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OFFICES LONDON New Star Asset Management Group PLC 1 Knightsbridge Green London SW1X 7NE www.
com Tel: 020 7225 9200 Fax: 020 7225 9300 BERMUDA New Star Asset Management Bermuda Limited New Star International Investment Products Limited 31 Queen Street 3rd Floor, Boyle Building PO Box HM1871 Hamilton HM HX Bermuda www.
com Tel: 001 441 295 9295 Fax: 001 441 295 9221 IRELAND New Star Investment Funds Ireland Limited New Star Asset Management Services Limited Fleming Court Fleming Place Dublin 4 Ireland www.
com Tel: 00 353 1 4758000 Fax: 00 353 1 4758005 HONG KONG New Star International Investment Products Asia Limited Suite 1502 York House, The Landmark 15 Queens Road Central Hong Kong www.
com Tel: 00 852 2521 4900 Fax: 00 852 2521 4990 77 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC OFFICES continued SPAIN New Star Investment Funds Ireland Limited Oficinade Representacion en Espana Pinar 5, 28006 Madrid Spain www.
com Tel: 00 34 91 745 5906 Fax: 00 34 91 745 6699 SWITZERLAND New Star Asset Management Bermuda Limited, Zurich Branch Stampfenbachstrasse 7, 8001 Zrich www.
com Tel: 41 44 287 38 00 Fax: 41 44 287 38 01 ITALY New Star Investment Funds Ireland Ufficio Di Rappresenlanza Milano Via Monte Di Pieta 21 20121 Milano www.
com Tel: 00 390 286 337 539 Fax: 00 390 286 337 400 78 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so he or she can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
NOTICE is hereby given that the first Annual General Meeting of New Star Asset Management Group PLC the Company will be held at 1 Knightsbridge Green, London SW1X 7NE on Thursday 15 May 2008 at 12 noon on the 7th Floor.
You will be asked to consider and pass the resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 16 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 17 to 20 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the auditors report thereon.
To declare a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share on the ordinary shares of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To elect John Duffield as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect Michael Astor as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect Howard Covington as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect John Craig as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect David Gamble as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect John Jay as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect Richard Pease as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect Rupert Ruvigny as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
79 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued 12.
To elect Mark Skinner as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect Martin Smith as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To elect John Tiner as a director of the Company who, having been appointed by the Board, would in accordance with the Companys articles of association vacate office at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting unless elected.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the meeting and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
THAT in substitution for any existing general authority granted to the directors of the Company pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the directors of the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 19,896,352, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless and to the extent previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting or, if earlier, on 14 August 2009 provided that the Company may before such expiry make offers or enter into agreements which would or might require relevant securities as so defined to be allotted after this authority expires and the directors of the Company may allot relevant securities as so defined in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 16 above, the directors of the Company be given power pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 16 above as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, such power to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless and to the extent previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting or, if earlier, on 14 August 2009 provided that the Company may before such expiry make offers or enter into agreements which would or might require equity securities as so defined to be allotted after this power expires and the directors of the Company may allot equity securities as so defined in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
The power granted by this resolution shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue of those securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the directors of the Company, whether by way of rights issue, open offer or otherwise, in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date save in relation to fractional entitlements and subject to such exclusions and other arrangements as the directors of the Company deem necessary or expedient to deal with either legal problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b the allotment other than pursuant to a above of equity securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,987,440.
80 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued 18.
THAT in substitution for the authority granted to the Company for the purposes of section 163 3 of the Act on 18 April 2007, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company upon such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company shall determine, subject to the following restrictions and provisions: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased pursuant to the authority granted by this resolution shall be 35,013,770: b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to the nominal value of an ordinary share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share cannot be more than an amount equal to the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the closing middle market price for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately prior to the day the purchase is made: and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC No 273 2003 the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation : d unless previously revoked or varied, this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 14 August 2009: and e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares before the expiry of this authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
THAT each of the 50,000 redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each in the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company be and is hereby sub-divided and reclassified such that, following such subdivision and reclassification, each such redeemable preference share of 1.00 each shall be represented by four ordinary shares of 25 pence each, such ordinary shares to rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of 25 pence each forming part of the share capital of the Company.
THAT the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
By order of the Board John Mould Secretary Dated: 11 April 2008 Registered office: 1 Knightsbridge Green London SW1X 7NE Registered in England and Wales, No: 6047952 81 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued NOTES 1.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise on their behalf all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Capita Registrars Proxies, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU no later than 12 noon on 13 May 2008.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6 p. m. on 13 May 2008 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6 p. m. on the date that is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
At 18 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 233,580,859 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company at 18 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice is 233,580,859.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
82 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications of Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on 13 May 2008.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
The following documentation, which is available for inspection during business hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday public holidays excluded until the close of the meeting, will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 9.30 a. m. on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of all service contracts and contracts of appointment between the directors and the Company: b printed copies of this Notice and the annual report of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007: and c copy of the articles of association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by resolution 20.
83 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued EXPLANATION OF BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notes on the following pages give an explanation of the proposed resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 16 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 17 to 20 inclusive are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Those members of your Board who hold shares will be voting in favour of them and your Board unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Resolution 1 accounts and reports Company law requires the directors to present to the meeting these accounts and reports, copies of which are contained in the Annual Report in which this Notice is incorporated.
Resolution 2 directors remuneration report This resolution proposes that the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2007 be approved by the meeting.
The report is set out in pages 31 to 34 in the Annual Report in which this Notice is incorporated.
Resolution 3 declare a dividend This resolution proposes to declare a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share on the ordinary shares of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Resolutions 4 to 14 election of directors The Companys Articles of Association require any director appointed by the Board to retire at the first Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment.
Accordingly, each director having been appointed by the Board and not by the shareholders in general meeting offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr Tiner was appointed by the Board and not by the shareholders in general meeting prior to the date of this notice of Annual General Meeting but after 19 March 2008.
John Duffield, Howard Covington, Rupert Ruvigny, Michael Astor, John Jay, Richard Pease and Mark Skinner are standing for election as executive directors.
John Craig, David Gamble, Martin Smith and John Tiner are standing for election as non-executive directors.
Biographical details of all the directors standing for election other than John Tiner appear on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Report in which this Notice is incorporated.
Biographical details of John Tiner appear under the heading Board Appointment on page 8 of the Annual Report in which this Notice is incorporated.
The Board recommends that you support the election of each of the directors standing for election as each individuals performance continues to be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Resolution 15 re-appointment of auditors The Company must appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders to hold office until the conclusion of the next such meeting.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors and seeks authority for the Companys directors to fix their remuneration.
84 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued Resolution 16 authority to allot shares Under section 80 Companies Act 1985, the directors are prevented, subject to certain exceptions, from allotting relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in general meeting.
Relevant securities are defined in the Companies Act 1985 to include the Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares.
This resolution is proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise the directors to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 19,896,352 representing approximately 33.3% of the share capital of the Company in issue at 18 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice assuming for this purpose full exercise of all outstanding options at that date.
The directors authority will expire on the earlier of 14 August 2009 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority.
At 18 March 2008 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Company did not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Resolution 17 disapplication of pre-emption rights Under section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, when new shares are allotted, they must first be offered to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
This special resolution renews, for the period ending on 14 August 2009 or, if earlier, the date of the next Annual General Meeting, the authorities previously granted to the directors to: a allot shares of the Company in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer: and b otherwise allot shares of the Company up to a maximum nominal value of 2,987,440 representing approximately 5% of the share capital of the Company in issue at 18 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice assuming for this purpose full exercise of all outstanding options at that date as if the pre-emption rights of section 89 did not apply.
In addition, the resolution permits the directors to deal with fractional entitlements and any legal or regulatory problems arising in any territory on any offer of new shares to be made to shareholders on a pro rata basis.
The directors believe that it is in the best interests of the Company for the Board to have limited power to issue new shares for cash without first having to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 18 power for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares This resolution which is being proposed as a special resolution renews the directors current authority to make limited market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited to a maximum aggregate number of 35,013,770 ordinary shares representing 14.99% of the share capital of the Company in issue at 18 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice and details the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of expenses.
This resolution authorises the Company to pay a maximum price for an ordinary share that is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average middle market price for an ordinary share for the five dealing days preceding any such purchase and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC No 2273 2003 the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation, being the higher of the last independent trade for an ordinary share or the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The authority conferred by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or 14 August 2009, whichever is the earlier.
Any shares repurchased by the Company under the renewed authority may be cancelled.
There is currently no intention to hold such shares in treasury.
The Company did not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury at 18 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
85 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued The directors have no present intention of exercising on behalf of the Company the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The directors would only cause the Company to purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect would be to result in an increase in earnings per share and would benefit shareholders generally.
The directors are making no recommendation as to whether shareholders should sell their shares in the Company.
At 18 March 2008, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, there were options outstanding over 5,414,365 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent approximately 2.32% of the share capital of the Company in issue at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, the shares issued pursuant to these options would represent approximately 2.73% of the Companys issued share capital.
Resolution 19 sub-division and reclassification of redeemable preference shares On 21 December 2007, each of the 50,000 redeemable preferences shares of 1.00 each in the share capital of the Company then in issue the Redeemable Preference Shares were redeemed.
These shares, although no longer in issue, combine to form part of the authorised share capital of the Company.
The directors have no intention of re-issuing the Redeemable Preference Shares.
Accordingly, the opportunity is being taken to sub-divide and reclassify each of the Redeemable Preference Shares into four ordinary shares of 25 pence each, such ordinary shares to rank pari passu with the existing ordinary shares of 25 pence each forming part of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company.
Resolution 20 amendment to the articles of association of the Company It is proposed in resolution 20 to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
Further provisions of the Companies Act 2006 are expected to be brought into effect in 2009 and we therefore expect that further amendments to the Companys articles of association will be required at the Annual General Meeting in 2009 and possibly even in 2010.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in the subsequent section of this Notice entitled Explanatory Notes Of Principal Changes To The Companys Articles Of Association.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 83 of this document.
86 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 1.
Articles that duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles that replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are, in the main, to be removed in the New Articles.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights and the requirement to keep accounting records.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being removed and certain other provisions amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
Variation of class rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant provisions have therefore been amended in the New Articles.
Convening extraordinary and Annual General Meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular, a general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 clear days notice whereas previously 21 clear days notice was required.
Annual General Meetings still must be called on at least 21 clear days notice save as permitted or provided by statute.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect all these provisions.
Conflicts of interest It is currently anticipated that on 1 October 2008 new provisions in the Companies Act 2006 will come into force relating to conflicts of interest that a director may have with respect to the Company.
In anticipation of these changes to the legislation, the New Articles include new provisions dealing with the new statutory regime for directors conflicts of interest.
These new provisions will only apply from 1 October 2008, or such later date as the relevant Companies Act 2006 provisions come into force.
In the intervening period the existing provisions in the Current Articles relating to directors conflicts of interest will continue to apply.
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties that largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Once the relevant statutory provisions of the Companies Act 2006 come into force, the New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in an appropriate manner.
87 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
Records to be kept The provision in the Current Articles requiring the Board to keep accounting records has been removed as this requirement is contained in the Companies Act 2006.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
This is reflected in the New Articles.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and also applies to subsidiary companies.
Redeemable Preference Shares On 21 December 2007, the Company redeemed each of the 50,000 redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each in the capital of the Company then in issue.
The opportunity is therefore being taken to remove the references to redeemable preference shares from the articles of association.
As noted above, it is proposed that each of the redeemable preference shares be sub-divided and reclassified as four ordinary shares of 25 pence each, each such ordinary share to rank pari passu with the existing ordinary shares.
General Generally, the opportunity has been taken to introduce clearer language into the New Articles.
Please mark X to indicate how you wish to vote.
# Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made # For the appointment of more than one proxy please refer to Explanatory Note 2.
RESOLUTIONS Vote For Against Withheld 1.
To receive the accounts and the report of the directors and auditors thereon for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To elect John Duffield as a director of the Company.
To elect Michael Astor as a director of the Company.
To elect Howard Covington as a director of the Company.
To elect John Craig as a director of the Company.
To elect David Gamble as a director of the Company.
To elect John Jay as a director of the Company.
To elect Richard Pease as a director of the Company.
To elect Rupert Ruvigny as a director of the Company.
To elect Mark Skinner as a director of the Company.
To elect Martin Smith as a director of the Company.
To elect John Tiner as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
To grant the directors authority to allot relevant securities pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
To disapply statutory pre-emption rights.
To grant the directors authority to make market purchases of shares.
To sub-divide and reclassify the redeemable preference shares.
To adopt new articles of association.
All holders have the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder, as their proxy to exercise all or any of their rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which he or she is authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
The Vote Withheld option is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
It should be noted, however, that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes For and Against a resolution.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes that may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on the day that is two days before the day of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Please indicate by inserting X in the appropriate box how the proxy is to vote.
Unless so instructed, the proxy will at his her discretion vote as he she thinks fit or abstain from voting.
To be valid, this form of proxy must be lodged with Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not later than 12 noon on 13 May 2008.
A body corporate should execute this instrument under its common seal or under the hand of an officer, attorney or a duly authorised officer of the body corporation.
If the proxy form is signed by someone else on your behalf, his or her authority to sign must be returned with the proxy form.
In the case of joint holdings, the vote of the senior joint holder shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should they subsequently decide to do so.
91 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC RECENT AWARDS PROFESSIONAL ADVISER AWARDS 2008 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT Best Multi-Manager Group LIPPER FUND AWARDS UK 2008 NEW STAR GLOBAL FINANCIALS FUND Best fund over three years Equity Sector Banks and Other Financials NEW STAR GLOBAL FINANCIALS FUND Best fund over five years Equity Sector Banks and Other Financials NEW STAR UK STRATEGIC INCOME UNIT TRUST Best fund over five years Equity UK Income NEW STAR PACIFIC GROWTH UNIT TRUST Best fund over ten years Equity Asia Pacific Ex Japan NEW STAR ACTIVE PORTFOLIO Best fund over ten years Equity Global LIPPER FUND AWARDS HONG KONG 2008 NEW STAR UK DYNAMIC FUND Best fund over five years Equity UK LIPPER FUND AWARDS NETHERLANDS 2008 NEW STAR GIF UK DYNAMIC FUND Best fund over five years Equity UK LIPPER FUND AWARDS UK 2007 NEW STAR EXTRA HIGH YIELD BOND UNIT TRUST Best Fund over three years Bond Global High Yield NEW STAR FIXED INTEREST UNIT TRUST Best Fund over three years Bond Pound Sterling Corporates NEW STAR STERLING BOND UNIT TRUST Best Fund over ten years Bond Pound Sterling Corporates NEW STAR PACIFIC GROWTH UNIT TRUST Best Fund over ten years Equity Asia Pacific Ex Japan NEW STAR GLOBAL FINANCIALS FUND Best Fund over five years Equity Sector Banks and Other Financials NEW STAR GLOBAL FINANCIALS FUND Best Fund over three years Equity Sector Banks and Other Financials NEW STAR UK STRATEGIC INCOME UNIT TRUST Best Fund over three years Equity UK Income 92 1717cp 03.08
