COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Net cash inflow from operating activities Note m m Loss profit before taxation 165.6 614.1 Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortisation 28.3 29.7 Impairment charges on property, plant and equipment 27 56.3 Impairment charges on intangible assets 26 7.0 Impairment charges on loans and advances 10 239.7 81.0 Impairment charges on unsecured investment loans 10 232.2 Income taxes paid 68.6 112.0 Fair value adjustments on financial instruments 573.7 199.5 Other non cash movements 151.1 56.0 Net cash outflow inflow from operating losses profits before changes in operating assets and liabilities 395.5 756.3 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Net decrease increase in deposits held for regulatory or monetary control purposes 11.4 22.6 Net increase in loans and advances 11,878.5 17,049.8 Net increase in derivative financial instruments receivable 247.5 21.3 Net decrease in other assets 75.8 82.9 Net decrease increase in debt securities in issue 5,390.0 3,340.0 Net increase in loans from central bank 28 28,473.0 Net decrease increase in deposits from other banks 2,986.8 740.6 Net decrease increase in amounts due to customers 7,312.8 13,733.7 Net decrease increase in derivative financial instruments payable 224.1 659.4 Net decrease increase in other liabilities 102.5 77.7 Net increase in accruals and deferred income 28.7 138.5 Net cash inflow from operating activities 51.2 2,435.4 Net cash outflow from investing activities Net investment in intangible assets 32.7 22.4 Net investment in property, plant and equipment 51.0 36.6 Purchase of investment securities 8,472.5 3,504.1 Proceeds from sale and redemption of investment securities 3,624.4 2,010.0 4,931.8 1,553.1 Net cash inflow from financing activities Issue of subordinated liabilities 328.1 Issue of preference shares 396.5 Ordinary dividend paid 15 105.0 132.3 Preference dividend paid 15 27.8 Appropriations including tax of 19.4m, 2006 20.8m 63.9 69.3 131.4 194.9 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 4,749.2 1,077.2 Opening cash and cash equivalents 5,903.2 4,826.0 Closing cash and cash equivalents 44 1,154.0 5,903.2 52 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
Basis of preparation Principles underlying going concern assumption The announcement by a major US investment bank of difficulties in one of its investment conduits and subsequent similar announcements by other banks led to serious disruption of medium term funding markets on 9 August 2007.
This quickly led to severe restrictions in the liquidity of the short term wholesale markets.
Despite these restrictions during August and early September 2007 Northern Rock continued to fund in the short dated wholesale markets and maintained significant balances of liquid assets.
During this period the Company together with its advisers sought to find a solution to likely funding difficulties should the markets not recover.
In the week commencing 10 September 2007, despite the fact that the Company continued to raise funds at shorter durations, the general tightening of longer term liquidity and the closure of the securitisation and medium term markets meant it was necessary to arrange a facility in case such markets failed to reopen.
Therefore the Company approached the Bank of England for a loan facility.
On 14 September 2007, the Chancellor of the Exchequer authorised the Bank of England to provide a loan facility to Northern Rock against appropriate collateral and at an interest rate premium.
In the days that followed the grant of the Bank of England loan facility there were significant withdrawals by Northern Rocks retail depositors.
This, together with the impact of maturing wholesale funding, contributed to Northern Rock having to draw on the Bank of England facility.
On 17 September 2007, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that, should it be necessary, arrangements would be put in place to guarantee all existing deposits in Northern Rock during the current instability in the financial markets, which significantly slowed the level of customer withdrawals.
The guarantee arrangements were clarified and extended by HMTreasury on 20 and 21 September, 9 October and 18 December 2007 to include all unsecured retail products, all uncollateralised and unsubordinated wholesale deposits and wholesale borrowings, all payment obligations under any uncollateralised derivative transactions and all obligations of the Company to make payments on the repurchase of mortgages under the documentation for the Granite securitisation programme.
On 11 October 2007, HM Treasury announced that the Bank of England had made additional facilities available to the Company to enable it to continue to pursue the full range of strategic options open to it.
Further details of these facilities are given in note 28 below.
On 21 February 2008, the Banking Special Provisions Bill received Royal Assent.
This bill enabled Northern Rock to be brought into temporary public ownership which was effected on 22 February 2008.
On 29 March 2008, the Bank of England and HM Treasury confirmed that they intend to make arrangements to provide an additional committed secured revolving loan reserve facility in addition to the existing on demand facilities.
In addition, the Bank of England and HM Treasury have confirmed to the Company and its Directors that it is their current intention to continue to fund the Company so as to maintain the Company as a going concern to enable it to meet its debts as and when they fall due for a period of not less than twelve months.
All of the facilities referred to above and the statement of current intentions are subject to appropriate clearance being obtained from the European Commission for State aid for the Company and any other constraints imposed by European legislation.
Consent was obtained from the European Commission for the provision of support for the six months from 17 September 2007 under European State aid law.
A further submission to the European Commission in relation to longer term restructuring proposals was made on 17 March 2008 and the existing arrangements are expected to be maintained while the submission is considered.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The validity of this assumption depends on the Bank of England and HM Treasury continuing to provide support and facilities and the European Commission approving the financing facilities provided.
If approval is not received it is likely the Company would then submit a solvent wind down plan for European Commission State aid approval.
If this were not forthcoming the financing facilities may be withdrawn in which case the Company may not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company may then have to take appropriate insolvency proceedings and cease to trade as a going concern, and adjustments may have to be made to reduce the monetary value of assets to recoverable amounts, to provide for further liabilities that might arise and reclassify all assets and liabilities as current assets and liabilities.
Principal accounting policies a Accounting convention These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale investments, financial assets and liabilities held at fair value.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The Directors consider the business to comprise one operating and geographical segment due to the similarity of risks faced within its UK based residential, commercial and unsecured lending portfolios.
b Basis of consolidation The financial information of the Group incorporates the assets, liabilities, and results of Northern Rock plc and its subsidiary undertakings including Special Purpose Entities.
Entities are regarded as subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
Inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated upon consolidation.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the purchase of subsidiaries which are held at cost.
c Interest income and expense Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability, and allocates the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument for example prepayment options but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts received or paid by the Group that are an integral part of the overall return, direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument and all other premiums and discounts.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
d Fees and commissions Where they are not included in the effective interest calculation, fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accruals basis when the service has been provided.
Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred together with related incremental direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan.
Insurance commissions are recognised in the period in which they are earned.
53 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued e Financial instruments Financial assets can be classified in the following categories: loans and receivables, available for sale, held to maturity or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group measures all of its financial liabilities at amortised cost, other than those instruments which have been designated as part of a hedging relationship see below.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held to maturity and available for sale are recognised on trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
i Loans and receivables and financial liabilities at amortised cost The Groups loans and advances to banks and customers, unsecured investment loans including certain investment securities, and investments in Structured Investment Vehicles SIVs are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, whose recoverability is based solely on the credit risk of the customer and where the Group has no intention of trading the loan.
Both loans and receivables and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
Subsequent recognition is at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ii Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are assets that are either designated as available for sale or are assets that do not meet the definition of loans and receivables and are not derivatives or assets held at fair value through profit and loss.
These are principally but not exclusively investment securities intended to be held for an indefinite period of time which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
They are initially measured at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement is at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in equity except for impairment losses and translation differences, which are recognised in the income statement.
Upon derecognition of the asset, or where there is objective evidence that the investment security is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised in equity are removed from equity and recycled to the income statement.
iii Held to maturity financial assets Held to maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that the Group has the ability and intention to hold to maturity.
Subsequent measurement is at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
No financial assets were classified as held to maturity during either 2006 or 2007. iv Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset or liability is classified in this category if it is held for trading or is so designated by management on initial recognition.
A financial asset or liability is classified as held for trading if it is a derivative not in an IAS 39 compliant accounting hedge relationship, or if it is acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
In certain circumstances other assets and liabilities may be designated as held at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
These are when: a Doing so significantly reduces measurement inconsistencies that would arise if the asset or liability were carried at amortised cost but a related derivative was treated as held for trading: b Certain investments are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management strategy and are reported to management on that basis: c Financial instruments contain significant embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows from the instruments.
The Group holds certain investment securities, such as Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs that contain a significant embedded derivative that is not clearly and closely related.
These fall under the description c above and are therefore measured at fair value through profit and loss.
The assets are initially measured at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Subsequent measurement is at fair value including interest cash flows and accruals, with changes in fair value included directly in the income statement within other income, except for derivative instruments where interest cash flows and accruals are recorded within net interest income.
The fair values of quoted investments in active markets are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
f Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
g Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group undertakes transactions in derivative financial instruments, which include cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps, equity swaps, interest rate caps, forward rate agreements, options, foreign exchange contracts and similar instruments, for non-trading purposes.
The Groups derivative activities are entered into for the purpose of matching or eliminating risk from potential movements in interest and foreign exchange rates inherent in the Groups assets, liabilities and positions.
All derivative transactions are for economic hedging purposes and so it is therefore decided at the outset which position the derivative will be hedging.
Derivatives are reviewed regularly for their effectiveness as hedges and corrective action taken, if appropriate.
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets and where these are not available from valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
Where derivatives are not designated as part of a hedging relationship, changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement.
Where derivatives are designated within hedging relationships, the treatment of the fair value changes depends on the nature of the hedging relationship as explained below.
Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
The Group documents at inception of the hedge relationship the link between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
i Cash flow hedges A cash flow hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability in cash flows, such as variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
The effective portion of changes in the derivative fair value is recognised in equity, and recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit and loss.
The fair value gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Fair value hedges A fair value hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, such as fixed rate loans.
Changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
If derivatives are not designated as hedges then changes in fair values are recognised immediately in the income statement.
54 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives are embedded within other non-derivative host instruments to create a hybrid instrument.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risk of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value, the Group separates the embedded derivative from the host instrument and measures it at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
h Sale and repurchase agreements Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos are reclassified in the financial statements as assets pledged when the transferee has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge the collateral: the counterparty liability is included in amounts due to other banks, deposits from banks, other deposits or deposits due to customers, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell, reverse repos, are recorded as loans and advances to banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
i Impairment losses The Group assesses its financial assets or groups of financial assets for objective evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised if, and only if, there is a loss event or events that has occurred after initial recognition and before the balance sheet date and has a reliably measurable impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets or groups of financial assets.
Losses that are incurred as a result of events occurring after the balance sheet date are not recognised in these accounts.
i Assets held at amortised cost The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following loss events: a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: b a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal repayments: c the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider: d it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: e the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties: or f observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: i. adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio: ii.
national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the portfolio.
If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an impairment allowance and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
In future periods the unwind of the discount is recognised within interest income.
When a loan is uncollectible, it is written off against the related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the customers credit rating, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the impairment allowance.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
ii Available for sale financial assets For available for sale financial assets, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset, or group of financial assets are impaired.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets acquisition cost less principal repayments and amortisation and the current fair value.
The amount of the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
This includes cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in equity which are recycled from equity to the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
iii Renegotiated loans Loans to customers whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due but are treated as fully performing loans only after the minimum number of required payments under the new arrangements have been received.
In subsequent years, the asset is considered to be past due and disclosed only if renegotiated again within that year.
j Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Derecognition is the point at which the Group removes an asset or liability from its balance sheet.
The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
The Group also derecognises financial assets that it transfers to another party provided the transfer of the asset also transfers the right to receive the cash flows of the financial asset.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but it does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly derecognised.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
55 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued k Securitisation transactions Certain Group companies have issued debt securities in order to finance specific loans and advances to customers.
Both the debt securities in issue and the loans and advances to customers remain on the Group balance sheet within the appropriate balance sheet headings unless: i a fully proportional share of all or of specifically identified cash flows have been transferred to the holders of the debt securities, in which case that proportion of the assets are derecognised: ii substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the assets have been transferred, in which case the assets are fully derecognised: or iii if a significant proportion of the risks and rewards have been transferred, the assets are recognised only to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
l Debt and equity securities in issue Issued securities are classified as liabilities where the contractual arrangements result in the Group having an obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset to the security holder, or to exchange financial instruments under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group.
Issued securities are classified as equity where they meet the definition of equity and confer a residual interest in the Groups assets on the holder of the securities.
Financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate see interest income and expense.
Equity instruments are initially recognised at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income tax and are not subsequently remeasured.
Appropriations to holders of equity securities are deducted from equity, net of any related income tax, as they become irrevocably due to the holders of the securities.
m Foreign currency translation The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the restatement and settlement of such transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items measured at amortised cost and denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated at the exchange rate at the date of valuation.
Where these are held at fair value through profit and loss, exchange differences are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
n Share-based payments Share-based payments are accounted for on a fair value basis.
The Group measures the fair value of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP using a Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of the Save As You Earn scheme and all other share based payment schemes using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and is recognised in the income statement over the relevant vesting period and adjusted for forfeitures, with the number of shares expected to be forfeited estimated at each balance sheet date prior to the vesting date.
The impact of any revisions to estimates is reflected in the income statement, with the corresponding adjustment recognised in equity.
The only exception is where the share-based payment has vesting outcomes attached to market based performance conditions such as in the case of the LTIPs.
Under these circumstances, the Monte Carlo simulation model takes into account these market based performance conditions which effectively estimate the number of shares expected to vest.
No subsequent adjustment is then made to the fair value charge for shares that do not vest in the event that these performance conditions are not met.
Where employees do not meet vesting conditions, options are cancelled and any unexpensed option costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, the Group has only applied the requirements of the standard to equity settled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002. o Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies, which is represented by the excess of fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired, is capitalised and shown as an asset in the balance sheet.
It is reviewed for impairment annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount, having been tested for impairment at 31 December 2003. ii Computer software Costs incurred in acquiring and developing computer software for internal use are capitalised as intangible assets where the software leads to the creation of an identifiable non-monetary asset and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group from its use for a period of over one year.
The software is classified as an intangible asset where it is not an integral part of the related hardware and amortised over its estimated useful life which is generally 3 to 5 years.
Costs associated with maintaining software are expensed as they are incurred.
p Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, including cash and non-restricted balances with central banks.
The facility with the Bank of England represents a loan and is not included within cash and cash equivalents.
q Taxation Income tax payable on taxable profits current tax based on the applicable tax law in each jurisdiction is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Income tax recoverable on tax allowances is recognised as an asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against current or future taxable profits.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
However deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the parent and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred and current tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred or current tax is also dealt with in equity.
56 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they arise in the same reporting tax group and where there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
r Pensions and employee benefits The Company operates the Northern Rock Pension Scheme the Scheme to provide retirement benefits for staff.
Staff who joined the Scheme before 1 July 1999 participate in the funded, contracted out, defined benefit section of the scheme unless they opt out.
Other staff, including those employed at 1 July 1999 but not members of the defined benefit section of the Scheme at that date, together with staff employed from 1 July 1999, participate in the defined contribution section of the scheme unless they opt out.
The assets of both sections of the Scheme are held in a trustee administered fund separate from the assets of Northern Rock plc.
A full actuarial valuation of the Groups defined benefit section of the scheme is undertaken every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years: these valuations are updated to 31 December each year by qualified independent actuaries.
For the purpose of these annual updates, scheme assets are included at their fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method.
Liabilities in the defined benefit section of the scheme are discounted using rates equivalent to the market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The resulting net surplus or deficit is included in the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The Groups income statement includes the current service cost of providing pension benefits, the expected return on the schemes assets, net of administration costs, and the interest cost on the schemes liabilities.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the Scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the average vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
s Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment, as appropriate.
Additions and subsequent expenditure are included in the assets carrying value or are recognised as a separate asset only when they improve the expected future economic benefits to be derived from the asset.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided using the straight line method to allocate costs less residual values over estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold property 100 years Leasehold property Unexpired period of the lease Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings plant 30 years furniture 10 years other 5 years Computer equipment PCs 3 years other 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Where the cost of freehold land can be identified separately from buildings, the land value is not depreciated.
Fixed assets are subject to impairment testing, if deemed appropriate.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until they have been completed and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The costs of financing assets in the course of construction are not included in the costs of the assets.
Assets in the course of construction are included within the impairment test referred to above where appropriate.
t Leases Operating lease payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis unless a different systematic basis is more appropriate.
Where an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor in compensation is charged to the income statement in the period in which termination is made.
u Share capital i Share issue costs Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
ii Dividends on shares Dividends on shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or paid.
iii Treasury shares Where any group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from total shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
v Implementation of new standards and amendments to published standards and interpretations effective 1 January 2007 IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and a complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures became mandatory for the Groups accounting period beginning on 1 January 2007.
These amend the disclosures relating to financial instruments and require the disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information relating to the exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
The disclosures required by IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 are included in these financial statements.
The application of the interpretations listed below did not result in substantial changes to the Groups accounting policies: IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives.
57 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued w Early adoption of standards The Group has not early adopted any standards or interpretations during 2007. x Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective Certain new standards and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are relevant and mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 but which the Group has not adopted early, as follows: IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 requires disclosure of segmental details based on management reporting structures, and is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group believes the application of this standard will have no material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective for periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
The Group believes the application of this interpretation will have no material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
This interpretation effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 relates to the extent to which a pension surplus may be recognised as an asset in an entitys balance sheet, and also considers whether a minimum funding liability may give rise to a liability.
If the Group were to have adopted IFRIC 14 during 2007, there would have been no impact on the financial statements.
Prior year restatement The disclosure of certain items outlined below has been amended within the income statement.
Hedge ineffectiveness on IAS 39 compliant fair value and cash flow hedges is now included within interest income or interest expense as appropriate and all other items previously recorded within net hedge ineffectiveness are now presented within net trading income.
In addition, gains and losses on available for sale securities, previously included within interest receivable, have been reclassified as a separate component of income.
In accordance with accounting practice and in the interests of comparability, the results for the year ended 31 December 2006 have therefore been restated and were restated in the 2007 Interim Results.
There is no impact on the overall results for 2006 or net assets at 31 December 2006 as a result of this restatement.
The impact on the previously published figures is as follows: Year to 31 December 2006 As reported Restatement Restated m m m Interest and similar income 4,972.3 37.5 4,934.8 Interest expense and similar charges 4,123.2 6.5 4,116.7 Net interest income 849.1 31.0 818.1 Fee and commission income 193.2 193.2 Fee and commission expense 42.9 42.9 Other operating income 2.5 1.1 1.4 Gains on available for sale securities 45.1 45.1 Net trading income 1.9 1.9 Net hedge ineffectiveness 14.9 14.9 Total income 1,016.8 1,016.8 The Group enters into derivative financial instruments for economic hedging purposes.
Some of these are designated and accounted for as IAS 39 compliant fair value or cash flow hedging relationships.
Others which although effective as economic hedges are not accounted for as hedges within the statutory results.
These derivatives include forward currency contracts, economic hedges of certain foreign currency assets and liabilities, wholesale funding and instruments included within non shareholders funds and previously effective hedges which no longer meet the hedge accounting criteria and consequently have been fide-designated and accounted for as trading derivatives.
The fair value movements of future cash flows excluding accruals on trading derivatives were previously separately identified within Net hedge ineffectiveness and other unrealised fair value gains and losses, together with the translation gains and losses on underlying instruments arising from the retranslation from foreign currency into sterling.
The periodic interest settlements and accruals on such derivatives are included within interest income or expense, as appropriate.
Net hedge ineffectiveness on fair value hedges represents the difference between changes in the fair value of future cash flows excluding accruals of the hedging derivatives and the changes in the fair value of future cash flows excluding accruals of the underlying hedged items.
Critical accounting estimates a Impairment losses on loans and advances Individual impairment losses on loans and advances are calculated based on an individual valuation of the underlying asset.
Collective impairment losses on loans and advances are calculated using a statistical model.
The key assumptions used in the model are the probability of any account going into default in the next twelve months as a result of an event that had occurred prior to the balance sheet date, the loss incurred in the event of possession or write off, the roll rates of borrowers moving from lower levels of arrears to serious arrears and possession or write off and the time period from the date of the event causing the loss to the date of realisation of the property or write off.
The probability of accounts going into default is based on application and behavioural scorecards, which are regularly recalibrated to take account of current circumstances.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns from lending over previous years and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
In addition, management considers how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and makes any adjustments that it believes to be necessary to reflect current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, inaccuracies within the models used compared to actual outcomes and assumptions which differ from actual outcomes.
To the extent that the loss given default differs by 10%, the impairment allowance would be an estimated 11.8m higher 2006 9.4m or 15.8m lower 2006 10.1m respectively.
58 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates continued Impairment losses on unsecured investment loans For Structured Investment Vehicles SIVs, where no formal restructuring has been completed, the best available estimate of future expected cash flows upon which to base an impairment loss is the net asset value NAV of the SIV.
If NAVs were to rise by 5% this would reduce the impairment charge by 6.8m.
If NAVs were to fall by 5%, this would increase the impairment charge by 6.5m.
b Fair value calculations Fair value is defined as the value at which assets, liabilities or positions could be closed out or sold in a transaction with a willing and knowledgeable counterparty.
For the majority of instruments carried at fair value, these are determined by reference to quoted market prices.
Where these are not available, fair value is based upon cash flow models, which use wherever possible independently sourced market parameters such as interest rate yield curves, currency rates and option volatilities.
Other factors are also considered, such as counterparty credit quality and liquidity.
Management must use judgement and estimates where not all necessary data can be externally sourced or where factors specific to Northern Rocks holdings need to be considered.
The accuracy of the fair value calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements, inaccuracies within the models used compared to actual outcomes and incorrect assumptions.
For example, if management were to use a tightening in the credit spread of 10 basis points, the fair values of liabilities and derivatives would increase from the reported fair values by 117.9m 2006 97.2m.
c Average life of secured lending IAS 39 requires interest earned from mortgage lending to be measured under the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Management must therefore use judgement to estimate the expected life of each instrument and hence the expected cash flows relating to it.
The accuracy of the effective interest rate would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements resulting in altered customer behaviour, inaccuracies in the models used compared to actual outcomes and incorrect assumptions.
If the estimated average life of secured loans were increased or reduced by one month, the value of such loans on the balance sheet would be increased or decreased by 23.0m 2006 12.5m and 24.6m 2006 13.1m respectively.
d Pension benefits The present value of the pensions obligations is dependent upon an actuarial calculation which includes a number of assumptions.
These assumptions include the discount rate, which is used to determine the present value of the estimated future cash outflows that will be required to meet the pension obligation.
In determining the appropriate discount rate to use, the Group considers market yields of high quality corporate bonds denominated in sterling that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the pension liability.
Were this discount rate to reduce by 0.1% or increase by 0.1% from the current management estimate, the carrying value of the pension obligations would be an estimated 8.4m higher 2006 8.7m or 8.2m lower 2006 8.5m respectively.
Other key assumptions for pension benefits including mortality tables are based in part upon current market conditions.
Additional information is included in note 9.
Interest and similar income 2007 2006 Restated note 3 m m On secured advances 5,646.1 3,989.0 On other lending 533.1 416.4 On investment securities and deposits 728.3 529.4 6,907.5 4,934.8 Interest accrued on individually impaired assets was 6.2m 2006 2.1m.
Interest expense and similar charges 2007 2006 Restated note 3 m m On retail customer accounts 1,034.1 958.3 On other deposit accounts including loans from central bank 735.9 273.3 On debt securities in issue 4,219.0 2,829.3 On subordinated liabilities 132.2 46.4 On tier one notes 15.4 13.4 Other 9.5 4.0 6,146.1 4,116.7 59 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 7.
Operating expenses 2007 2006 m m Administrative expenses Wages and salaries 127.6 144.2 Social security costs 16.2 12.9 Other pension costs 14.8 4.9 Total staff costs 158.6 162.0 Other administrative expenses 88.6 85.2 247.2 247.2 Other administrative expenses include: Hire of equipment 2.9 4.4 Property rentals 4.8 4.5 Remuneration of auditors see below 2.4 1.8 Non-recurring administrative expenses Non-recurring administrative expenses incurred in the second half of 2007 are analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Professional fees incurred by the Company 21.2 Professional fees recharged by the Tripartite Authorities 12.5 Corporate advisory fees 2.5 Reimbursement of third party expenses 5.1 Cost of staff withdrawals from Save As You Earn schemes 4.5 Other non-recurring administrative expenses 5.2 51.0 The average number of persons employed by the Group and Company was as follows: 2007 2006 Full time 5,145 4,811 Part time 1,189 1,125 Full details of the Directors remuneration and shareholdings are included in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 7 to 20.
Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor, as detailed below: 2007 2006 m m Administrative expenses Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 1.0 0.5 Fees payable to Company auditor and its associates for other services The audit of Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 Other services pursuant to legislation including review of half year Interim Statement 0.3 0.3 Reporting accountant services see note i 0.7 0.7 2.4 1.8 Non-recurring administrative expenses Fees payable to Company auditor and its associates for other services Due diligence in connection with proposed transactions 1.1 Other services see note ii 5.1 6.2 i Reporting accountant services comprised objective review of the verification of historical financial information and the performance of certain agreed upon assurance procedures for securitisation transactions and the raising of wholesale funding.
ii Other services comprised review of the Companys forecasts, proposed restructuring plans as developed by the Company, its options to manage liquidity and regulatory capital, its obligations to key financial stakeholders and its reporting and other obligations to the Tripartite authorities under various agreements.
60 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 8.
Share-based payment As a result of The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008 all share schemes were extinguished on 22 February 2008.
This Order is a non adjusting post balance sheet event and accordingly there is no accounting impact reflected in this note.
This note therefore reflects the position of these share schemes as at 31 December 2007.
Summary of schemes Northern Rock granted share options to executive officers and employees under the following schemes: Employee Share Option Scheme Employee Sharesave Scheme Equity instruments other than options have been granted under the following schemes: Share Incentive Plan Long Term Incentive Plan Share Matching Scheme Deferred Share Scheme Further details of each scheme are given below, including their impact on the income statement.
IFRS 2 requires re-measurement of the compensation expense where non-market conditions have not been met, or where the expectation of the number of options that will vest in future has changed.
As a result of this re-measurement a number of the schemes require a credit to the income statement in 2007.
Share Option Schemes Employee Share Option Scheme The Employee Share Option Scheme is an incentive scheme established in 1998 under which eligible employees may be granted share options.
In accordance with the scheme, options are granted at an exercise price equivalent to market price on the grant date with a vesting period which expires when the Group achieves real EPS growth of 2% p. a. over any three year period following grant date.
Upon vesting, options may be exercised up to ten years from the grant date.
An initial grant of options was made in 1998, and further grants have been made in 2002, 2005, 2006 and 2007.
Employee Sharesave Scheme Qualifying employees may participate in the Employee Sharesave Schemes which are HM Revenue & Customs approved Save As You Earn SAYE option schemes.
Under these schemes, employees may contribute a portion of their monthly salary, up to a specified maximum amount, and at the expiry of a fixed term have the option to use the savings to acquire shares in Northern Rock plc.
The fixed terms outlined in the schemes for option vesting are three, five and seven years.
Options can be exercised up to six months after vesting.
Employees who leave the Company prior to the options fully vesting may be able to exercise their options, for up to six months, if they meet certain specified criteria.
Options are granted to the employees at a discount from the market price.
This was 20% for options granted in 1997 and 2000 and 10% for subsequent grants.
The vesting period for the options is equivalent to the fixed terms in accordance with the schemes rules.
Five Sharesave schemes were in operation at the end of 2007 resulting from options offered to employees during 2000, 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007.
Employees could save in any number of the schemes up to an overall specified maximum amount.
The following tables summarise the movement in the number of share options between those outstanding at the beginning and end of the year, together with changes in the weighted average exercise price over the same period.
The number of shares authorised for grant under each scheme was equal to the actual number of shares granted in all years presented.
Options outstanding Options Options Options Options Options Options at the granted exercised lapsed expired outstanding exercisable beginning during during during during at the end at the end of the year the year the year the year the year of the year of the year 2007 Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme 1,808,809 1,417,311 391,498 Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme 633,853 820 590,614 2,855 39,564 Employee Sharesave 2005 Scheme 733,350 699 385,128 625 346,898 Employee Sharesave 2003 Scheme 261,965 73,728 188,237 Employee Sharesave 2000 Scheme 436,319 434,268 2,051 Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme 1,599,750 129,750 1,470,000 5,500 Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 1,293,250 5,000 88,250 1,200,000 6,250 Employee Share Option 2005 Scheme 3,817,000 27,000 185,000 3,605,000 22,000 Employee Share Option 2002 Scheme 355,400 43,800 5,000 306,600 306,600 Employee Share Option 1998 Scheme 169,962 31,304 16,250 122,408 122,408 2006 Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme 664,833 262 30,718 633,853 692 Employee Sharesave 2005 Scheme 772,199 470 38,379 733,350 1,909 Employee Sharesave 2003 Scheme 788,010 518,708 7,337 261,965 Employee Sharesave 2000 Scheme 436,319 436,319 837 Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 1,407,500 3,000 111,250 1,293,250 5,250 Employee Share Option 2005 Scheme 4,111,000 27,000 267,000 3,817,000 13,000 Employee Share Option 2002 Scheme 686,500 326,100 5,000 355,400 355,400 Employee Share Option 1998 Scheme 312,316 134,854 7,500 169,962 169,962 All options outstanding at 31 December 2007 under the Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme, the Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme, the Employee Sharesave 2005 Scheme, the Employee Sharesave 2003 Scheme, the Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme, the Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme, the Employee Share Option 2005 Scheme, the Employee Share Option 2002 Scheme and the Employee Share Option 1998 Scheme were granted with an exercise price of 7.16: 9.74: 7.27: 5.98: 11.34: 11.27: 7.73: 6.41 and 6.18 respectively.
The market price of the Companys shares at the grant date for each of these schemes was 7.37: 11.35: 8.08: 6.40: 11.34: 11.27: 7.73: 6.41 and 6.18 respectively.
61 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 8.
Share-based payment continued Share-based compensation costs relating to these schemes were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme 2.1 Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme 1.2 0.3 Employee Sharesave 2005 Scheme 0.6 0.3 Employee Sharesave 2003 Scheme 0.1 0.2 Employee Sharesave 2000 Scheme Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme 0.7 Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 0.3 0.5 Employee Share Option 2005 Scheme 0.7 1.7 Employee Share Option 2002 Scheme Employee Share Option 1998 Scheme In accordance with the transitional provisions, the Group has only applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to equity settled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002.
The fair value of options granted during the year were as follows: 2007 2006 Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme Three year vesting 1.37 Five year vesting 1.68 Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme 3.24 Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme Three year vesting 2.33 Five year vesting 2.98 Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 1.95 The fair value of options granted during the year was determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The significant inputs into the model were share prices at the grant date, exercise prices, and option lives as disclosed above, and volatility and risk free interest rates as follows: Volatility 2007 2006 % % Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme Three year vesting 23.8 Five year vesting 24.0 Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme 27.0 Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme Three year vesting 19.4 Five year vesting 25.0 Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 19.4 27.9 The volatility is based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period equal to the vesting period of each scheme ending on the day before the grant date for each scheme.
Risk free interest rates 2007 2006 % % Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme Three year vesting 5.3 Five year vesting 5.2 Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme 4.8 Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme Three year vesting 4.4 Five year vesting 4.4 Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 4.2 4.3 The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at 31 December 2007 were as follows.
Employee Sharesave 2007 Scheme 4.3 years Employee Sharesave 2006 Scheme 2.6 years Employee Sharesave 2005 Scheme 1.9 years Employee Sharesave 2003 Scheme 1.6 years Employee Share Option 2007 Scheme 9.1 years Employee Share Option 2006 Scheme 8.1 years Employee Share Option 2005 Scheme 7.0 years Employee Share Option 2002 Scheme 4.5 years Employee Share Option 1998 Scheme 0.4 years In accordance with the transitional provisions, the Group has only applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to equity settled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002.
62 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 8.
Share-based payment continued Other Equity Instruments Share Incentive Plan Approved Profit Sharing Scheme The Share Incentive Plan SIP was established in 2003 and was available to all employees who have completed a minimum of six months of service.
Provided that the Group met certain performance criteria annually as outlined in the SIP, eligible employees were granted rights to shares in Northern Rock plc for an amount not in excess of 5% of their annual salary, subject to a maximum of 3,000, free from any consideration.
The rights to shares vested immediately.
The Company subsequently purchased shares to satisfy the shares vested and transferred them to an independent trustee company.
Shares were transferred to the employees by the trustee company on the fifth anniversary of the grant date.
The SIP was introduced following changes to UK legislation regarding employee share compensation schemes.
Prior to this the Company operated an Approved Profit Sharing Scheme APSS for employees.
The qualifying conditions for and operation of APSS were the same as for SIP except that shares were transferred to the employees by the trustee company on the third anniversary of the grant date rather than the fifth anniversary.
Compensation expense relating to this scheme in 2007 was nil 2006 3.5m.
Long Term Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain other senior executives are granted rights to shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
All details relating to this scheme are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 9, 12, 17 and 18.
The following tables summarise the movement in the number of share options between those outstanding at the beginning and end of the year, together with changes in weighted average exercise price over the same period.
Details of rights to shares held by Executive Directors are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 17.
Details of all rights held under the scheme are shown below: Rights outstanding Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights at the granted exercised lapsed expired outstanding exercisable beginning during during during during at the end at the end of the year the year the year the year the year of the year of the year 2007 LTIP 2007-2009 Scheme 693,426 101,624 591,802 LTIP 2006-2008 Scheme 610,968 97,304 513,664 LTIP 2005-2007 Scheme 659,665 659,665 LTIP 2004-2006 Scheme 581,745 241,958 339,787 2006 LTIP 2006-2008 Scheme 619,223 8,255 610,968 LTIP 2005-2007 Scheme 669,318 9,653 659,665 LTIP 2004-2006 Scheme 591,441 9,696 581,745 LTIP 2003-2005 Scheme 636,966 636,966 The fair value of shares granted during the year was determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The significant inputs into the model were share prices of 10.80, 10.15 and 7.68 at the grant date in 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively, exercise price of nil, standard deviation of expected share price returns of 19.5%, 19.9% and 25.3% respectively, option life of 3 years, and the annual risk free interest rate of 5.5%, 4.3% and 4.5% respectively.
Correlation of the Companys share price movement with the comparator companies in the FTSE 100 index or FTSE 350 index as appropriate is calculated by reference to the share price of the Company compared to the individual FTSE 100 or 350 companies on a daily basis over the three year period ending on the date before the grant date for each scheme.
The volatility is based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices over the three year period ending on the date before the grant date for each scheme.
Compensation expense relating to this scheme in 2007 was a credit of 3.1m 2006 charge of 2.7m.
Share Matching Schemes The Company operates two Share Matching Schemes which entitle certain employees to use their annual bonus under the short term cash bonus scheme to purchase shares in Northern Rock plc.
The first scheme applies to Executive Directors and other senior executives Share Matching Scheme 1.
All details relating to this scheme are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 8, 9, 15 and 16.
Compensation expense relating to this scheme in 2007 was a credit of 3.9m 2006 charge of 4.1m.
Details of the rights held by Executive Directors are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 15.
The second scheme Share Matching Scheme 2 was introduced during 2001 and applies to other senior management.
Under the scheme, employees are entitled to use their annual bonus under the short term cash bonus scheme to purchase shares in Northern Rock plc.
For certain senior employees for every one share purchased by the employee, the Company grants the employee the right to one additional Matching Share, free from any consideration.
For other senior employees for every two shares purchased by the employee, the Company grants the employee the right to one additional Matching Share, free from any consideration.
For 2004 and previous years, the release of Matching Shares was not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition.
For awards in 2005 and following years the release of Matching Shares will be dependent on the Group achieving real EPS growth of 3% p. a. over the three years prior to their release.
The Company has purchased or would purchase shares on behalf of the employees for the amounts allocated by them from their annual bonuses together with shares equivalent to the related rights granted and has transferred them to an independent trustee.
Compensation expense relating to this scheme in 2007 was a credit of 0.1m 2006 charge of 0.4m.
Details of the rights held by employees in Share Matching Schemes are detailed below: Rights outstanding Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights at the granted exercised lapsed expired outstanding exercisable beginning during during during during at the end at the end of the year the year the year the year the year of the year of the year 2007 Scheme 1 1,185,580 1,059,377 391,939 536,333 1,316,685 Scheme 2 179,884 50,765 55,461 73,658 2006 Scheme 1 1,093,382 439,683 345,859 1,626 1,185,580 Scheme 2 146,509 73,755 40,057 323 179,884 63 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 8.
Share-based payment continued Deferred Share Scheme Executive Directors or other executives who receive a bonus under the short-term cash bonus scheme may, at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee, be granted an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan with a pre-tax value equal to the pre-tax value of their bonus under the short term cash bonus scheme.
A participant who is granted an award must normally continue to hold those shares and remain an employee of the Group for a period of three years from the grant date in order to retain the full number of shares so granted to them, although shares will be released earlier in certain good leaver circumstances.
Compensation expense relating to this scheme in 2007 was a credit of 1.5m 2006 charge of 2.8m.
Details of the rights held by Executive Directors are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 16.
Details of all rights held under the Deferred Share Scheme are shown below: Rights outstanding Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights at the granted exercised lapsed expired outstanding exercisable beginning during during during during at the end at the end of the year the year the year the year the year of the year of the year 2007 803,876 350,462 354,279 325,201 474,858 2006 760,779 305,597 262,500 803,876 The table below sets out the total number of rights granted during each year and the fair value at grant date for the following schemes: 2007 2006 Number of Fair value Number of Fair value rights at grant rights at grant granted date granted date Share Incentive Plan 314,054 11.40 201,544 11.25 Long Term Incentive Plan 693,426 6.54 619,223 5.04 Share Matching Scheme 1 old version 42,159 11.87 439,683 10.15 Share Matching Scheme 1 new version 1,017,218 10.76 n a Share Matching Scheme 2 n a 73,755 11.32 Deferred Share Scheme 350,462 11.87 305,597 10.15 The number of rights granted under the Share Incentive Plan in any year are based on the Groups performance for the preceding financial year.
The estimated compensation cost in respect of these rights is charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Retirement benefit obligations The Company operates one main employee benefit scheme the Scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme provides benefits based on final salary for certain employees.
The assets of the Scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
Contributions to the defined benefit section are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
The defined benefit section was closed to new entrants in July 1999.
The Companys policy for recognising actuarial gains and losses is to recognise them immediately on the balance sheet through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The overall costs of the Scheme have been recognised in the Companys accounts in accordance with IAS19.
Summary of assumptions 2007 2006 % % Price inflation 3.30 3.00 Rate of increase in salaries 4.55 4.75 Rate of increase for pre 6 April 2006 pensions in payment 3.70 3.35 Rate of increase for post 6 April 2006 pensions in payment 3.30 3.00 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.30 3.00 Discount rate 5.80 5.10 Expected rate of return on assets 4.92 6.68 in excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element During October 2007, the Schemes trustees significantly fide-risked the asset portfolio of the scheme.
The fide-risking resulted in approximately 170m being switched from equities into gilts.
As a consequence, the expected return on the assets for the year ended 31 December 2007 reduced to 6.31% compared to the expected return for the year of 6.68% anticipated as at 31 December 2006.
For the purpose of calculating the total pension expense for the year ended 31 December 2007, an expected return on assets of 6.31% has been used.
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a member aged 60.
2007 2006 Pensioner Non-pensioner Pensioner Non-pensioner Male 27.2 years 28.4 years 24.9 years 25.8 years Female 29.7 years 30.8 years 27.9 years 28.8 years 64 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 9.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The expected return on assets has been derived as the weighted average of the expected returns from each of the main asset classes.
The expected return for each asset class reflects a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available, and the views of investment organisations.
The actual return on plan assets in 2007 was 27.1m 2006 23.7m.
Categories of assets held 2007 2006 % % Equities 2 53 Bonds 93 37 Property 4 10 Cash other 1 Total 100 100 Funded status 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 354.6 350.7 311.0 251.4 226.1 Assets at fair value 360.3 329.0 256.6 198.9 178.8 Defined benefit asset liability 5.7 21.7 54.4 52.5 47.3 Disclosed pension expense for year: a Components of defined benefit pension expense 2007 2006 m m Current service cost 11.2 10.5 Interest cost 18.1 14.8 Expected return on assets 20.9 19.1 Past service cost 4.5 Total pension expense 8.4 1.7 b Statement of recognised income and expense SORIE 2007 2006 m m Actuarial gain loss recognised in SORIE 29.5 16.5 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at 1 January 37.8 21.3 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at 31 December 8.3 37.8 Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation during the year 2007 2006 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 January 350.7 311.0 Defined benefit service cost 11.2 10.5 Interest cost 18.1 14.8 Defined benefit employee contributions 2.0 1.9 Scheme amendment 4.5 Actuarial gain loss 23.3 21.1 Defined benefit actual benefit payments 4.1 4.1 Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 December 354.6 350.7 Movements in defined benefit fair value of assets during the year 2007 2006 m m Fair value of assets at 1 January 329.0 256.6 Expected return on assets 20.9 19.1 Actuarial gain 6.2 4.6 Defined benefit actual company contributions 6.3 50.9 Defined benefit employee contributions 2.0 1.9 Defined benefit actual benefits paid 4.1 4.1 Fair value of assets at 31 December 360.3 329.0 65 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 9.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Experience gains and losses 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 354.6 350.7 311.0 251.4 Fair value of assets 360.3 329.0 256.6 198.9 Surplus deficit 5.7 21.7 54.4 52.5 Experience gain loss on defined benefit obligation 23.3 21.1 39.4 7.0 Experience gain on assets 6.2 4.6 20.8 4.2 Estimated contributions for year ending 31 December 2008 2008 m Estimated employer contributions for 2008 6.0 Estimated employee contributions for 2008 1.9 Estimated total contributions for 2008 7.9 The contributions set out in the above table do not reflect any impact of a potential reduction in employment levels that may arise in 2008 following the implementation of the revised business plan and business objectives.
Pension costs for the defined contribution section of the Scheme were: 2007 2006 m m Total included in staff costs 4.2 3.2 10.
Impairment charges On On advances advances On secured on secured on On other On Total on unsecured residential residential buy secured unsecured retail loans and investment property to let property advances loans advances loans Total m m m m m m m 2007 Group At 1 January 2007 21.3 4.9 7.4 92.4 126.0 126.0 Income Statement: Increase in allowance during the year net of recoveries 53.2 0.5 8.6 177.4 239.7 232.2 471.9 Amounts written off during the year 17.0 0.3 13.4 93.0 123.7 123.7 Discount unwind 0.9 0.2 0.4 1.8 3.3 3.3 Amounts released from disposal of loan book note 11 2.3 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2007 58.4 5.3 0.7 178.6 243.0 232.2 475.2 Company At 1 January 2007 21.3 4.9 7.4 92.5 126.1 126.1 At 31 December 2007 58.4 5.3 0.7 178.7 243.1 232.2 475.3 On On advances advances On secured on secured on On other On Total on unsecured residential residential buy secured unsecured retail loans and investment property to let property advances loans advances loans Total m m m m m m m 2006 Group At 1 January 2006 29.2 3.3 4.7 87.1 124.3 124.3 Income Statement: Increase in allowance during the year net of recoveries 5.9 0.5 2.2 72.6 81.2 81.2 Amounts written off during the year 14.6 0.8 69.0 82.8 82.8 Discount unwind 0.8 0.3 0.5 1.7 3.3 3.3 At 31 December 2006 21.3 4.9 7.4 92.4 126.0 126.0 Company At 1 January 2006 29.2 3.3 4.7 93.2 130.4 130.4 At 31 December 2006 21.3 4.9 7.4 92.5 126.1 126.1 66 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 11.
Gain on disposal of loan book During the year the Group sold 1,437.8m net of provisions and fair value adjustments of its commercial loan portfolio to Lehman Commercial Mortgage Conduit Limited in three separate transactions.
Total proceeds net of costs amounted to 1,461.6m.
The surplus on disposal amounted to 23.8m.
Included in the reported results for the year ended 31 December 2007 is net interest income of 7.6m 2006 16.0m in relation to those assets to the date of disposal.
Net trading expense income 2007 2006 Restated note 3 m m Net losses gains on changes in fair value from assets held at fair value 21.1 0.5 Net income from financial assets designated at fair value 3.0 0.6 Fair value movements of future cash flows, excluding accruals, on derivatives not in hedge accounting relationships 998.4 2,811.8 Translation losses gains on underlying instruments 1,045.2 2,812.6 64.9 1.9 13.
Income tax expense 2007 2006 m m The income tax expense for the year comprises: Current tax on loss profit for the year 23.5 168.5 adjustments in respect of prior years 5.7 1.2 utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 3.4 Total current tax 32.6 169.7 Deferred tax see note 33 origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.7 14.0 restatement of group deferred tax liability from 30% 0.6 deferred tax asset not recognised 55.7 Total deferred tax 64.0 14.0 31.4 183.7 The tax on the Groups loss profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 30% 2006 30% as follows: 2007 2006 m m Loss profit before taxation 167.6 626.7 Tax calculated at rate of 30% 2006 30% 50.3 188.0 Current year adjustments deferred tax asset not recognised 55.7 non recurring costs not deductible for tax purposes 37.3 other net non taxable income non deductible expenses for tax purposes 0.4 0.8 utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.6 restatement of group deferred tax liability from 30% see note 33 0.6 Prior year adjustments utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 2.8 other current tax 5.7 1.2 other deferred tax 2.4 6.3 Income tax expense 31.4 183.7 As detailed in notes 39 and 40, current and deferred income tax have also been charged credited direct to equity.
The deferred income tax charged amounts to 41.7m for the Group 2006 credit of 15.6m and 22.6m for the Company 2006 credit of 9.2m.
The current income tax credit amounts to 68.6m for both the Group and the Company 2006 4.3m.
Loss profit attributable to equity shareholders Of the loss profit attributable to equity shareholders, a loss of 263.8 m 2006 profit 384.2m has been dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Companys income statement has not been presented separately.
67 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 15.
Dividends The following tables analyse dividends when paid and the year to which they relate.
2007 2006 pence pence per share per share Ordinary dividends 2005 final dividend 20.7 2006 interim dividend 10.9 2006 final dividend 25.3 25.3 31.6 The final dividend for 2006 of 25.3p was paid to shareholders on 25 May 2007.
The interim dividend for 2007 was declared at 14.2p 2006 10.9p and was due to be paid in the second half of the year.
However, as a result of the challenging conditions faced by the Company, the Board considered that it was not appropriate to pay this dividend, and it was therefore cancelled.
No dividend has been declared for the full year 2007.
Loss earnings per share Loss earnings per Ordinary Share of 65.6 p 2006 94.6p have been calculated by dividing the loss profit attributable to the holders of Ordinary Shares in Northern Rock plc of 271.3 m 2006 394.5m by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue of 413.3m 2006 416.8m.
The loss profit attributable to the holders of Ordinary Shares in Northern Rock plc represents loss profit attributable to equity shareholders of 243.5 m 2006 394.5m less preference dividend of 27.8m 2006 nil.
The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue has been determined after excluding the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares held in trust for employee share schemes of 7.9m 2006 4.4m.
Fully diluted loss earnings per Ordinary Share of 65.6 p 2006 93.8p have been calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue together with no additional 2006 3.9m potentially dilutive shares resulting from options granted under employee share schemes.
Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement basis 2007 Financial Available Designated IAS 39 liabilities at Loans and for sale as held at held for Fair value Cash flow amortised cost receivables securities fair value trading hedge hedge Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Cash 190.2 190.2 Derivative financial instruments 1,415.5 817.4 8.1 2,241.0 Loans and advances to banks 1,292.5 1,292.5 Loans and advances to customers 99,018.5 99,018.5 Investment securities 6,002.7 106.0 6,108.7 Accrued income 21.8 21.8 100,523.0 6,002.7 106.0 1,415.5 817.4 8.1 108,872.7 Non financial assets 448.3 109,321.0 Financial liabilities Loans from central bank 28,473.0 28,473.0 Deposits by banks 744.2 744.2 Customer accounts 11,562.8 11,562.8 Derivative financial instruments 1,371.5 308.3 63.6 1,743.4 Debt securities in issue 61,641.3 61,641.3 Accruals 927.2 927.2 Subordinated liabilities 1,161.8 1,161.8 Tier one notes 207.6 207.6 104,717.9 1,371.5 308.3 63.6 106,461.3 Non financial liabilities 160.4 Total liabilities 106,621.7 Equity 2,699.3 109,321.0 68 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 17.
Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement basis continued 2006 Financial Available Designated IAS 39 liabilities at Loans and for sale as held at held for Fair value Cash flow amortised cost receivables securities fair value trading hedge hedge Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Cash 956.0 956.0 Derivative financial instruments 346.6 524.7 871.3 Loans and advances to banks 5,621.3 5,621.3 Loans and advances to customers 86,472.7 86,472.7 Investment securities 6,510.1 120.3 6,630.4 Accrued income 54.1 54.1 93,104.1 6,510.1 120.3 346.6 524.7 100,605.8 Non financial assets 404.8 101,010.6 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 2,136.2 2,136.2 Customer accounts 26,867.6 26,867.6 Derivative financial instruments 2,183.7 208.8 2,392.5 Debt securities in issue 64,294.3 64,294.3 Accruals 881.2 881.2 Subordinated liabilities 762.4 762.4 Tier one notes 209.4 209.4 95,151.1 2,183.7 208.8 97,543.6 Non financial liabilities 256.4 Total liabilities 97,800.0 Equity 3,210.6 101,010.6 In the analysis above, fair value adjustments of portfolio hedging are included within loans and advances to customers.
Cash and balances with central banks Group and Company 2007 2006 m m Cash in hand 19.7 11.2 Balances with central banks other than mandatory reserve deposits 102.2 865.1 Included in cash and cash equivalents 121.9 876.3 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 68.3 79.7 190.2 956.0 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks are not available for use in day to day operations.
Derivative financial instruments Strategy in using derivative financial instruments The Board has authorised the use of derivative instruments for the purpose of supporting the strategic and operational business activities of the Group and reducing the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
All use of derivative instruments within the Group is to hedge risk exposure, and the Group takes no trading positions in derivatives.
The objective, when using any derivative instrument, is to ensure that the risk to reward profile of any transaction is optimised.
The intention is to only use derivatives to create economically effective hedges.
However, because of the specific requirements of IAS 39 to obtain hedge accounting, not all economic hedges are designated as accounting hedges, either because natural accounting offsets are expected or because obtaining hedge accounting would be especially onerous.
a Fair value hedges The Group designates a number of derivatives as fair values hedges.
In particular the Group has three approaches establishing relationships for: i Hedging the interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk of non-prepayable, foreign currency denominated fixed rate assets or liabilities on a one for one basis with fixed floating or floating fixed cross currency interest rate swaps.
ii Hedging of interest rate risk of a single currency portfolio of sterling, US Dollar and Euro non-prepayable fixed rate assets liabilities on a one for one basis with vanilla fixed floating or floating fixed interest rate swaps.
iii Hedging the interest rate risk of a portfolio of prepayable fixed rate assets with interest rate derivatives.
This solution is used to establish a macro fair value hedge for derivatives hedging fixed rate mortgages.
The Group believes this solution is the most appropriate as it is consistent with its policy for hedging fixed rate mortgages on an economic basis.
The total fair value of derivatives included within fair value hedges at 31 December 2007 was 509.1m.
69 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 19.
Derivative financial instruments continued b Cash flow hedges The Group designates a number of derivatives as cash flow hedges.
In particular, in 2007 the Group adopted an approach of using fixed interest rate swaps in a cash flow hedge strategy economically to hedge the interest rate risk associated with the mortgage pipeline.
The accounting hedge relationship is to hedge floating rate sterling liabilities.
No cash flow hedge relationships were designated in 2006.
The total fair value of derivatives included within cash flow hedges at 31 December 2007 was 55.5 m. c Net investment hedges At present the Group does not designate any derivatives as net investment hedges.
All derivative financial instruments are held for economic hedging purposes, although not all derivatives are designated as hedging instruments under the terms of IAS 39.
The analysis below therefore splits derivatives between those in accounting hedge relationships and those in economic hedge relationships but not in accounting hedge relationships.
2007 2006 Contract Fair values Contract Fair values notional notional Group amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 67,333.3 299.0 274.2 45,083.9 469.5 20.3 Cross currency interest rate swaps 9,408.1 518.4 34.1 7,508.7 55.2 188.5 76,741.4 817.4 308.3 52,592.6 524.7 208.8 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 7,102.3 8.1 63.6 7,102.3 8.1 63.6 83,843.7 825.5 371.9 52,592.6 524.7 208.8 Derivatives in economic hedging relationships but not in accounting hedge relationships Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 4,454.8 84.1 16.4 13,861.6 194.2 9.4 Caps, floors and options 290.0 6.1 290.0 6.6 Equity index swaps 33.4 14.1 134.1 32.8 Embedded derivatives 33.7 15.6 133.0 38.7 4,811.9 104.3 32.0 14,418.7 233.6 48.1 Currency derivatives Cross currency swaps 36,200.0 1,310.9 1,336.4 36,571.9 107.5 1,941.6 Forward foreign exchange 96.7 0.3 3.1 7,856.2 5.5 194.0 36,296.7 1,311.2 1,339.5 44,428.1 113.0 2,135.6 Total derivatives in economic hedging relationships 41,108.6 1,415.5 1,371.5 58,846.8 346.6 2,183.7 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 124,952.3 2,241.0 1,743.4 111,439.4 871.3 2,392.5 Assets Liabilities 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Current 445.0 268.4 568.6 984.6 Non-current 1,796.0 602.9 1,174.8 1,407.9 2,241.0 871.3 1,743.4 2,392.5 Derivatives maturing within one year, whether within accounting hedge relationships or in economic but not accounting hedge relationships, are regarded as current where they are expected to occur within one year.
All other derivatives are regarded as non-current.
70 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 19.
Derivative financial instruments continued 2007 2006 Contract Fair values Contract Fair values notional notional Company amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 65,881.0 281.0 269.1 43,733.0 459.3 9.9 Cross currency interest rate swaps 9,396.7 518.2 34.1 7,124.6 11.8 187.7 75,277.7 799.2 303.2 50,857.6 471.1 197.6 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 7,102.3 8.1 63.6 7,102.3 8.1 63.6 82,380.0 807.3 366.8 50,857.6 471.1 197.6 Derivatives in economic hedging relationships but not in accounting hedge relationships Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 4,454.8 84.1 16.4 14,237.7 200.8 9.7 Caps, floors and options 290.0 6.1 290.0 6.6 Equity index swaps 33.4 14.1 134.1 32.8 Embedded derivatives 33.7 15.6 133.0 38.7 4,811.9 104.3 32.0 14,794.8 240.2 48.4 Currency derivatives Cross currency swaps 6,530.1 127.1 435.6 8,151.8 75.9 620.0 Forward foreign exchange 28.5 1.4 7,809.8 4.0 193.9 6,558.6 127.1 437.0 15,961.6 79.9 813.9 Total derivatives in economic hedging relationships 11,370.5 231.4 469.0 30,756.4 320.1 862.3 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 93,750.5 1,038.7 835.8 81,614.0 791.2 1,059.9 Assets Liabilities 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Current 216.0 213.8 230.0 527.6 Non-current 822.7 577.4 605.8 532.3 1,038.7 791.2 835.8 1,059.9 Gains losses on fair value hedges: 2007 2006 m m On hedging instruments 171.9 38.1 On the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 165.1 24.0 Fair value hedge ineffectiveness 6.8 14.1 Cash flow hedges Periods when cash flows are expected to occur and affect income statement: 2007 2006 m m Within one year 31.2 In one to five years 1.8 29.4 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recorded within net interest income in the income statement amounted to a charge of 7.5m in 2007 2006 nil.
71 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 20.
Loans and advances to customers Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Advances secured on residential property not subject to securitisation 34,951.8 25,058.7 34,951.8 25,058.6 Advances secured on residential property subject to securitisation 49,326.1 47,063.4 49,326.1 47,063.4 84,277.9 72,122.1 84,277.9 72,122.0 Residential buy to let loans not subject to securitisation 6,499.8 5,146.4 6,499.8 5,146.4 Residential buy to let loans subject to securitisation 134.2 134.2 6,499.8 5,280.6 6,499.8 5,280.6 Total advances secured on residential property 90,777.7 77,402.7 90,777.7 77,402.6 Commercial secured advances not subject to securitisation 315.9 1,025.4 315.9 1,025.4 Commercial secured advances subject to securitisation 534.5 534.5 Total other secured advances 315.9 1,559.9 315.9 1,559.9 Unsecured loans not subject to securitisation 7,350.6 7,277.0 7,350.6 7,277.0 Unsecured investment loans 390.4 556.5 390.4 556.5 Amounts due from securitisation special purpose entities 436.7 596.6 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 15.2 21.1 98,834.6 86,796.1 99,286.5 87,413.7 Fixed rate 79,147.5 66,620.3 79,147.5 66,620.3 Variable rate 19,687.1 20,175.8 20,139.0 20,793.4 98,834.6 86,796.1 99,286.5 87,413.7 Current 3,180.7 2,681.1 3,632.6 3,298.7 Non-current 95,653.9 84,115.0 95,653.9 84,115.0 98,834.6 86,796.1 99,286.5 87,413.7 An amount of 111.0m in 2006, in respect of accrued income that forms part of the effective interest rate on loans and advances to customers, has been reclassified from prepayments and accrued income to advances secured on residential property not subject to securitisation within both Group and Company.
The corresponding amount for 2007 is 86.3m.
The cash flow statements have been adjusted accordingly.
Fair value adjustments of portfolio hedging amounting to 183.9m 2006 323.4 m relate to fair value adjustments of loans and advances to customers in relation to interest rate risk as a result of their inclusion in a fair value portfolio hedge relationship.
72 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 22.
Securitisation The Groups results include the results and assets and liabilities of securitisation Special Purpose Entities SPEs, none of which qualify for derecognition under IAS 39, on a line by line basis.
Securitised advances are subject to non-recourse finance arrangements.
These loans have been funded through the issue of mortgage-backed bonds by the SPEs.
The balances of assets subject to securitisation notes in issue at 31 December are as follows: 2007 Gross assets Date of securitised Notes in issue Securitisation company securitisation m m Residential: Granite Mortgages 01-1 plc 26 March 2001 465.4 424.1 Granite Mortgages 02-2 plc 23 September 2002 1,140.7 1,068.6 Granite Mortgages 03-1 plc 27 January 2003 1,670.0 1,644.9 Granite Mortgages 03-2 plc 21 May 2003 1,019.9 962.7 Granite Mortgages 03-3 plc 24 September 2003 930.1 876.9 Granite Mortgages 04-1 plc 28 January 2004 1,569.6 1,485.8 Granite Mortgages 04-2 plc 26 May 2004 1,771.7 1,694.9 Granite Mortgages 04-3 plc 22 September 2004 2,040.3 1,962.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-1 26 January 2005 2,847.6 2,795.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-2 25 May 2005 2,470.5 2,413.6 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-3 31 August 2005 492.3 503.8 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-4 21 September 2005 2,445.9 2,383.3 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-1 25 January 2006 4,486.7 4,423.8 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-2 24 May 2006 2,469.5 2,460.4 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-3 19 September 2006 4,761.9 4,761.5 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-4 29 November 2006 2,822.9 2,787.3 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 07-1 24 January 2007 5,658.6 5,607.0 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 07-2 23 May 2007 4,589.9 4,570.8 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 07-3 17 September 2007 5,170.5 5,074.1 48,824.0 47,900.7 Retained interest in Granite Finance Trustees Limited 5,359.3 Less cash deposits held with Northern Rock plc 4,624.8 Less loan notes held by Northern Rock 5,074.1 Total 49,558.5 42,826.6 The retained interest in Granite Finance Trustees Limited represents Northern Rock plcs share of the assets held by Granite Finance Trustees Limited.
Gross assets securitised and notes in issue as presented above reconcile to amounts included in the consolidated balance sheet within loans and advances to customers and debt securities in issue as follows: Gross assets securitised Notes in issue m m Total as above 49,558.5 42,826.6 Less cash deposits with third parties included within loans and advances to banks 232.4 Less accrued interest on loan notes included within accruals and deferred income 263.8 Add loan notes issued by Whinstone entities see below 506.7 Total advances subject to securitisation see note 21 49,326.1 Total securitised notes as per consolidated balance sheet 43,069.5 At 31 December 2007 the SPEs had cash deposits with Northern Rock plc amounting to 4,624.8m 31 December 2006 2,898.1m.
This balance is restricted in use to the repayment of the debt securities issued by the SPEs and other legal obligations.
On 15 November 2005, Northern Rock entered into a financial guarantee contract with Whinstone Capital Management Limited, a special purpose entity, in respect of 423.0m of the first loss reserve funds held by the Granite securitisation entities repayable to Northern Rock only after repayment of all other liabilities.
Whinstone Capital Management Limited simultaneously issued credit linked notes to the value of 423.0m of which 68.4m were repaid during 2007 2006 29.4m.
The remaining credit linked notes of 325.2m are included within debt securities in issue at year end exchange rates where issued in currencies other than sterling.
On 20 June 2006, Northern Rock entered into a financial guarantee contract with Whinstone Capital Management 2 Limited, a special purpose entity, in respect of 168.5m of the first loss reserve funds held by the Granite securitisation entities repayable to Northern Rock only after repayment of all other liabilities.
Whinstone Capital Management 2 Limited simultaneously issued credit linked notes to the value of 168.5m which are included within debt securities in issue at year end exchange rates where issued in currencies other than sterling.
On 17 September 2007 the Group securitised 5,032.5m of mortgage assets under Granite Master Issuer plc Series 07-3 and purchased all of the loan notes in issue relating to that series for 5,032.5m.
Subsequently 4,600.0m of the notes were pledged as part of the security in a sale and repurchase agreement entered into with the Bank of England see note 28.
The market value of these notes at 31 December 2007 was 4,601.4m.
These transactions have no overall effect on the Groups balance sheet position and did not lead to any derecognition because the Group has retained all of the risks and rewards associated with the loan notes.
73 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 22.
Securitisation continued 2006 Gross assets Date of securitised Notes in issue Securitisation company securitisation m m Residential: Granite Mortgages 00-1 plc 1 March 2000 186.1 170.6 Granite Mortgages 00-2 plc 25 September 2000 330.1 265.9 Granite Mortgages 01-1 plc 26 March 2001 559.2 507.9 Granite Mortgages 02-1 plc 20 March 2002 1,207.7 1,123.6 Granite Mortgages 02-2 plc 23 September 2002 1,417.2 1,302.6 Granite Mortgages 03-1 plc 27 January 2003 1,816.7 1,718.8 Granite Mortgages 03-2 plc 21 May 2003 1,224.2 1,129.0 Granite Mortgages 03-3 plc 24 September 2003 1,154.1 1,058.9 Granite Mortgages 04-1 plc 28 January 2004 1,969.8 1,802.5 Granite Mortgages 04-2 plc 26 May 2004 2,199.4 2,044.6 Granite Mortgages 04-3 plc 22 September 2004 2,549.7 2,378.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-1 26 January 2005 3,426.4 3,254.6 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-2 25 May 2005 3,043.8 2,880.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-3 31 August 2005 515.5 511.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 05-4 21 September 2005 3,013.2 2,840.6 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-1 25 January 2006 5,289.7 5,048.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-2 24 May 2006 2,888.7 2,786.1 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-3 19 September 2006 5,643.1 5,400.3 Granite Master Issuer plc Series 06-4 29 November 2006 3,369.5 3,206.2 41,804.1 39,429.6 Retained interest in Granite Finance Trustees Limited 8,453.2 Less cash deposits held with Northern Rock plc 2,857.4 Total residential 47,399.9 39,429.6 Commercial: Dolerite Funding No.
1 plc 24 June 2002 86.7 97.0 Retained interest in Dolerite Mortgages Trustee Limited 48.5 Dolerite Funding No.
2 plc 18 July 2005 407.3 414.9 Retained interest in Dolerite Mortgages Trustee No.
2 Limited 198.1 Less cash deposits held with Northern Rock plc 40.7 Total commercial 699.9 511.9 Total 48,099.8 39,941.5 The retained interest in Granite Finance Trustees Limited represents Northern Rock plcs share of the assets held by Granite Finance Trustees Limited.
Gross assets securitised and notes in issue as presented above reconcile to amounts included in the consolidated balance sheet within loans and advances to customers and debt securities in issue as follows: Gross assets securitised Notes in issue m m Total as above 48,099.8 39,941.5 Less cash deposits with third parties included within loans and advances to banks 367.7 Less accrued interest on loan notes included within accruals and deferred income 267.1 Add loan notes issued by Whinstone entities see above 551.3 Total advances subject to securitisation see note 21 47,732.1 Total securitised notes as per consolidated balance sheet 40,225.7 23.
Covered bonds Included within loans and advances to customers not subject to securitisation are 10,389.6m 2006 7,283.1m of mortgage advances assigned to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, Northern Rock Covered Bond LLP.
These loans provide security to issues of covered bonds made by Northern Rock, which are included within debt securities in issue amounting to 8,938.1m 2006 6,201.8m.
Northern Rock retains substantially all the risks and rewards associated with these loans and therefore these transactions do not qualify for derecognition under IAS 39.
74 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 24.
Cash CDOs are classified as available for sale securities and have a carrying value of 660.1m 2006 600.5m.
Their fair value is based on quoted prices in an active market unless there is evidence that the investment is impaired in which case an impairment charge is calculated.
Impairment charges of 178.3m 2006 nil are attributable to cash CDOs which are classified as available for sale securities.
These impairment charges have been included within losses gains on available for sale securities in the Income Statement.
The impairment charge is based upon the Groups accounting policies and the requirements of IAS 39 to impair such securities to their quoted market price.
75 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 24.
Investment securities continued b Assets held at fair value through the income statement Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m At fair value Listed 67.8 80.6 67.8 80.6 Unlisted 38.2 39.7 38.2 39.7 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 Fixed rate Variable rate 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 Current Non-current 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 The movement in assets held at fair value through the income statement was as follows: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m At 1 January 120.3 120.3 Additions 0.1 121.3 0.1 121.3 Exchange differences 6.7 1.5 6.7 1.5 Net losses gains on changes in fair value 21.1 0.5 21.1 0.5 At 31 December 106.0 120.3 106.0 120.3 Certain securities which contain an embedded derivative are classified as held at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is based on quoted prices in an active market.
The Group has not reclassified any financial assets between those held at amortised cost and those held at fair value during the year 2006 nil.
Shares in group undertakings Company m Cost: At 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 85.0 The Companys interests in subsidiary undertakings are analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Credit institutions 50.0 50.0 Other 35.0 35.0 85.0 85.0 The principal subsidiaries of Northern Rock plc at 31 December 2007 are listed below, all of which operate in their country of incorporation or registration.
The following subsidiaries are directly held and wholly owned by the Company: Nature of business Country of incorporation Northern Rock Mortgage Indemnity Company Limited Provision of mortgage indemnity insurance Guernsey Northern Rock Guernsey Limited Retail deposit taker Guernsey 76 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 25.
Shares in group undertakings continued The following companies are SPEs established in connection with the Groups securitisation programme see note 22.
Although the Company has no direct or indirect ownership interest in these companies, they are regarded as legal subsidiaries under UK companies legislation.
This is because they are principally engaged in providing a source of long term funding to the Group, which in substance has the rights to all benefits from the activities of the SPEs.
They are therefore effectively controlled by the Group.
Nature of business Country of incorporation Granite Mortgages 00-2 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 01-1 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 02-2 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 03-1 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 03-2 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 03-3 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 04-1 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 04-2 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Mortgages 04-3 plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Master Issuer plc Issue of securitised notes England & Wales Granite Finance Trustees Limited Holding of interests in securitisations Jersey Granite Finance Funding Limited Holding company Jersey Granite Finance Funding No.
2 Limited Holding company England & Wales Whinstone Capital Management Limited Issue of credit linked notes Jersey Whinstone Capital Management 2 Limited Issue of credit linked notes Jersey The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2007 will be annexed to the Companys next Annual Return to be filed at Companies House.
Intangible assets Computer Group Goodwill software Total m m m 2007 Cost At 1 January 2007 30.7 119.5 150.2 Additions 32.7 32.7 At 31 December 2007 30.7 152.2 182.9 Impairment and amortisation At 1 January 2007 59.8 59.8 Amortisation charged in year 20.3 20.3 Impairment charges 7.0 7.0 At 31 December 2007 87.1 87.1 Net book amount: At 31 December 2007 30.7 65.1 95.8 Computer Goodwill software Total m m m 2006 Cost At 1 January 2006 30.7 97.1 127.8 Additions 22.4 22.4 At 31 December 2006 30.7 119.5 150.2 Impairment and amortisation At 1 January 2006 49.6 49.6 Amortisation charged in year 10.2 10.2 At 31 December 2006 59.8 59.8 Net book amount: At 31 December 2006 30.7 59.7 90.4 77 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 26.
Intangible assets continued Computer Company Goodwill software Total m m m 2007 Cost At 1 January 2007 119.5 119.5 Additions 32.7 32.7 At 31 December 2007 152.2 152.2 Impairment and amortisation At 1 January 2007 59.8 59.8 Amortisation charged in year 20.3 20.3 Impairment charges 7.0 7.0 At 31 December 2007 87.1 87.1 Net book amount: At 31 December 2007 65.1 65.1 Computer Goodwill software Total m m m 2006 Cost At 1 January 2006 97.1 97.1 Additions 22.4 22.4 At 31 December 2006 119.5 119.5 Impairment and amortisation At 1 January 2006 49.6 49.6 Amortisation charged in year 10.2 10.2 At 31 December 2006 59.8 59.8 Net book amount: At 31 December 2006 59.7 59.7 Impairment charges of 7.0m have arisen in 2007 2006 nil reflecting the changed circumstances of the Group.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Plant, equipment, fixtures, Assets in the Long Short fittings and course of Group Freehold leasehold leasehold motor vehicles construction Total 2007 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 86.1 19.9 7.4 157.3 18.7 289.4 Additions 4.8 0.4 13.8 47.2 66.2 Transfers 8.4 1.2 9.6 Disposals 7.4 0.9 8.3 At 31 December 2007 91.9 19.9 7.8 171.4 56.3 347.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2007 6.5 1.9 3.6 80.3 92.3 Charged in year 1.2 0.3 0.2 14.6 16.3 Impairment charges 56.3 56.3 Adjustment arising on disposals 0.9 0.7 1.6 At 31 December 2007 6.8 2.2 3.8 94.2 56.3 163.3 Net book amount: At 31 December 2007 85.1 17.7 4.0 77.2 184.0 78 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27.
Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings Plant, equipment, fixtures, Assets in the Long Short fittings and course of Freehold leasehold leasehold motor vehicles construction Total 2006 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 47.1 60.7 6.9 120.1 4.4 239.2 Additions 0.2 7.7 0.5 14.2 14.3 36.9 Disposals 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2006 47.3 68.4 7.4 133.5 18.7 275.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2006 5.0 3.6 3.3 59.0 70.9 Charged in year 0.3 1.0 0.3 18.0 19.6 Adjustment arising on disposals 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2006 5.3 4.6 3.6 76.4 89.9 Net book amount: At 31 December 2006 42.0 63.8 3.8 57.1 18.7 185.4 Impairment charges of 56.3m have arisen in 2007 2006 nil due primarily to changes in the expected use of assets in the course of construction.
The changed circumstances of the Group in 2007 has led to a cancellation of planned expansion and this has been further clarified by the revised business and funding plan to be implemented under temporary public ownership.
In addition to the impairment charges of 56.3m, the Group has also made provisions for onerous contracts in respect of assets in the course of construction of 12.9m relating to costs of completion in 2008 see note 33.
This gives impairments and provisions in relation to these assets of 69.2m.
Loans from central bank Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Amount due to Bank of England 26,930.0 26,930.0 Open market repo funding 1,543.0 1,543.0 28,473.0 28,473.0 As at 31 December 2007 the amount due to the Bank of England was repayable on 17 February 2008 and has subsequently been extended to 30 April 2008.
The loan is repayable on demand and is charged interest at a margin above the Official Bank Rate including an element of fixed PIK interest margin see note 34.
It consists of three facilities: a repo facility of 3,590.0m secured on investment securities, Facility A of 6,910.0m secured on residential mortgages, and Facility B, amounting to 16,430.0m, which is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the assets and undertakings of the Group that were not already encumbered under prior arrangements such as securitisation vehicles see note 22 and covered bonds see note 23.
The value of the security supporting the repo facility and Facility A was 15,126.5m at 31 December 2007.
In addition to the interest payable on the amount due to the Bank of England, the Group pays a guarantee fee to HM Treasury in respect of the Groups obligations that are guaranteed by HM Treasury.
As set out in note 45 the Bank of England and HM Treasury intend to make arrangments to extend the existing on demand facilities and provide an additional committed secured revolving loan reserve facility.
The open market repo funding represents repos with the Bank of England as part of their public open market operations and is secured against assets with a market value of 1,647.6m.
Because the mortgage loans do not qualify for derecognition from Northern Rock plcs balance sheet, the securitisation special purpose entities beneficial interests in the mortgage portfolios are represented by a deemed loan to Northern Rock plc.
This is equivalent in value to the beneficial interest in the mortgage portfolios plus associated inter group balances directly relating to the beneficial interests in the mortgage portfolios.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Onerous contracts see note 27 12.9 12.9 Deferred tax 45.5 19.7 58.4 32.6 The full movement in deferred income tax payable recoverable was as follows: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m At 1 January 59.5 57.5 89.5 93.0 Income statement charge 64.0 14.0 87.3 13.1 Appropriations credit 0.7 0.4 0.7 0.4 Deferred tax impact charged direct to equity revaluation reserve available for sale investments 20.9 7.5 1.8 1.1 hedging reserve cash flow hedges 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 actuarial gains losses charged to statement of recognised income and expense 16.3 4.9 16.3 4.9 share based payments 5.1 2.8 5.1 2.8 At 31 December 45.5 59.5 19.7 89.5 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Deferred income tax assets Pensions and other employee benefits 2.1 25.1 2.1 25.1 Provision for loan impairment 11.0 21.0 11.0 21.0 Derivatives and financial instruments 29.1 74.4 4.8 64.5 Other temporary differences 1.8 20.6 1.8 20.6 44.0 141.1 19.7 131.2 Deferred income tax liabilities Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 7.6 12.4 7.5 12.3 Available for sale securities 29.9 9.0 10.4 8.6 Derivatives and financial instruments 3.2 3.9 3.2 3.9 Cash flow hedge 2.8 3.4 2.8 3.4 Other temporary differences 46.0 52.9 15.5 13.5 89.5 81.6 39.4 41.7 Net deferred income tax liability asset 45.5 59.5 19.7 89.5 The amount of net deferred tax liability asset expected to settle after more than twelve months amounted to 3.4m 2006 64.5 m for the Group and 4.5m 2006 91.1 m for the Company.
IAS 12 requires that deferred tax assets should be recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Where the entity has a history of recent losses, deferred tax is only recognised to the extent that the entity has sufficient taxable temporary differences or there is convincing other evidence that sufficient taxable profits will be available.
A deferred tax asset should only be recognised to the extent that the Group will realise taxable profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
Accordingly, at 31 December 2007, the tax benefit of approximately 60.2m in the Group and 78.4m in the Company arising from gross deductible temporary differences of 215.1m in the Group and 280.2m in the Company have not been recognised which has resulted in a charge to both the income statement and the hedging reserve.
Under current tax legislation these unrecognised deductible temporary differences do not have an expiry date and can therefore be recognised in future as taxable profits arise.
Deferred income tax liabilities have not been established for tax that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups overseas subsidiaries.
Unremitted earnings at 31 December 2007 totalled 43.0m 2006 42.3m.
82 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 33.
Provisions for liabilities and charges continued The deferred tax charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2007 2006 m m Pensions and other employee benefits 1.7 12.7 Provision for loan impairment 10.0 2.9 Derivatives and financial instruments 45.3 7.6 Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 4.8 3.4 Other temporary differences 11.8 2.6 64.0 14.0 With effect from 1 April 2008, the UK mainstream rate of corporation tax will reduce to 28% from 30%.
As a result of this change the Groups net deferred tax liability has reduced by 2.3m and the Companys net deferred tax liability has reduced by 1.1m.
This reduction has been charged credited as follows: Group Company 2007 2007 m m Income statement see note 13 0.6 0.4 Appropriations 0.3 0.3 Available for sale investments reserve 2.1 0.7 Cash flow hedge reserve 0.2 0.2 Statement of recognised income and expense actuarial gains and losses 0.3 0.3 2.3 1.1 34.
Subordinated liabilities Group and Company 2007 2006 m m 5.625% Subordinated bonds due 2015 294.4 291.9 11.734% Subordinated loan 2016 25.9 26.3 5.75% Subordinated bonds due 2017 247.4 244.7 3 10 8% Subordinated bonds due 2018 50.6 50.7 3 9 8% Subordinated bonds due 2021 148.9 148.8 6.594% Perpetual fixed to floating rate subordinated notes 353.7 Bank of England PIK interest 40.9 1,161.8 762.4 The 5.625% subordinated bonds due 2015 are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 13 January 2010.
The 11.734% subordinated loan 2016 is repayable in five equal annual instalments from 2012 to 2016.
The 5.75% subordinated bonds due 2017 are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 28 February 2012.
3 The 10 8% subordinated bonds due 2018 are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 25 March 2018.
3 The 9 8% subordinated bonds due 2021 are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 17 October 2021.
The 6.594% Perpetual fixed to floating rate subordinated notes were issued on 25 June 2007.
These notes are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 28 June 2017.
The Bank of England PIK interest represents the amount of fixed margin payable to the Bank of England which is subordinated under the terms of the facility see note 28.
Repayment of this amount is not due until five years after repayment of the other Bank of England facilities.
Interest is rolled up and capitalised until all other facilities are repaid, after which it becomes repayable in cash.
Interest is payable on this liability at a fixed margin above the Official Bank Rate.
All subordinated liabilities other than the 6.594% perpetual fixed to floating rate notes which are denominated in US dollars are denominated in sterling.
Redemptions of any subordinated liabilities prior to their final maturity date are subject to obtaining prior consent of the Financial Services Authority.
The rights of repayment of holders of subordinated liabilities are subordinated to the claims of other creditors.
Tier one notes The tier one notes were issued for a value of 200m on 21 August 2002 and are undated.
They carry a coupon of 7.053% payable annually in arrears on 21 September each year.
At each payment date Northern Rock will decide whether to declare or defer the coupon, only if payment of the coupon would lead to breaches of regulatory capital requirements.
If Northern Rock decides to defer the coupon, this can then only be satisfied upon the date on which the issue is redeemed.
No interest will accrue on any deferred coupon.
If Northern Rock defers the coupon, it may not pay a dividend on any share or pay any coupon on the reserve capital instruments, nor redeem or repurchase any of its share capital or reserve capital instruments until it next makes a coupon payment for the tier one notes.
While Northern Rock is in temporary public ownership, deferred coupons can only be satisfied in accordance with the terms of Article 5 of The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008 which was made on 22 February 2008 pursuant to the Banking Special Provisions Act 2008.
Northern Rock has a call option after 25 years, which it can only exercise with the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
If the issue is not called, the coupon resets to yield 1.835% above 6-month LIBOR.
The full amount of tier one notes is permitted for inclusion within Tier 1 for regulatory capital purposes.
83 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 36.
Reserve capital instruments Reserve capital instruments were issued for a value of 200m in September 2000 and 100m in May 2001 and are undated.
They carry a coupon of 8.399% payable annually in arrears on 21 September each year.
At each payment date Northern Rock will decide whether to declare or defer the coupon.
If Northern Rock decides to declare the coupon, the holder will receive a cash payment equivalent to the coupon which will be achieved either by the payment of cash directly, or while Northern Rock is in temporary public ownership, as per the terms of Article 5 of The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008 which was made on 22 February 2008 pursuant to the Banking Special Provisions Act 2008.
If Northern Rock elects to defer the coupon, it may not declare or pay a dividend on any share until the deferred coupons are satisfied.
While Northern Rock is in temporary public ownership, deferred coupons and any interest accruing thereon can only be satisfied in accordance with the terms of Article 5 of the Transfer Order.
Northern Rock has a call option after 15 years, which it can only exercise with the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
If the issue is not called, the coupon resets to yield 4.725% above the prevailing 5-year benchmark Gilt rate.
The maximum amount of reserve capital instruments permitted to be included in Tier 1 for regulatory capital purposes is 15% of overall Tier 1 capital, as defined by the Financial Services Authority.
Any excess is allocated to Upper Tier 2 capital.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 32, reserve capital instruments are classified as non shareholders equity.
Coupons on these notes are treated as appropriations and amounted to 17.5m 2006 17.6m after tax credit of 7.7m 2006 7.6m.
Subordinated notes Group and Company 2007 2006 m m 5 12 8% Perpetual subordinated notes 19.8 19.8 8% Undated subordinated notes 62.1 62.1 6.75% Fixed rate step-up undated subordinated notes 195.4 195.4 Floating rate undated subordinated notes 66.0 66.0 5.6% Undated subordinated notes 393.2 393.2 736.5 736.5 In accordance with the requirements of IAS 32, undated subordinated liabilities are classified as non shareholders equity, as there is no contractual obligation to pay the interest coupon.
Coupons on these notes are treated as appropriations and amounted to 27.0m 2006 30.9m after tax credit of 11.7m 2006 13.2m.
5 The 12 8% perpetual subordinated notes were created on the transfer of business from Northern Rock Building Society and were issued to holders of Permanent Interest Bearing Shares of the Society.
The 8% undated subordinated notes are denominated in US dollars: the proceeds and coupon payments have been swapped into sterling.
The notes became redeemable on 15 June 2004 and may be subsequently redeemed in the ordinary course of business on coupon dates which fall on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September and 15 December.
The 6.75% fixed rate step-up undated subordinated notes are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 17 June 2024.
The floating rate undated subordinated notes are denominated in US dollars: the proceeds and coupon payments have been swapped into sterling.
They are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 23 February 2011.
Interest is payable at 1% above 3 month US$ LIBOR.
The 5.6% undated subordinated notes are denominated in US dollars: the proceeds and coupon payments have been swapped into sterling.
The notes are not redeemable in the ordinary course of business before 30 April 2014.
All subordinated notes, other than the 8% undated subordinated notes, the floating rate undated subordinated notes and the 5.6% undated subordinated notes are denominated in sterling.
Redemptions of any subordinated notes are at the issuers option only and are subject to obtaining prior consent of the Financial Services Authority.
The rights of repayment of holders of subordinated notes are subordinated to the claims of other creditors.
Called up share capital continued On 22 February 2008, under the terms of The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008, all shares in Northern Rock plc were transferred to the Treasury Solicitor as nominee of the Treasury.
Each Foundation Share was converted into and redesignated as one Ordinary Share in Northern Rock plc.
The Foundation Shares were held by The Northern Rock Foundation at 31 December 2006 and 2007.
These shares carried no rights to dividends but ranked pari passu with the Ordinary Shares in respect of other distributions and in the event of a winding up.
Because they carried no rights to dividends, they have been omitted in the calculation of earnings per share see note 16.
These shares did not confer any rights in relation to attendance or voting at any general meeting of the Company.
In June 2006 Northern Rock plc issued 400,000 perpetual non-cumulative callable 25p Preference Shares for 1,000 each.
Proceeds of 400m were received less 3.5m relating to issue costs.
Dividends on these shares are discretionary and, subject to Board approval, are payable annually on 4 July at a rate of 6.8509%.
Reserves Share premium account Group and Company Ordinary Preference m m At 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 6.8 396.4 Capital redemption reserve Group and Company m At 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 7.3 Other reserves a Revaluation reserve available for sale investments Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Balance at 1 January 1.3 26.0 2.3 7.9 Net losses gains from changes in fair value 269.2 7.0 339.4 6.5 Losses transferred to net income due to impairment 178.3 178.3 Net profits on disposal transferred to net income 41.7 45.1 40.1 21.1 Current income taxes 61.1 3.3 61.1 3.3 Deferred income taxes 23.0 7.5 2.5 1.1 Restatement of deferred tax liability from 30% 2.1 0.7 Balance at 31 December 93.7 1.3 144.2 2.3 b Hedging reserve cash flow hedges Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Balance at 1 January Amounts recognised in equity 48.7 48.7 Amounts transferred to interest payable 19.3 19.3 Current income taxes 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Deferred income taxes 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Restatement of deferred tax liability from 30% 0.2 0.2 Balance at 31 December 29.2 29.2 Total other reserves At 31 December 122.9 1.3 173.4 2.3 85 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 40.
Retained earnings Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Balance at 1 January 1,641.6 1,426.5 1,519.0 1,314.2 Loss profit for the year 243.5 394.5 263.8 384.2 Dividends paid see note 15 132.8 132.3 132.8 132.3 Adjustment in respect of own shares 34.5 20.6 34.5 20.6 Net actuarial gains losses from changes in fair value of pension scheme assets and liabilities 29.5 16.5 29.5 16.5 Current income taxes on actuarial gains 7.9 7.9 Deferred income taxes on actuarial gains losses 16.6 4.9 16.6 4.9 Deferred income taxes on actuarial gains restatement of deferred tax liability from 30% 0.3 0.3 Reallocation of other reserves 14.9 14.9 Balance at 31 December 1,251.9 1,641.6 1,109.0 1,519.0 The amounts deducted from the retained earnings in respect of own shares, which are held at cost, are as follows: Group and Company 2007 2006 m m Own shares in relation to employee share schemes 94.2 75.8 Movements in the amount deducted from retained earnings in respect of own shares are as follows: 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 75.8 42.5 Purchases of shares 31.6 45.3 Use of shares on exercise of employee options and for other employee share plans 13.2 12.0 94.2 75.8 The charge to retained earnings is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Value of employee services 0.5 13.9 Cash received on exercise of employee options and for other employee share plans 1.7 6.6 Deferred income tax impact of share based payments 5.1 2.8 Current income tax impact of share based payments 1.4 Purchase of shares 31.6 45.3 34.5 20.6 41.
Financial risk management A Financial Risk Management The principal financial risks that the Group manages are as follows: Credit risk: the risk arising from the possibility that the Group will incur losses from the failure of customers and counterparties to meet their obligations.
Market risk: the risk that changes in the level of interest rates, the rate of exchange between currencies or the price of securities or other financial contracts, including derivatives, will have an adverse impact on the results of operations or financial condition of the Group.
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Operational risk: the risk arising from the Groups internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
The Board of Directors is responsible for determining strategies and policies for the Group.
The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Board, is responsible for the definition and oversight of the Risk Management Framework RMF.
As such the Committee is charged with reviewing the key risks inherent in the business and assessing procedures for the identification, measurement and control of key risk exposures to ensure that they remain appropriate to the Groups business mix and strategic objectives.
It is also responsible for approving public disclosures of risk information and ensuring that the Group complies with regulatory requirements relating to risk management.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board, making recommendations as appropriate on all significant matters relating to the Groups risk policies.
The Board is responsible for the ultimate approval of risk limits but delegates the articulation of risk appetite to the Management Board Asset and Liability Committee Management Board.
The Management Board is responsible for strategic management of the RMF which includes the setting and review of risk appetite and, where appropriate, the taking of remedial action to ensure the Groups balance sheet and liquidity risk profiles remain in line with stated risk and strategic objectives.
Risk appetite is set for market and credit risk using limits at portfolio, product and counterparty level.
Liquidity risk is managed with reference to minimum funding requirements as set out in the liquidity risk policy.
Operational risk is managed at the business unit level, measuring performance against tolerance limits relating to failure rates.
Risk appetite is assessed against regular controls and stress testing to ensure that limits are not compromised and policies and procedures are reviewed annually to ensure they reflect changes in market conditions and product and service offerings.
86 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued The Director of Risk works with management to identify and assess the key risk exposures of existing and new business activities, and assists business functions to formulate and implement appropriate risk management policies, methodologies and infrastructure.
Each business area is responsible for the identification and quantification of its particular risk exposures and implementing risk management policies and procedures agreed by the Board.
The Audit Committee, independent from the Risk Committee and comprised of Non-Executive Directors of the Group, is responsible for reviewing the internal control systems on behalf of the Board.
This includes risk management systems and processes and the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
It is also responsible for consideration of the impact of new legislation on the Groups risk profile and risk management.
i Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss if another party fails to meet its financial obligations to the Group, including failing to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk occurs mainly in the Groups loans and investment assets, and in derivative contracts.
The objective of credit risk management is to enable the Group to maintain credit risk exposure in line with approved risk appetite.
Credit risk is managed through the establishment of appropriate lending policies by the Board which are implemented through the Risk Management Framework defined by the Risk Committee and monitored by the Management Board.
Credit Approval Process Retail Different credit approval processes exist for each customer type in order to ensure appropriate skills and resources are employed in credit assessment, approval and management.
The customer loan risk management process incorporates credit scoring systems to assess the credit risk associated with residential mortgage loans and unsecured loans, with operational limits set at both individual transaction and portfolio levels.
Credit risk is assessed both at the point of granting a loan, and also throughout the life of the loan.
Factors taken into consideration to mitigate the extent of credit risk at origination include: Emphasis on next time buyers and remortgage customers relative to first time buyers In our experience, customers who have proven mortgage repayment records offer a lower level of risk.
Loan size Our policy matches maximum LTV ratios with permissible property values.
Loans up to 300,000 attract a maximum LTV of 95%, whereas loans over 300,000 attract a maximum LTV of 90%.
Geographical spread Distribution channels for new residential mortgage lending are designed to avoid excessive reliance on any one geographical region.
Size of loan relative to the value of the property Our current policy is for at least 65% of new residential mortgage lending in any one year to have LTVs of 90% or lower.
Probability of Default PD and Loss Given Default LGD PD and LGD limits have been established for our lending portfolios to ensure that the percentage of exposures falling into the highest risk bands is limited.
Changes to lending criteria Following the introduction of separate credit scoring models for Standard, Together and Buy-To-Let lending in March 2007, and in response to a decline in the quality and number of applications, especially from September 2007 onwards, a number of actions have been taken in order to restrict lending to higher risk customers.
Changes included the restriction of maximum unsecured Together loans by way of credit score, a reduction in the maximum term for unsecured lending, a reduction in maximum LTV thresholds for new build flats and a reduction in income multiples for new residential lending.
Treasury Within the Group Treasury function, the overall policy is to minimise credit risk using operational credit limits, credit authorisation and credit control and review.
Credit limits authorised by Management Board and approved by the Board are established for specified counterparties and are continually monitored to ensure that actual exposures do not exceed authorised levels.
Group limits have been established to ensure that the Group does not exceed its exposure to either a single counterparty or group of closely related counterparties.
Country limits have been incorporated to ensure that the Group does not exceed its exposure in a geographical region.
Master netting agreements are in place with all derivative counterparties.
In addition most of the exposures created by derivatives are mitigated using collateral agreements negotiated with derivative counterparties.
Other techniques including margining, credit breaks, compounding, termination and credit derivatives are used periodically to mitigate the credit risk associated with particular transactions or group of transactions.
Credit Risk Models Credit risk models are used throughout the Group to support the analytical elements of the credit risk management framework, in particular the quantitative risk assessment part of the credit approval process, ongoing credit monitoring as well as portfolio level analysis and reporting.
Credit risk models used by the Group can be broadly grouped into two categories: PD customer credit grade these models assess the probability that a customer will fail to make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a time horizon.
Each customer is assigned a score which corresponds to a probability of default.
There are a number of different credit grading models in use across the Group, each of which considers particular customer characteristics.
The credit grading models use a combination of quantitative inputs, such as recent financial performance, credit bureau data and customer behaviour.
LGD these models estimate the expected loss that may be suffered by the Group on a credit facility in the event of default.
The Groups LGD models take into account the type of borrower and any security held.
87 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued Credit Risk Modelling Governance The Management Board has delegated the day to day governance of credit models to the Retail Credit Risk Approval Group and Treasury Credit Risk Approval Group.
These Groups comprise senior members from Credit, Group Risk, Treasury, Finance and Marketing and are responsible for: Establishing high level standards to which all credit risk models across the Group must adhere.
Approving all credit risk models prior to implementation and reviewing existing models on at least an annual basis.
Developing credit risk models appropriate for the types of borrower and obtaining approval from the Management Board for their implementation.
Validating the models on at least an annual basis and submitting documentation of these validations to the Management Board with appropriate recommendations on recalibration, where applicable.
Obtaining approval from the Management Board for any new methodology or parameter estimates used in existing credit risk models prior to implementation.
Changes to risk models in the period In March 2007 new models were introduced for use in the residential lending and personal credit portfolios.
Separate scorecards models using qualitative and quantitative data to accept reject lending applications, developed by the Credit Risk Modelling Group and approved by the Management Board, were implemented for Standard, Together and Buy To Let lending.
This enables separate factors to be used for each scorecard which further ensures that only suitable quality applicants are offered a loan.
Maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2007 2006 m m On balance sheet Cash and balances with central banks 190.2 956.0 Derivative financial instruments 2,241.0 871.3 Loans and advances to banks 1,292.5 5,621.3 Loans and advances to customers 98,834.6 86,796.1 Investment securities 6,108.7 6,630.4 108,667.0 100,875.1 Off balance sheet Loan commitments 6,010.8 5,017.6 Loans and advances by credit quality: 2007 Loans and Residential Commercial Unsecured Unsecured advances mortgage mortgage personal investment to banks loans loans loans loans m m m m m Neither past due nor impaired 1,292.5 88,480.5 305.4 6,797.8 295.3 Past due but not impaired 2,153.9 0.9 199.7 Impaired 143.3 9.6 353.1 95.1 1,292.5 90,777.7 315.9 7,350.6 390.4 2006 Loans and Residential Commercial Unsecured Unsecured advances mortgage mortgage personal investment to banks loans loans loans loans m m m m m Neither past due nor impaired 5,621.3 75,676.5 1,506.4 6,919.6 556.5 Past due but not impaired 1,672.3 23.5 180.1 Impaired 53.9 30.0 177.3 5,621.3 77,402.7 1,559.9 7,277.0 556.5 88 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued The credit quality of loans neither past due nor impaired may be assessed by reference to the internal ratings and probability of default bandings allocated to loans by the Companys internal credit assessment models as set out in the tables below: 2007 2006 Loans and Unsecured Loans and Unsecured advances investment advances investment to banks loans to banks loans m m m m AAA 11.4 AA 990.0 AA 448.0 776.2 AA 456.3 930.5 A 152.8 1,106.4 A 234.4 1,404.3 A 342.5 BBB 15.0 BBB 86.6 26.0 457.9 BBB- 1.0 208.7 16.0 92.9 BB 2.0 B 1.0 Not rated 5.7 1,292.5 295.3 5,621.3 556.5 2007 2006 Residential Unsecured Residential Unsecured mortgage personal mortgage personal loans loans loans loans m m m m PD band Risk 1 very low risk 73,780.2 4,315.4 60,899.6 4,208.7 Risk 2 low risk 6,767.4 1,641.6 8,053.4 1,894.9 Risk 3 medium risk 3,499.0 696.5 3,434.4 679.9 Risk 4 high risk 4,433.9 144.3 3,289.1 136.1 88,480.5 6,797.8 75,676.5 6,919.6 The Group does not operate internal risk assessment models for commercial mortgage loans due to the small scale of its commercial lending operations.
Details of the risk profiles of commercial mortgage lending can be found in the tables on page 92 relating to loan to value ratios and loan sizes.
Financial risk management continued Past due not impaired loans: 2007 Loans and Residential Commercial Unsecured advances mortgage mortgage personal to banks loans loans loans m m m m Up to one month In one to three months 1,616.8 171.7 In three to six months 344.8 0.9 13.8 Over six months 192.3 14.2 2,153.9 0.9 199.7 2006 Loans and Residential Commercial Unsecured advances mortgage mortgage personal to banks loans loans loans m m m m Up to one month In one to three months 1,316.4 3.7 152.7 In three to six months 275.0 16.8 14.1 Over six months 80.9 3.0 13.3 1,672.3 23.5 180.1 Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due or impaired at 31 December 2007 amounted to 193.2m 2006 211.5m.
These are all included within residential mortgage loans and include 10.3m 2006 9.0m of loans which prior to renegotiation were included within unsecured personal loans.
Collateral Due to the nature of the Groups exposures comprising primarily residential mortgages, the only collateral held against credit risk was that in respect of the counterparty risk arising on derivative transactions in the form of cash and in respect of residential and commercial lending in the form of mortgage interests over residential and commercial property.
Valuations on residential and commercial property are carried out on a quarterly basis.
Cash collateral held against counterparty credit risk at 31 December 2007 amounted to 391.7m 2006 396.4m, and residential and commercial property held amounted to 164,628.2m 2006 143,593.5m.
The table below shows an estimate of the fair value of collateral held against financial assets.
2007 Loans and Residential Commercial Derivative advances mortgage mortgage financial to banks loans loans instruments m m m m Neither past due nor impaired Property 161,084.4 419.4 Cash 391.7 Other Past due but not impaired Property 2,985.3 1.1 Cash Other Impaired Property 133.3 4.7 Cash Other 0.5 Total 164,203.0 425.7 391.7 90 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued 2006 Loans and Residential Commercial Derivative advances mortgage mortgage financial to banks loans loans instruments m m m m Neither past due nor impaired Property 138,751.7 2,395.3 Cash 396.4 Other Past due but not impaired Property 2,356.1 29.0 Cash Other Impaired Property 49.6 11.8 Cash Other 0.5 Total 141,157.4 2,436.6 396.4 Impairment The definition of impairment includes qualitative assessments and is administered differently according to the type of exposure.
Broadly, a loan or portfolio of loans is considered to be impaired if there is observable data at the balance sheet date that a combination of the following events has occurred: Significant financial difficulty of the customer.
A breach of contract, such as default or delinquency in interest or principal payments.
Northern Rock, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, granting to the customer a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider.
It becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of loans since the origination of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the group, including adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the group e. g. an increased number of delayed payments national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group e. g. an increase in the unemployment rate in the geographical area of the borrowers, a decrease in property prices for loans in the relevant area, or adverse changes in industry conditions that affect the borrowers in the group In the retail mortgage portfolio individual impairments occur in cases where the Group has taken possession of the property.
In such circumstances disposal of the property occurs as soon as possible as UK law does not permit the holding of this asset to wait for property values to change.
Moreover the property must be sold at fair value so discounted internal selling whereby the Group would class it as a rental property is not permitted.
Commercial loans usually require reporting by the borrower on specified financial conditions.
This allows management to monitor the financial condition of the borrower closely and because of the smaller number of loans and their greater balances relative to their retail counterparts each is individually assessed by the Monitoring and Review section of the Commercial Finance department.
Concentration risk Concentration risk is managed at portfolio, product, and counterparty levels.
This is carried out through the application of limits relating to geographical spread, the size of loan relative to property value at counterparty and portfolio levels and the concentration of borrowers in each risk band.
The following table breaks down the Groups main credit exposures by geographical region at their carrying amounts.
Exposures are allocated to regions based on the country of domicile of the counterparty: 2007 UK Europe US Other countries Total m m m m m Derivative financial instruments 639.6 954.5 494.3 152.6 2,241.0 Loans and advances to banks 958.1 223.7 110.7 1,292.5 Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage lending 90,777.7 90,777.7 Other secured lending 315.9 315.9 Unsecured lending 7,741.0 7,741.0 Available for sale securities 3,720.3 1,772.9 335.2 174.3 6,002.7 Assets held at fair value through the income statement 65.6 40.4 106.0 104,218.2 2,991.5 940.2 326.9 108,476.8 91 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
315.9 1,559.9 92 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued ii Market Risk Market risk is the risk of variability in the value of financial instruments caused by changes in market prices.
Use of Derivatives The Board has authorised the use of derivative instruments for the purpose of supporting the strategic and operational business activities of the Group and reducing the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
All use of derivative instruments within the Group is to hedge economic risk exposure, and the Group takes no speculative positions in derivatives.
The Group is authorised to use a number of derivative instruments to reduce interest rate risk and currency risk.
These include interest rate swaps, interest rate options, forward rate agreements, interest rate and bond futures, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Where either a balance sheet derivative instrument or an alternative balance sheet asset or liability could be used for a specific purpose, or where more than one derivative instrument could be used, the Group will select the instrument that optimises the following conditions: minimise capital utilisation: maximise income or minimise cost: maximise liquidity: minimise administrative and accounting complexity: and minimise the Groups tax liability.
The benefits of using derivative instruments are measured by examining the anticipated consequences of not hedging the perceived risk in terms of revenue or capital loss.
The vast majority of the Groups derivatives activity is contracted with banks and other financial institutions.
Analysis of Activities and Related Derivative Instruments The following table sets out activities undertaken by the Group and the related risks associated with such activities, and provides details of the types of derivatives available for use in economically managing such risks.
Activity Risk Type of derivative risk mitigation activity Variable rate lending Reduced profitability due to falls Receive fixed interest rate swaps in short-term interest rates Purchase interest rate options Sell forward rate agreements Fixed rate lending Sensitivity to increases in interest rates Pay fixed interest rate swaps Sensitivity to decreases in Purchase interest rate caps medium long-term interest rates, Impose early repayment penalty charges resulting in prepayments Fixed rate mortgage pipeline Sensitivity to increases in interest rates Pay fixed interest rate swaps Fixed rate retail and wholesale funding Sensitivity to falls in short-term interest rates Receive fixed interest rate swaps Fixed rate asset investments Sensitivity to increases in interest rates Pay fixed interest rate swaps Re-financing of wholesale funding Sensitivity to increase in interest rates Sell bond futures Purchase forward rate agreements Sell interest rate futures Investment in foreign currency assets Sensitivity to strengthening of sterling Cross-currency swaps against other currencies Foreign currency funding Issuance of bonds in foreign currencies Sensitivity to weakening of sterling against Cross-currency swaps other currencies Interest earned on foreign currency Sensitivity to strengthening of sterling Forward foreign exchange contracts denominated debt securities against other currencies Purchase currency options Interest rate risk The Group offers numerous banking, mortgage and savings products with varying interest rate features and maturities which create potential interest rate risk exposures.
Interest rate risk arises as a result of timing differences on the re-pricing of assets and liabilities, unexpected changes in the slope and shape of yield curves and changes in correlation of interest rates between different financial instruments often referred to as basis risk.
In addition to interest rate risk positions managed within controlled risk limits within the Group, structural interest rate risk arises in the Groups consolidated balance sheet as a result of fixed rate, variable rate and non interest bearing assets and liabilities.
Interest rate sensitivity refers to the relationship between interest rates and net interest income resulting from the periodic re-pricing of assets and liabilities.
Northern Rock also offers fixed rate residential mortgages and savings products on which the interest rate paid by or to the customer is fixed for an agreed period of time at the start of the contract.
Northern Rock reduces the mismatch of the expected maturity profiles of its interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities through the use of derivatives.
The risk of prepayment is additionally reduced by imposing penalty charges if the customers terminate their contracts early.
The Group uses a number of measures to monitor and control interest rate risk and sensitivity.
One such measure evaluates the difference in principal value between assets and liabilities repricing in various gap periods.
Risk weights are assigned to each gap period which reflect potential losses for a given change in rates, and based on these a capital allocation is calculated for each period.
The risk is controlled through setting maximum overall capital allocations, and individual capital allocations for each gap period.
93 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued The following table gives an analysis of the re-pricing periods of assets and liabilities on the Group balance sheet at 31 December.
Items are allocated to time bands in the table below by reference to the earlier of the next contractual interest rate re-pricing date and the residual maturity date.
Amounts shown in respect of loans and advances to customers include fair value adjustments of portfolio hedging.
Financial risk management continued A second control used measures earnings at risk from unmatched positions in fixed rate lending.
The Group imposes a limit on the value of such earnings that may be at risk, based upon various scenarios of adverse interest rate changes.
The sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates is measured by comparing forecast net interest income over a 12 month period under two interest rate scenarios, a 1% parallel increase and decrease in all yield curves.
Forecasts are based on measuring the sensitivity of net interest income for all on-balance sheet and derivative instruments while maintaining a consistent balance sheet size and structure throughout the simulation period.
Forecasts include the effect on net interest income of those instruments which have embedded optionality.
Forecasts also include other simplifying assumptions, such as no management action in response to a change in interest rates.
An immediate hypothetical 1% parallel increase and decrease in all yield curves on 31 December 2007 would result in a decrease of 25.0m 2006 118.9m and an increase of 22.8m 2006 113.6m, respectively, in planned net interest income for the twelve months to 31 December 2008.
A separate sensitivity calculation is carried out for the fixed mortgage book, with the parallel shift figure 81bps for 31 December 2007, 53 bps for 31 December 2006 based on the average of 3 month swap volatilities over the maturity profile of the portfolio.
It is this measure upon which specific counterparty and aggregated limits are managed for the fixed mortgage book.
Changes to market risk management in the period During 2007, interest rate sensitivity was split into two components: Actual based on completed fixed rate lending showing a sensitivity of 13.4 m at 31 December 2007, and Forecast based on potential exposures in currently open tranches which showed a sensitivity of 15.0 m at 31 December 2007.
This was added to the Management Board and Risk Committee reporting at the end of August and provides greater transparency throughout the life cycle of the trade.
Furthermore to enable intra-period comparisons a 25bp shift calculation for the fixed mortgage book has been introduced.
Market adjusted sensitivity Market 100bp 2007 81bp, adjusted 100bp sensitivity 2006 53 bp, sensitivity sensitivity fixed rate fixed rate 25bp, fixed rate all mortgages mortgages mortgages m m m m 2007 25.0 16.3 13.4 4.1 2006 118.9 157.5 75.2 39.4 iii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the mismatch in the cash flows generated from current and expected assets, liabilities and derivatives.
The Groups liquidity policy endeavours to ensure that it is able to meet retail withdrawals, repay wholesale funds as they fall due, and meet current lending requirements.
It also endeavours to ensure that the Group meets FSA liquidity rules, which require the Group to be able to meet its sterling obligations without recourse to the wholesale money markets for a period of at least five business days.
The Group has approved a Liquidity and Treasury Assets Policy Statement which the Board reviews annually, and on a more frequent basis if any significant changes are proposed or required.
As well as approving the types of liquid asset that may be held, the Liquidity and Treasury Assets Policy Statement sets out approved operational limits and establishes operational guidelines for managing the Groups liquidity risk.
The Treasury Director monitors liquidity on a daily basis, using daily cash flow liquidity and sterling stock liquidity reports, together with daily movement reports, portfolio analyses and maturity profiles.
The Management Board receives monthly liquidity reports analysing the liquid assets and showing the percentages of assets held in each asset type.
Concerns about credit exposure in financial markets began to surface in the summer of 2007 and credit spreads the cost of credit increased.
The announcement by a major US investment bank of difficulties in one of its investment conduits and subsequent similar announcements by other banks led to a serious disruption in the medium term funding markets on 9 August 2007.
Therefore an approach was made to the Bank of England to provide a loan facility to the Group.
The table below shows the liquidity situation before and following Bank of England funding.
Liquidity Summary 31 December 30 June 31 December Operational Limits 2007 2007 2006 Liquidity % of total assets Cash flow Minimum 8% 0.2% 8.0% 7.5% Sterling Stock 2.5% 5.1% 3.9% Investment Assets Maximum 20% 7.1% 7.5% 7.0% Treasury Liquid Assets 9.8% 20.6% 18.4% Other Liquid Assets 0.8% 1.2% 1.2% Total Liquidity 10.6% 21.8% 19.6% 95 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued Non derivative cash flows The table below analyses the Groups non derivative cash flows payable into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at balance sheet date to contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
These differ from balance sheet values due to the effects of discounting on certain balance sheet items and due to the inclusion of contractual future interest flows.
2007 After After After 3 months 6 months 1 year Within but within but within but within After 3 months 6 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Liabilities Loans from central bank 28,869.0 28,869.0 Deposits by banks 555.7 5.2 12.9 171.1 38.9 783.8 Customer accounts 8,237.5 1,059.5 1,724.2 945.5 11,966.7 Debt securities in issue 4,808.1 4,026.5 7,285.1 44,740.8 11,903.7 72,764.2 Subordinated liabilities 77.8 12.0 26.2 300.8 1,478.9 1,895.7 Tier one notes 14.1 56.4 411.6 482.1 42,548.1 5,103.2 9,062.5 46,214.6 13,833.1 116,761.5 2006 After After After 3 months 6 months 1 year Within but within but within but within After 3 months 6 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Liabilities Loans from central bank Deposits by banks 1,843.7 93.4 59.5 169.4 38.7 2,204.7 Customer accounts 20,387.8 1,552.2 3,821.4 1,856.6 27,618.0 Debt securities in issue 11,851.0 3,976.6 6,310.3 40,457.1 12,777.6 75,372.6 Subordinated liabilities 36.4 1.2 15.3 211.4 1,091.7 1,356.0 Tier one notes 14.1 56.4 425.7 496.2 34,118.9 5,623.4 10,220.6 42,750.9 14,333.7 107,047.5 Derivative cash flows The following table analyses cash flows for the Groups derivative financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Derivatives included within this analysis are single currency interest rate swaps.
2007 After After After 3 months 6 months 1 year Within but within but within but within After 3 months 6 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Derivatives in economic but not accounting hedges 2.5 1.4 0.2 10.0 5.3 19.0 Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships 42.8 5.3 65.5 355.6 5.0 388.6 40.3 6.7 65.3 365.6 10.3 407.6 2006 After After After 3 months 6 months 1 year Within but within but within but within After 3 months 6 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Derivatives in economic but not accounting hedges 20.5 18.5 33.3 2.9 7.6 10.4 Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships 17.5 16.5 24.5 9.1 0.2 18.4 38.0 35.0 57.8 6.2 7.4 28.8 96 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued The following table analyses cash flows for the Groups derivatives financial liabilities that will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Derivatives included within this analysis are cross currency interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
Operating lease commitments Minimum future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are summarised in the table below.
Capital commitments Capital commitments for the acquisition of buildings and equipment are summarised in the table below.
2007 Within In one to Over one year five years five years Total m m m m Loan commitments 1,596.9 10.0 4,403.9 6,010.8 Operating lease commitments Land and buildings 0.4 1.2 3.9 5.5 Other operating leases 4.8 4.8 Capital commitments 42.0 7.4 49.4 1,639.3 23.4 4,407.8 6,070.5 2006 Within In one to Over one year five years five years Total m m m m Loan commitments 2,076.3 10.0 2,931.3 5,017.6 Operating lease commitments Land and buildings 0.2 0.8 3.8 4.8 Other operating leases 4.0 4.0 Capital commitments 31.0 14.9 45.9 2,107.5 29.7 2,935.1 5,072.3 97 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued Currency risk Currency risk arises as a result of the Group having assets, liabilities and derivative items that are denominated in currencies other than sterling as a result of normal banking activities, including wholesale funding.
In addition to raising funds through sterling money markets, capital markets and the domestic retail savings market, the Group raises funds through issuing nonsterling denominated commercial paper, certificates of deposit, medium-term debt securities including securitised notes and covered bonds and retail funds.
The Groups policy is to mitigate any exchange rate exposures by using cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, or to match exposures with assets denominated in the same currency.
As a consequence of the funding problems experienced in September 2007 the Group has been unable to replace maturing funding with new funds in the same currency, and consequently there is some exposure to foreign currency movements.
Various actions have been taken, including the use of currency forward transactions, to mitigate the risk as far as possible.
At 31 December 2007, liabilities exceeded assets in US$, after taking into account foreign currency derivatives, by $996.8m 501.5m.
Assets exceeded liabilities denominated in at the same date by 934.1m 685.7m, after taking into account foreign currency derivatives.
As a result of these currency exposures, the Group had foreign currency gains of 130m in 2007.
The Group was sensitive to exchange rate gains and losses of 2.5m for each 1 movement in the :US$ exchange rate at 31 December 2007, and of 5.2m for each 1 movement in the : exchange rate at the same date.
The table below gives values of assets and liabilities at sterling carrying values denominated in different currencies at the balance sheet date.
Financial risk management continued Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at their fair value.
Assets are presented at bid prices, whereas offer prices are used for liabilities.
The accounting policy note sets out the key principles for estimating the fair values of financial instruments.
This note provides some additional information in respect of financial instruments carried at amortised cost.
Similar additional information in respect of instruments carried at fair value is included in the respective note for the instrument.
Carrying value Fair value 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Financial assets Cash and balances with central banks 190.2 956.0 190.2 956.0 Loans and advances to banks 1,292.5 5,621.3 1,292.5 5,621.3 Loans and advances to customers 98,834.6 86,796.1 95,831.5 85,094.7 Financial liabilities Loans from central bank 28,473.0 28,473.0 Deposits by banks 744.2 2,136.2 744.2 2,136.0 Customer accounts 11,562.8 26,867.6 11,574.3 26,866.2 Debt securities in issue 61,641.3 64,294.3 58,306.0 64,294.3 Subordinated liabilities 1,161.8 762.4 803.2 861.3 Tier one notes 207.6 209.4 130.3 229.6 Valuation methods for calculations of fair values in this table are set out below: Cash and balances with central banks Fair value approximates to carrying value because they have minimal credit losses and are either short term in nature or re-price frequently.
Loans and advances to banks Fair value was estimated by using discounted cash flows applying either market rates where practicable or rates offered by other financial institutions for loans with similar characteristics.
The fair value of floating rate placements, fixed rate placements with less than six months to maturity and overnight deposits is their carrying amount.
Loans and advances to customers The Group provides loans of varying rates and maturities to customers.
The fair value of loans with variable interest rates is considered to approximate to carrying value.
For loans with fixed interest rates, fair value was estimated by discounting cash flows using market rates or rates normally offered by the Group.
The increase in interest rates since the majority of these loans were originated means that their fair value is below their carrying value.
However, as the Groups policy is to hedge fixed rate loans in respect of interest rate risk see pages 69 and 70, this does not indicate that the Group has an exposure to this difference in value.
The carrying value of unsecured investment loans approximates the fair value due to the impairment of these assets in the year see note 10 to the value of the future expected cash flows.
Loans from central bank, deposits by banks and customer accounts Fair values of deposit liabilities repayable on demand or with variable interest rates are considered to approximate to carrying value.
The fair value of fixed interest deposits with less than six months to maturity is their carrying amount.
The fair value of all other deposit liabilities was estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates or rates currently offered by the Group for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and tier one notes Fair values are based on quoted prices where available, or by using discounted cash flows, applying market rates.
iv Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of opportunities foregone, reputational damage or financial losses, resulting from inadequacies or failures in internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
The three main categories of operational risk losses are direct financial losses, indirect losses due to impairment of the Groups reputation, and potential earnings foregone because of the lack of operational ability to process business.
The key issues covered by operational risk monitoring are systems and processes, technology, customers, external events and relationships, people, reconciliation and accounting, new activities and legal and compliance.
To minimise operational risk, the Group has implemented an overall Risk Policy and an Operational Risk Policy.
The Management Board and senior line managers are primarily responsible for ensuring effective operational risk management exists within their business areas in particular, the setting of tolerances, monitoring and reporting of operational risks.
Responsibility and authority to mitigate these risks is delegated to the relevant line management.
The funding problems suffered by the Group resulting from global credit issues necessitated an approach to the Bank of England for a loan facility.
This was followed by significant withdrawals by customers of their deposits and extensive media coverage of the situation.
The Directors believe that although reputational damage was suffered as a consequence of these events it is not irreversible.
Action has already been taken and will continue through 2008 to restore the reputation and brand of Northern Rock as a safe and secure home for retail deposits.
Evidence of the success of this strategy has already been seen with the increase in retail deposits since December 2007.
B Capital Management The Group manages its capital resources to meet the regulatory requirements established by its regulator, the FSA.
Capital adequacy is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Groups Management Board and Board, based on the regulations established by the FSA.
The required capital information is filed with the FSA on a quarterly basis.
Northern Rock filed its quarterly regulatory capital return for 31 March 2007 on 19 April 2007.
At that date, Northern Rocks regulatory capital was below the capital requirement imposed by the FSA by 85.5m, 0.2% below the Groups required capital holding.
Prior to 31 March 2007, Northern Rock had informed the FSA of its intention to issue Upper Tier 2 subordinated debt in the second quarter of 2007.
On 25 June 2007 Northern Rock issued $650m 328m equivalent of Upper Tier 2 subordinated debt.
On 29 June 2007, Northern Rock received notification of approval by the FSA of its Basle II waiver application.
Regulatory capital requirements have been determined under Basle II with effect from that date.
The Group has adopted the Retail Internal Ratings Based IRB approach for residential and personal unsecured loans, the Foundation IRB approach for treasury portfolios and the Standardised approach for commercial loans and operational risk.
99 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 41.
Financial risk management continued The Groups securitised assets are off balance sheet for regulatory capital purposes, however deductions from both Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital are made for the first loss piece retained by Northern Rock.
Deductions are also equally made from Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital in respect of the excess of expected losses over provisions, whereas under Basle I Tier 2 capital benefited from the add back of collective provisions.
The following table is presented in accordance with Basle II requirements and is derived from the regulatory balance sheet which differs in a number of respects from the statutory balance sheet.
2007 2006 Core Tier 1 Ordinary share capital 123.9 123.9 Share premium on ordinary share capital 6.8 6.8 Capital redemption reserve 7.3 7.3 Retained earnings 1,187.8 1,573.8 Pension scheme 9.4 11.3 Total Core Tier 1 capital 1,316.4 1,700.5 Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Share Preference share capital 0.1 0.1 Share premium on preference share capital 399.9 399.9 Tier one notes 207.7 209.6 Total Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares 607.7 609.6 Innovative Tier 1 Reserve capital instruments 300.0 300.0 Total Innovative Tier 1 capital 300.0 300.0 Regulatory deductions from Tier 1 625.8 611.3 Tier 1 capital after deductions 1,598.3 1,998.8 Upper Tier 2 Perpetual subordinated debt 1,028.8 679.5 Collectively assessed impairment allowance 0.4 8.9 Total Upper Tier 2 capital 1,029.2 688.4 Lower Tier 2 Term subordinated debt 811.9 766.6 Total Tier 2 capital 1,841.1 1,455.0 Regulatory deductions from Tier 2 445.8 471.3 Tier 2 capital after deductions 1,395.3 983.7 Deductions from totals of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 5.1 5.1 Total capital resources 2,988.5 2,977.4 Risk weighted assets 20,768.0 17,046.5 Tier 1 ratio 7.7% 11.7% Total capital 14.4% 17.5% 100 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 42.
Collateral pledged and received Northern Rock enters into securitisation transactions whereby portfolios of residential mortgage loans are sold or assigned to special purpose vehicles funded through the issue of mortgage backed securities.
Holders of these securities are only entitled to receive payments of interest and principal from the securitisation companies and have no other form of recourse.
At 31 December 2007, 49,326.1m of residential mortgage loans 2006 47,197.6m and 232.4m of cash 2006 367.7m were so assigned.
At 31 December 2006, 534.5m of commercial mortgage loans were also assigned under securitisation transactions.
This is detailed further in note 22.
Northern Rock also operates a covered bond programme, under which securities are issued to investors, secured on a ring-fenced pool of residential mortgage loans.
At 31 December 2007, 10,389.6m of residential mortgage loans 2006 7,283.1m had been pledged as security for covered bonds.
This is detailed further in note 23.
Cash collateral is given and received as part of normal derivative operations.
At 31 December 2007, 391.7m 2006 396.4m had been received and 482.5m 2006 364.9m had been pledged as cash collateral.
Northern Rock enters into sale and repurchase transactions, which are accounted for as secured borrowings or collateralised loans.
At the year end all outstanding transactions were with the Bank of England see note 28.
The carrying value of assets pledged as collateral under such transactions at 31 December 2007 was 6,869.1m 2006 nil and the amounts of collateral received was nil 2006 nil.
These transactions are entered into on terms that are usual and customary to repo transactions, standard lending, and securities borrowing and lending activity.
Related party transactions A number of banking transactions are entered into with related parties as part of normal banking business.
These include loans and deposits to Directors and key management personnel.
The volumes of such related party transactions, outstanding balances at the year end and related income and expense for the year are set out below.
2007 2006 m m Loans Loans outstanding at 1 January 8.7 5.4 Net amounts repaid advanced 2.1 3.3 Loans outstanding at 31 December 6.6 8.7 Interest income paid 0.4 0.3 Deposits Deposits outstanding at 1 January 4.4 1.8 Net amounts repaid deposited 1.7 2.6 Deposits outstanding at 31 December 2.7 4.4 Interest income earned 0.2 0.2 Remuneration 2007 2006 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 6.5 10.6 Post-employment benefits 1.0 0.7 Share-based payments 6.6 7.8 0.9 19.1 The credit in respect of share based payments in 2007 arises from the re-measurement of compensation expense of various employee share schemes due to non-market conditions not being met as referred to in note 8.
The Companys total contribution payable under deed of covenant to The Northern Rock Foundation for the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to 14.8m 2006 31.4m.
At 31 December 2007 the commitment in respect of amounts not yet paid was nil 2006 16.7m.
The covenant to The Northern Rock Foundation is calculated based on 5% of the Groups profit before tax for each half year period ending on 30 June and 31 December each year.
The total of 14.8m for 2007 represents the payment in respect of the six month period ended 30 June 2007.
No payment is due in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2007.
Following the transfer of the entire share capital of Northern Rock to the Treasury Solicitor, which included the conversion of the Foundation Shares to Ordinary Shares, the covenant to The Northern Rock Foundation was cancelled and replaced by a commitment to pay to the Foundation at least 15m per annum in each of 2008, 2009 and 2010.
The Company owns Northern Rock Guernsey Limited, which operates as a retail deposit taker.
The net funding repaid by the Company to Northern Rock Guernsey Limited during the year amounted to 1,594.7m 2006 141.1m borrowed from Northern Rock Guernsey Limited.
During the year the Company received nil 2006 0.2m from Northern Rock Mortgage Indemnity Company Limited in settlement of mortgage indemnity insurance claims.
During the year the Company borrowed a net 6,379.9m 2006 net 10,691.2m from its securitisation SPEs see note 22, being the net proceeds from securitisation transactions in the year.
On 7 November 2007 the Guernsey Financial Services Commission altered the terms of the licence granted to Northern Rock Mortgage Indemnity Company Limited to prevent it from repatriating funds to Northern Rock plc or any other Group company without its prior written approval.
101 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 44.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Cash and balances with central banks 121.9 876.3 121.9 876.3 Loans and advances to banks 1,278.5 5,247.3 1,032.1 4,832.8 Investment securities 35.5 194.1 194.1 1,435.9 6,317.7 1,154.0 5,903.2 45.
Events after the balance sheet date On 10 January 2008, the Company sold its Lifetime mortgage portfolio to JP Morgan at a premium of 2.25% to the balance sheet value.
Proceeds of the sale amounted to approximately 2.2bn and were used to reduce the level of the Bank of England facility.
On 22 February 2008 the entire share capital of the Company was transferred to the Treasury Solicitor in accordance with The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008 taking Northern Rock into a period of temporary public ownership.
Details of the impact of temporary public ownership are given throughout the Annual Report and Accounts as it affects the Companys operations and financial disclosures.
On 29 March 2008 the Bank of England and HM Treasury agreed to extend the existing on demand loan facilities as set out in note 28 above to 30 April 2008.
On 29 March 2008 the Bank of England and HM Treasury confirmed that they intend to make arrangements to provide an additional committed secured revolving loan reserve facility to the Company in addition to the existing facilities as set out in note 28 above.
Ultimate controlling party As a result of The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008, which transferred all shares in the Company to the Treasury Solicitor as nominee for HM Treasury on 22 February 2008, the Company considers Her Majestys Government to be the ultimate controlling party from that date.
102 [ IBC BLANK ] Northern Rock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 106363 ARA Cover Artwork 28 3 08 14:52 Page 1 Northern Rock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Northern Rock plc, Registered Office: Northern Rock House, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 4PL Registered in England and Wales under Company Number 3273685 www.
