Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities other than those held by long-term insurance funds.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and IFRICs.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held-for-sale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments see note 1e x, in accordance with IAS 27.
Judgments made by the directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 1 q. b Foreign currency translation i Foreign currency transactions The Groups presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
The Parent Company functional currency is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the initial recognition of the asset and liability and are not subsequently retranslated.
Exchange gains and losses on the translation and settlement during the period of foreign currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences for non-monetary items are recognised in equity when the changes in the fair value of the non-monetary item are recognised in equity, and in the income statement if the changes in fair value of the non-monetary item are recognised in the income statement.
ii Foreign investments The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004 were reset to zero.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121 1 Accounting policies continued c Group accounting i Subsidiary undertakings and special purpose entities Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Subsidiary undertakings include special purpose entities created to accomplish a narrow, well-defined objective, which may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entities, and where the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Company considers the existence and effect of potential voting rights currently exercisable or convertible when assessing whether it has control.
Entities which the Company controls by virtue of the Company retaining the majority of risks or benefits, are also included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings.
This includes consolidated special purpose entities and holdings in mutual funds.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal or control ceasing.
The consolidated financial statements do not include the wholly owned company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company that is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control Skandia Liv in such a way as to access the benefits usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those benefits accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy for other equity financial instruments.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and all profits and losses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
Unrealised losses are not eliminated to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
ii Associates and jointly controlled operations An associate is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the Group has significant influence but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and that is neither a subsidiary nor an investment in a joint venture.
A jointly controlled operation is a joint venture operated through a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement, whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over the activity.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates and jointly controlled operations are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The carrying amount of such investments is reduced to recognise any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where a Group enterprise transacts with an associate or jointly controlled operation of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate or jointly controlled operation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Investments in associates and jointly controlled operations, which are held with a view to subsequent resale are accounted for as non-current assets held-for-sale, and those held by policyholder long-term insurance funds are accounted for as financial assets fair valued through the income statement.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts Long-term business i Classification of contracts Contracts sold as long-term business with the exception of unit-linked assurance contracts are categorised into insurance contracts, contracts with a discretionary participation feature or investment contracts in accordance with the classification criteria set out in the following paragraphs.
For the Groups unit-linked assurance business, contracts are separated into an insurance component and an investment component known as unbundling, and each unbundled component is accounted for separately in accordance with the accounting policy for that component.
Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment contracts.
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder are classified as insurance contracts.
Insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rate, security price, security index, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract.
Contracts with a discretionary participating feature are those under which the policyholder holds a contractual right to receive additional payments as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments.
These additional payments, the amount or timing of which is at the Groups discretion, represent a significant portion of the total contractual payments and are contractually based on 1 the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract, 2 realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the Group or 3 the profit or loss of the Group.
Investment contracts with discretionary participating features are accounted for in the same manner as insurance contracts.
ii Premiums on long-term insurance Premiums and annuity considerations receivable under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are stated gross of commission, and exclude taxes and levies.
Premiums in respect of linked insurance contracts are recognised when the liability is established.
Premiums in respect of other insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature are recognised when due for payment.
Outward reinsurance premiums are recognised when due for payment.
Amounts received under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities.
iii Revenue on investment management service contracts Fees charged for investment management services provided in conjunction with an investment contract are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
Fees charged for investment management service contracts in our asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
iv Claims paid on long-term insurance Claims paid under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature include maturities, annuities, surrenders, death and disability payments.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued Long-term business continued v Insurance contract provisions Insurance contract provisions for African businesses have been computed using a gross premium valuation method.
Provisions in respect of African business have been made in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis as set out in the guidelines issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa in Professional Guidance Note PGN 104 2001.
Under this guideline, provisions are valued using realistic expectations of future experience, with margins for prudence and deferral of profit emergence.
Provisions for investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are also computed using the gross premium valuation method in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis.
Surplus allocated to policyholders but not yet distributed i. e. bonus smoothing reserve related to these contracts is included as a provision.
For the US business, the insurance contract provisions are calculated using the net premium method, based on assumptions as to investment yields, mortality, withdrawals and policyholder dividends.
For the term life products, the assumptions are set at the time the contracts are issued, whereas the assumptions are updated annually, based on experience for the annuity products.
Universal life and deferred annuity reserves are computed on the retrospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the cash value of the contracts.
Reserves on immediate annuities and guaranteed payments are computed on the prospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the present value of future benefit payments.
For other territories, the valuation bases adopted are in accordance with local actuarial practices and methodologies.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract are not separated and measured at fair value if the embedded derivative itself qualifies for recognition as an insurance contract.
In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and intangible assets is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability at discount rates appropriate to the business in question.
Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
The provision estimation techniques and assumptions are periodically reviewed, with any changes in estimates reflected in the income statement as they occur.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross insurance contract provisions and the related reinsurance recovery are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain insurance contract provisions in the South Africa long-term business, and DAC and PVIF assets in the United States long-term business, in respect of owner occupied properties or available-for-sale financial assets, in order for recognised unrealised gains or losses on those assets to affect the measurement of the insurance contract provisions, DAC or PVIF assets in the same way that recognised realised gains or losses do.
In respect of the South Africa long-term business, shadow accounting is applied to insurance contract provisions where the underlying measurement of the policyholder liability depends directly on the value of owner-occupied property and the unrealised gains and losses on such property, which are recognised in equity.
The shadow accounting adjustment to insurance contract provisions is recognised in equity to the extent that the unrealised gains or losses on owner-occupied property backing insurance contract provisions are also recognised directly in equity.
In respect of the United States long-term business, shadow accounting adjustments are made to the amortisation of DAC and PVIF assets in respect of unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets to the extent that those unrealised gains and losses would impact the calculation of DAC or PVIF amortisation were they recognised in income.
The shadow DAC and PVIF amortisation charge is recognised in equity in line with the unrealised gains and losses on the relevant financial assets until such time as those assets are sold or otherwise disposed of, at which point the accumulated amortisation recognised in equity is recycled to the income statement in the same way as the unrealised gains or losses on those financial assets.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued Long-term business continued vi Investment contract liabilities Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups US long-term non-linked business are measured at fair value.
Investment contract liabilities for non-linked business in the Groups other territories are measured at fair value, determined by reference to the fair value of the underlying assets.
For linked liabilities, including the deposit component of unbundled unit-linked assurance contracts, fair value is calculated as the account balance, which is the value of the units allocated to the policyholder, based on the bid price of the assets in the underlying fund adjusted for tax.
Investment contract liabilities measured at fair value are subject to a deposit floor such that the liability established cannot be less than the amount repayable on demand.
Derivatives embedded in investment contracts are separated and measured at fair value, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract liability is calculated on an amortised cost basis.
vii Acquisition costs Acquisition costs for insurance contracts comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the sale of insurance contracts.
As the gross premium valuation method used in African territories to determine insurance contract provisions makes implicit allowance for the deferral of acquisition costs, no explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is recognised in the balance sheet for the contracts issued in these areas.
For the US life insurance business, an explicit deferred acquisition cost asset has been established in the balance sheet.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period that profits on the related insurance policies are expected to emerge.
Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future profit margins.
Deferral of costs on insurance business in other territories is limited to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future margins.
viii Costs incurred in acquiring investment management service contracts Incremental costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service contract are recognised as an asset if they can be identified separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Costs attributable to investment management service contracts in the asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
General insurance business All classes of general insurance business are accounted for on an annual basis.
ix Premiums on general insurance Premiums stated gross of commissions exclude taxes and levies and are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
The proportion of the premiums written relating to periods of risk after the balance sheet date is carried forward to subsequent accounting periods as unearned premiums, so that earned premiums relate to risks carried during the accounting period.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related direct insurance.
x Claims on general insurance Claims incurred comprise the settlement and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising during the year and adjustments to prior year claim provisions.
Outstanding claims comprise claims incurred up to, but not paid, at the end of the accounting period, whether reported or not.
Outstanding claims do not include any provision for possible future claims where the claims arise under contracts not in existence at the balance sheet date.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its claim liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and the unearned premium reserve is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events, and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are reflected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used and estimates made are reviewed regularly.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued General insurance business continued xi Acquisition costs on general insurance Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
xii Reinsurance The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversification of its risks.
Assets, liabilities and income and expense arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expense from the related insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets.
Rights under contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are accounted for as financial instruments.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for the premiums on the related insurance contracts.
For general insurance business, reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpensed portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
The net amounts paid to a reinsurer at the inception of a contract may be less than the reinsurance assets recognised by the Group in respect of its rights under such contracts.
Any difference between the premium due to the reinsurer and the reinsurance asset recognised is included in the income statement in the period in which the reinsurance premium is due.
The amounts recognised as reinsurance assets are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect of the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets include recoveries due from reinsurance companies in respect of claims paid.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each balance sheet date.
An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
e Financial instruments i Recognition and fide-recognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group fide-recognises a financial asset when, and only when: The contractual rights to the cash flows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group: or It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset: or It transfers and no longer controls the financial asset, regardless of whether it has retained or transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
A financial liability is fide-recognised when and only when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the time frame established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Otherwise such transactions are treated as derivatives until settlement occurs.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued ii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
iii Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash flows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction, and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedge : or, 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
The Groups criteria for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted: The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation: The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis: and For cash flow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will carry profit and loss risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that specific hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk are recognised in equity.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost, as a result of previous hedge accounting, is amortised in the income statement from the date hedge accounting ceases, to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest rate method.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of a previously hedged available-for-sale security remains in retained earnings until the disposal of the equity security.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
iv Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in other financial and non-financial instruments other than investment contracts, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a stand alone basis, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in the income statement.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through the income statement and measured at fair value.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued v Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the balance sheet, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with the income statement effect of the hedged item.
vi Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as available-for-sale is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash flows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest rate basis.
Interest earned on financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement is presented as part of interest income.
vii Non-interest revenue Non-interest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commission and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below: Fees and commission income Loan origination fees for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Fees and commission arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in the income statement when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction or service will flow to the Group and the costs associated with the transaction or service can be measured reliably.
viii Financial assets Financial assets other than derivatives are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity or available-for-sale.
An analysis of the Groups balance sheet, showing the categorisation of financial assets, together with financial liabilities is set out in note 32.
Held-for-trading financial assets Held-for-trading financial assets are those that were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets designated as fair value through the income statement Financial assets that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract provisions or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholder funds.
All financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement, whether held-for-trading or designated, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market-related rate at the balance sheet date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on market-related measures at the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are included in Investment return non-banking or in Banking trading, investment and similar income as appropriate.
Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through the income statement is reported within Investment return non-banking and Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment income or Banking trading, investment and similar income, when a dividend is declared.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued viii Financial assets continued Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classified by the Group as fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Third party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial assets with fixed maturity dates which are quoted in an active market and where management has both the intent and the ability to hold the asset to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
Held-to-maturity financial assets are initially recognised at their fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently these assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective yield method, less any impairment write-downs.
Interest earned on held-to-maturity financial assets is reported within Investment income or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices are classified as available-for-sale.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at their fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Such assets are subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in equity.
When available-forsale financial assets are disposed the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.
When available-for-sale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Interest earned on available-for-sale financial assets is reported within Investment income or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
ix Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as appropriate when considering the fide-recognition criteria contained within IAS 39.
The securities that are retained in the financial statements are reflected as trading or investment securities and the counter party liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective yield method.
Securities lent to counter parties are also retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in the income statement using the effective yield method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
x Impairments of financial assets Loans and advances categorised as loans and receivables A provision for impairment of loans and advances categorised as loans and receivables is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due from the asset.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash flows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at inception.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date, but these components have not yet been specifically identified.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written-off against the related impairment provision.
Subsequent recoveries are credited to the income statement.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the write-down, the release of the impairment provision is credited to the income statement.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued x Impairments of financial assets continued Other financial assets carried at amortised cost, and available-for-sale financial assets A financial asset is deemed to be impaired when its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, and there is objective evidence to suggest that the impairment occurred subsequent to the initial recognition of the asset in the financial statements.
The amount of the impairment loss for other financial assets carried at amortised cost is calculated as being the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The recoverable amount, for assets classified as available-for-sale and measured at fair value, is the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of interest for a similar financial asset.
All such impairments are recognised in the income statement.
Where there is evidence of the reversal of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost, the release of the impairment allowance is credited to the income statement.
This is consistent with the initial recognition of impairment charges.
Where there is evidence of the reversal of the impairment of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale the release of the impairment allowance is credited to the available-for-sale reserve within equity.
Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, loans and receivables Impairment of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, loans and receivables are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other financial assets, and loans and receivables as set out above.
xi Financial liabilities other than investment contracts Financial liabilities, including borrowed funds, amounts owed to depositors and liabilities under acceptances, are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement or as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis and are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
For financial liabilities recorded at fair value and which contain a demand feature, the fair value of the liability is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Financial liabilities categorised at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally represented by the transaction price, less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Conversion options included within financial liabilities are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance sheet and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
f Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
ii Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, based on temporary differences.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is charged to the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised directly in equity, or a business combination that is an acquisition.
The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited directly to equity.
A deferred-tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available, against which the unutilised tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be used.
Deferred-tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised.
In certain circumstances, as permitted by accounting guidance, deferred tax balances are not recognised.
In particular where the liability relates to the initial recognition of goodwill, or transactions that are not a business combination and at the time of their occurrence affect neither accounting or taxable profit.
Note 21 includes further detail of circumstances in which the Group does not recognise temporary differences.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued g Intangible assets i Goodwill and goodwill impairment All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
At acquisition date, the Group recognises the fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria.
The cost of a business combination is the fair value of purchase consideration due at date of acquisition plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Contingent purchase consideration is recognised to the extent that it is probable and can be measured reliably.
Any minority interest in the acquiree is stated at the minoritys proportion of the net fair values of those items.
Any excess between the cost of the business combination and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is adjusted for any subsequent re-measurement of contingent purchase consideration.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
Purchased goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs, being the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
The directors annually test for impairment of each CGU containing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Where businesses are acquired as part of the same investment acquisition, these are combined for determining recoverability of the related goodwill.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
However, impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
ii Present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash flows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired.
This is calculated by performing a cash flow projection of the associated long-term fund and book of in-force policies in order to estimate future after tax profits attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These profits are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash flows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected profit recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is re-calculated at each balance sheet date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
iii Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash flows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Distribution channels 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Brand 15 20 years The estimated life is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 1 Accounting policies continued g Intangible assets continued iv Internally developed software Internally developed software is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Such assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software is recognised in the balance sheet if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the software will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised subject to meeting specific criteria, set out in the relevant accounting guidance.
The main criteria being that future economic benefits can be identified as a result of the development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between two and five years.
v Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
h Impairment all assets other than goodwill and financial instruments The Group assesses all assets other than goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life on an ongoing basis for indications of impairment or whether a previously recognised impairment loss should be reversed.
If such indicators are found to exist, then detailed impairment testing is carried out.
Impairments where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount and the reversal of previously recognised impairments are recognised in the income statement.
i Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Owner-occupied property is stated at revalued amounts, being fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and equipment, principally computer equipment, motor vehicles, fixtures and furniture, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1, individual terms of property, plant and equipment held at 1 January 2004 were measured at fair value, which was deemed to be their cost at that date.
ii Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is measurable and will result in probable future economic benefits.
Expenditure incurred to replace a separate component of an item of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment is capitalised to the cost of the item of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment and the component replaced is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense when incurred.
iii Revaluation of owner-occupied property Owner-occupied property is valued on the same basis as investment property.
When an individual property is revalued, any increase in its carrying amount as a result of the revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same property previously recognised as an expense in the income statement.
When the value of an individual property is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease is charged against any related credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect of that property.
However, to the extent that it exceeds any surplus, it is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
iv fide-recognition On fide-recognition of an owner-occupied property or item of plant and equipment, any gain or loss on disposal, determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement in the period of the fide-recognition.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any surplus in the revaluation reserve in respect of the individual property is transferred directly to retained earnings.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued i Property, plant and equipment continued v Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment that are accounted for separately.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any accumulated depreciation at revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the property concerned and the net amount restated to the revalued amount.
Subsequent depreciation charges are adjusted based on the revalued amount for each property.
Any difference between the depreciation charge on the revalued amount and that which would have been charged under historic cost is transferred, net of any related deferred tax, between the revaluation reserve and retained earnings as the property is utilised.
The maximum estimated useful lives are as follows: Computer equipment 5 years Computer software 3 years Motor vehicles 6 years Fixtures and furniture 10 years Leasehold property 20 years Freehold property 50 years vi Leases Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance leases Lease agreements where the Group substantially accepts the risks and rewards of the ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the outstanding balance of the liability.
Finance lease obligations, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period according to the effective interest method.
Where applicable, assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
j Investment properties Investment property is real estate held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation.
It does not include real estate held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Internal professional valuers perform valuations annually.
For practical reasons, valuations are carried out on a cyclical basis over a twelve-month period due to the large number of properties involved.
External valuations are obtained once every three years on a cyclical basis.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet date an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to reflect any material changes in value.
The valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows.
Vacant land, land holdings and residential flats are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
Near vacant properties are valued at land value less the estimated cost of demolition.
Surpluses and deficits arising from changes in fair value are reflected in the income statement.
For properties reclassified during the year from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, any revaluation gain arising is initially recognised in the income statement to the extent that impairment losses were previously recognised.
Any residual excess is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation deficits are recognised in the revaluation reserve to the extent of previously recognised gains and any residual deficit is accounted for in the income statement.
Investment properties that are reclassified to owner-occupied property are revalued at the date of transfer, with any difference being taken to the income statement.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 1 Accounting policies continued k Finance costs Finance costs relate to the Groups borrowed funds that are directly controlled by, or managed on behalf of, Old Mutual plc.
These include interest payable, and gains and losses on revaluation of these funds and on those derivative instruments which are used to hedge these funds.
l Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
Where the proceeds of disposal are expected to exceed the book value of the related net assets no impairment loss is recognised on the reclassifications of assets as held-for-sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held-for-sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is defined as a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held-for-sale and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
m Pension plans and retirement benefits Defined benefit and defined contribution schemes have been established for eligible employees of the Group with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The projected unit credit method is used to determine the defined benefit obligations based on actuarial assessments, which incorporate not only the pension obligations known on the balance sheet date but also information relevant to their expected future development.
The discount rates used are determined based on the yields for investment grade corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement over a period of time to the extent that they exceed 10 per cent of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the present value of the gross defined benefit obligations in the scheme.
Such actuarial gains and losses are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the scheme.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 were recognised in equity at that date.
Where the corridor calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, Group companies make provision for post retirement medical and housing benefits for eligible employees.
Non-pension post retirement benefits are accounted for according to their nature, either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans.
The expected costs of post retirement benefits that are defined benefit plans in nature are accounted for in the same manner as for defined benefit pension plans.
n Share-based payments i Equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in an equity-settled transaction with employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value of those equity instruments is measured at grant date.
If the equity instruments granted vest immediately and the employee is not required to complete a specified period of service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those instruments, the services received are recognised in full on grant date in the income statement for the period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Where the equity instruments do not vest until the employee has completed a specified period of service, it is assumed that the services rendered by the employee, as consideration for those equity instruments, will be received in the future, during the vesting period.
These services are accounted for in the income statement as they are rendered during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued n Share-based payments continued ii Cash-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in cash-settled transactions with employees and the liability to pay for those services, are recognised at fair value as the employee renders services.
Until the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
iii Measurement of fair value of equity instruments granted The equity instruments granted by the Group are measured at fair value at the measurement date using standard option pricing valuation models.
The valuation technique is consistent with generally acceptable valuation methodologies for pricing financial instruments, and incorporates all factors and assumptions that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price of the equity instruments.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the provisions of this accounting policy have not been applied to equity-settled grants made on or before 7 November 2002, or awards granted after that date but which had vested prior to 1 January 2005. o Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise balances with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition and which are highly liquid and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
This includes: cash and balances with Central Banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, amounts due from other banks and trading securities.
It excludes cash balances held in policyholder investment portfolios.
p Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur, and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the effect of discounting is material, provisions are discounted and the discount rate used is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Specific policies: A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract: A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the Group has approved a detailed formal plan and raised a valid expectation among those parties directly affected, that the plan will be carried out either by having begun implementation or by publicly announcing the plans main features: and No provision is made for future operating costs or losses.
q Critical accounting estimates and judgments Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgments or assessments.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates are life insurance contract provisions, determination of the fair value for financial assets and liabilities, impairment charges, present values of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business, other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, deferred acquisition costs, deferred taxes and the non consolidation of the Groups wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking.
Insurance contract accounting is discussed in more detail in note 1 d, and further detail of the key assumptions made in determining insurance contract provisions is included in note 24.
Accounting for deferred acquisition cost assets is also discussed in note 1 d. The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are classified and accounted for in accordance with the policies set out in note 1 e. They are valued on the basis of listed market prices in so far as this is possible.
If prices are not readily determinable, fair value is based either on internal valuation models or management estimates of amounts that could be realised under current market conditions.
Fair values of certain financial instruments including over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads, and volatility factors.
Accounting for present values of acquired in-force insurance and investment contract business, together with other intangibles acquired as part of a business combination are discussed in note 1 g. Assets are subject to regular impairment reviews as required.
Impairments are measured at the difference between the cost or amortised cost of a particular asset and the current fair value or recoverable amount.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement in the period in which they occur.
The Groups policy in relation to impairment testing in respect of Goodwill is detailed in note 1 g. The policy in respect of investment securities and purchased loans and receivables is described in note 1 e. The accounting policy for deferred tax is detailed in note 1 f. The Group does not consolidate its wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking, Skandia Liv.
For more information refer to the Subsidiary Undertakings and Special Purpose Entities Accounting Policy, note 1 c i.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135 1 Accounting policies continued r Segment reporting The Groups results are analysed across four geographic segments.
This segmentation is consistent with the Groups management structure and represents the basis on which the entity has been organised.
The geographic segments are South Africa, United States, Europe and Other.
The South Africa segment principally comprises the African life and general insurance and banking businesses.
The United States segment comprises the US life and US asset management businesses.
The Europe segment comprises the operations in the UK, Nordic, Continental Europe and Latin America covering life, asset management and banking businesses.
The Other segment comprises the Asia Pacific and Bermuda asset management businesses.
Other shareholders income expenses, together with finance costs, are shown as Corporate.
These geographic segments represent the components of the entity that management considers when making operating decisions and it is the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by the chief operating decision maker in the Group.
The information reflected in note 3 reflects the measures of profit and loss, assets and liabilities for each segment reported as regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
There are no differences between the measurement of the assets and liabilities reflected in the primary statements and that reported for the segments and discontinued operations.
There are four principal lines of business generating revenue.
These lines of business are based on the products or groups of similar products that are provided within each of the geographical segments.
The lines of business are long-term business, asset management, banking and general insurance, the latter being treated as discontinued in the current financial year.
See note 33 for further information on discontinued operations.
Assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for inter-segment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
Given the nature of the operations, there are no major customers within any of the segments.
Reallocations of certain comparative segment information have been made following changes in the Groups management reporting structure, effective 1 January 2007.
There was no impact on net profit or net assets.
s Treasury shares Upon consolidation, the balance sheet and income statement are adjusted for own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOPs, policyholder funds of African life companies and those held in Black Economic Empowerment Trusts consolidated within the Groups financial statements.
Own shares are deducted from equity to eliminate the inter-company portion.
On purchase, the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from equity.
Subsequently, any gain or loss on the sale or cancellation of an entitys own equity instruments is recognised in equity.
Any net income in relation to own shares, both dividends received and unrealised losses on own shares are eliminated before stating the profit for the year.
Dividends paid in respect of these shares are also excluded when determining the retained profit for the year.
In calculating the basic earnings per share, the exclusion of income in respect of own shares from the income statement requires the exclusion of treasury shares from the weighted average number of shares.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the number of shares included in the weighted average reflects the potential issue in respect of the treasury shares.
t Share capital Ordinary and preference share capital including perpetual preferred callable securities are classified as equity if they are non-redeemable by the shareholder and any dividends are discretionary and coupon payments are recognised as distributions within equity.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Coupon payments thereon are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 1 Accounting policies continued u Dividends Dividends payable to holders of equity instruments are recognised in the period in which they are authorised or approved.
Interim dividends payable to holders of the Groups ordinary share capital are authorised by the directors of the Parent Company, the final dividend typically requires shareholder approval.
v Balance sheet liquidity analysis The Groups balance sheet is presented in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following additional balance sheet analyses are given to describe how balance sheet lines are categorised between current and non-current balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following balance sheet captions are generally classified as current cash and cash equivalents, non-current assets held-for-sale, client indebtedness for acceptances, current tax receivable, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and non-current liabilities held-for-sale.
The following balances are generally classified as non-current goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with central banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and jointly controlled operations, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, third party interests in the consolidation of funds, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and non-current portions reinsurers shares of long-term and general insurance business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, long-term business and general insurance policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and non-current portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
w Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2007 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations effective for the first time in the current accounting year, and which are relevant to the Group, have been adopted in these financial statements: IAS 1 amendment.
Additional disclosures in relation to an entitys capital effective 1 January 2007 : IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 supersedes IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions and the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
In particular, IFRS 7 requires additional disclosure over and above that required by IAS 32 in respect of 1 the significance of financial instruments for an entitys financial position and performance, and 2 the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments.
IFRS 7 also amends the disclosure requirements of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
Further information on the impact of the introduction of IFRS 7 is given in note 50. x Standards and interpretations early adopted in the 2007 annual financial statements The following standards and interpretations have been early adopted in these financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating segments effective 1 January 2009 has been early adopted in these financial statements.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The key change from IAS 14 is to require segment information to be presented based on internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker.
The amount of each operating segment item reported is the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance.
Other than limited additional disclosures, there were no significant impacts in respect of the Groups identification, recognition or measurement of its reportable segments as a result of the transitioning to IFRS 8, as the Groups existing structures were in line with both reporting standards.
Other than in respect of minor changes to reporting structures during the financial year, no reclassifications were required to comparative information due to the adoption of IFRS 8 in the Groups identification of its reportable segments or in the measurement of segment information.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 11 clarifies the treatment required in group and subsidiary financial statements of certain share-based transactions entered into by holding companies or subsidiaries, principally in respect of accounting for entitlements to equity instruments of the holding company.
The principles set out in the interpretation had no impact on the Groups existing accounting policy on share-based payments and limited impact in the Parent Companys financial statements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 1 Accounting policies continued y Future standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations not early adopted in the 2007 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, were issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted in these financial statements: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements effective date 1 January 2009.
The changes include a comprehensive revision of primary statements, and include a requirement to introduce a statement of comprehensive income.
There will be some limited presentational changes as a result of the introduction of this standard but no changes in measurement or recognition.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for periods commencing after 1 July 2008 addresses accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits to customers who buy other goods or services.
Specifically, it explains how such entities should account for their obligations to provide free or discounted goods or services awards to customers who redeem award credits.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective date 1 January 2008 clarifies when refunds or reductions in future contributions in relation to defined benefit assets should be regarded as available and provides guidance on the impact of minimum funding requirements MFR on such assets.
It also addresses when a MFR might give rise to a liability.
IFRIC 14 will become mandatory for the Groups 2008 financial statements, with retrospective application required.
The Group has not yet determined the potential effect of the interpretation.
The above amendments, which will be adopted in 2009, will predominantly require changes in disclosure and presentation, and are not expected to result in changes to the Groups recognition and measurement accounting policies.
2 Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to Sterling are: Income statement Balance sheet average rate closing rate 31 December 2007 Rand 14.1109 13.6043 US Dollars 2.0014 1.9827 Swedish Kronor 13.5253 12.8320 Euro 1.4602 1.3596 31 December 2006 Rand 12.4740 13.6746 US Dollars 1.8429 1.9569 1 Swedish Kronor 13.5918 13.3924 1 Euro 1.4671 1.4837 1 February 2006 Swedish Kronor 13.5347 1 The 2006 income statement rate applied in respect of Skandia is an eleven month average rate.
3 Segment information i Basis of segmentation The Groups results are analysed across four geographic segments.
This is consistent with the way the Group manages the business.
The four geographic segments, based on the Groups management structure, are South Africa, United States, Europe and Other.
Within the geographic segments, the Group generates revenue from four principal lines of business: long-term business, asset management, banking and general insurance.
For IFRS purposes, the general insurance line of business has been discontinued during the financial year, however for the purposes of reporting adjusted operating profit, the result of the general insurance line of business is included in the following analyses.
The income statement information that follows is based on the Groups geographical management structure with revenue and expenses allocated to the lines of business.
This follows the same format as the Consolidated income statement and is reconciled to Adjusted operating profit which is one of the key measures reported to the Groups chief operating decision makers for their consideration in the allocation of resources to and the review of performance of the segments.
The Group utilises additional measures to assess the performance of each of the segments.
These measures are also presented and include an analysis of gross earned premiums and funds under management.
Additional performance measures considered by management in assessing the performance of the segments can be found in the European Embedded Value information presented on pages 238 to 261.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement segment information year ended 31 December 2007 South Africa United States Long-term Asset Long-term Asset business management Banking business management Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,563 3,148 Outward reinsurance 41 88 Net earned premiums 1,522 3,060 Investment return non-banking 3,203 89 528 13 Banking interest and similar income 2,979 Banking trading, investment and similar income 167 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 108 161 474 570 Other income 77 36 52 9 12 Share of associated undertakings profit after tax 11 8 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 1 8 Inter-segment revenues 144 49 39 12 Total revenue 5,065 335 3,720 3,597 615 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 2,981 3,480 Reinsurance recoveries 39 95 Net claims and benefits incurred 2,942 3,385 Change in investment contract liabilities 767 Losses on loans and advances 154 Finance costs Banking interest payable and similar expenses 1,928 Fee and commission expense, and other acquisition costs 153 102 10 Other operating and administrative expenses 410 153 940 54 424 Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Goodwill impairment Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles 24 Inter-segment expenses 63 84 75 13 Total expenses 4,335 237 3,097 3,578 434 Profit before tax for the financial year excluding policyholder tax 730 98 623 19 181 Adjusting items 222 1 79 19 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 63 Adjusted operating profit before tax 445 98 622 98 162 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement segment information year ended 31 December 2007 continued Europe Other Group m Inter-segment Total Long-term Asset Asset revenues continuing Discontinued business management Banking management Corporate expense operations operations Total 230 4,941 625 5,566 72 201 92 293 158 4,740 533 5,273 2,019 8 211 6,071 56 6,127 211 3,190 3,190 3 170 170 730 345 27 42 2,457 2,457 8 23 2 3 23 245 245 3 17 1 1 16 25 25 178 27 13 2 15 512 33 33 3,093 395 272 44 6 278 16,864 622 17,486 151 6,612 390 7,002 50 184 52 236 101 6,428 338 6,766 1,851 2,618 2,618 3 157 157 50 50 50 125 2,053 2,053 201 103 11 70 650 110 760 468 137 80 30 56 8 2,760 53 2,813 156 156 156 3 3 326 5 5 360 360 73 132 32 1 3 512 36 36 3,020 377 245 42 109 278 15,196 540 15,736 73 18 27 2 103 1,668 82 1,750 152 8 13 57 73 7 66 3 60 60 228 26 14 2 160 1,535 89 1,624 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement segment information year ended 31 December 2006 South Africa United States Long-term Asset Long-term Asset business management Banking business management Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,628 2,128 Outward reinsurance 33 81 Net earned premiums 1,595 2,047 Investment return non-banking 5,207 43 736 17 Banking interest and similar income 2,285 Banking trading, investment and similar income 195 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 107 153 499 465 Other income 73 28 36 21 Share of associated undertakings profit after tax 6 6 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 17 68 Inter-segment revenues 96 53 8 14 Total revenue 7,084 277 3,046 2,783 585 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 4,706 2,667 Reinsurance recoveries 21 164 Net claims and benefits incurred 4,685 2,503 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,096 Losses on loans and advances 120 Finance costs Banking interest payable and similar expenses 1,386 Fee and commission expense, and other acquisition costs 152 4 128 19 Other operating and administrative expenses 532 115 967 24 359 Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Goodwill impairment 5 Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles 22 Inter-segment expenses 65 62 23 15 Total expenses 6,530 181 2,501 2,692 378 Profit before tax for the financial year excluding policyholder tax 554 96 545 91 207 Adjusting items 23 11 33 67 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 125 Adjusted operating profit before tax 406 96 534 124 140 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement segment information year ended 31 December 2006 continued Europe Other Group m Inter-segment Total Long-term Asset Asset revenues continuing Discontinued Total business management Banking management Corporate expense operations operations Restated 270 4,026 687 4,713 64 178 89 267 206 3,848 598 4,446 3,791 6 2 7 379 10,188 101 10,289 142 2,427 2,427 14 181 181 613 269 24 41 2,171 2,171 31 3 6 1 119 5 307 307 6 6 6 85 85 180 39 33 1 11 435 4,821 311 191 39 137 61 19,213 699 19,912 181 7,554 404 7,958 31 216 29 245 150 7,338 375 7,713 3,559 4,655 4,655 3 123 123 91 91 91 75 1,461 1,461 163 57 9 60 592 125 717 414 125 71 25 47 36 2,715 58 2,773 278 278 278 5 3 8 349 7 1 379 379 89 132 31 4 8 435 6 6 4,724 321 181 38 146 61 17,631 567 18,198 97 10 10 1 9 1,582 132 1,714 246 9 1 154 34 50 16 114 239 239 229 1 11 1 163 1,377 82 1,459 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 3 Segment information continued iii Gross earned premiums m South United Year ended 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business insurance contracts 1,048 3,148 230 4,426 Long-term business investment contracts with discretionary participation features 515 515 Gross earned premiums 1,563 3,148 230 4,941 Long-term business other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,315 177 8,450 9,942 m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business insurance contracts 1,183 2,128 270 3,581 Long-term business investment contracts with discretionary participation features 445 445 Gross earned premiums 1,628 2,128 270 4,026 Long-term business other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,493 216 7,889 9,598 iv Funds under management m South United At 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business policyholder funds 22,469 14,822 44,674 122 82,087 Unit trusts and mutual funds 6,693 5,260 14,416 2,535 28,904 Third party client funds 10,517 149,850 3,833 164,200 Total client funds under management 39,679 169,932 59,090 6,490 275,191 Shareholder funds 2,042 191 1,454 3,687 Total funds under management 41,721 170,123 60,544 6,490 278,878 m South United Total At 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Restated Long-term business policyholder funds 19,937 13,704 39,113 41 72,795 Unit trusts and mutual funds 5,183 3,131 13,156 2,544 24,014 Third party client funds 12,950 122,945 3,167 139,062 Total client funds under management 38,070 139,780 52,269 5,752 235,871 Shareholder funds 2,066 200 1,296 3,562 Total funds under management 40,136 139,980 53,565 5,752 239,433 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 143 3 Segment information continued v Balance sheet information m Inter-segment South United Unallocated assets At 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other to segment liabilities Total Assets Long-term business 27,356 15,969 55,607 2,430 96,502 Asset management 1,817 1,640 498 311 334 3,932 Banking 35,575 4,475 142 39,908 General insurance 641 52 589 Other shareholders assets 1,276 638 257 65 1,722 Investments in associated undertakings 87 9 3 81 Consolidated total assets 66,752 17,609 61,218 302 254 2,893 142,734 Liabilities Long-term business 27,086 14,754 51,598 620 92,818 Asset management 1,709 361 229 34 1,129 1,204 Banking 33,082 4,169 512 36,739 General insurance 394 4 390 Other shareholders liabilities 246 791 1,577 628 1,986 Consolidated total liabilities 62,517 15,115 56,787 34 1,577 2,893 133,137 Net assets Long-term business 491 1,215 4,009 1,810 3,905 Asset management 108 1,279 326 277 795 2,785 Banking 2,493 306 370 3,169 General insurance 247 48 199 Other shareholders net assets 1,030 153 701 693 869 Investments in associated undertakings 87 9 3 81 4,456 2,494 4,488 268 698 11,008 Debt 221 57 1,133 1,411 Consolidated net assets 4,235 2,494 4,431 268 1,831 9,597 The net assets of South African businesses are stated after eliminating investments in Group equity and debt instruments of 493 million 2006: 560 million held in policyholder funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by the Groups banking subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
All South Africa debt relates to long-term business.
All other debt relates to other shareholders net assets.
The general insurance operations are classified as discontinued.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 3 Segment information continued v Balance sheet information continued m Inter-segment South United Unallocated assets At 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other to segment liabilities Total Assets Long-term business 24,983 15,370 49,653 2,199 87,807 Asset management 1,647 1,511 458 281 433 3,464 Banking 30,723 4,325 14 35,034 General insurance 616 32 584 Other shareholders assets 991 611 263 571 852 1,584 Investments in associated undertakings 70 13 83 Consolidated total assets 59,030 16,881 55,047 557 571 3,530 128,556 Liabilities Long-term business 24,536 14,113 45,803 324 84,128 Asset management 1,407 424 445 23 1,062 1,237 Banking 28,680 4,046 509 32,217 General insurance 354 354 Other shareholders liabilities 397 579 65 2,451 1,635 1,857 Consolidated total liabilities 55,374 14,537 50,873 88 2,451 3,530 119,793 Net assets Long-term business 685 1,257 3,850 1,875 3,917 Asset management 240 1,087 13 258 629 2,227 Banking 2,043 279 495 2,817 General insurance 262 32 230 Other shareholders net assets 594 171 198 938 783 808 Investments in associated undertakings 70 13 83 3,894 2,344 4,313 469 938 10,082 Debt 238 139 942 1,319 Consolidated net assets 3,656 2,344 4,174 469 1,880 8,763 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 145 4 Operating profit adjusting items i Summary of adjusting items In determining the adjusted operating profit of the Group adjustments are made to profit before tax to reflect the directors view of the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
These items are summarised below: m South United Year ended 31 December 2007 Notes Africa States Europe Other Total Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 4 ii 24 218 242 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 18 16 25 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 4 iv 195 55 55 195 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 4 v 14 14 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 4 vi 40 40 Closure of unclaimed shares trusts 4 vii 13 12 1 US Asset Management equity plans and minority holders 4 viii 11 11 Fair value gains on Group debt instruments 4 ix 29 29 Total adjusting items 223 60 147 57 73 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 101 30 51 9 29 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 iii 23 11 12 Total adjusting items after tax and minority interests 145 41 96 48 56 m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Notes Africa States Europe Other Total Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 4 ii 5 22 256 283 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 17 68 85 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 4 iv 285 12 273 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 4 v 148 148 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 4 vi 39 39 Closure of unclaimed shares trusts 4 vii 115 115 Total adjusting items 34 34 256 154 34 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 32 18 46 4 28 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 iii 15 7 22 Total adjusting items after tax and minority interests 17 52 203 150 16 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued ii Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting In applying acquisition accounting in accordance with IFRS deferred acquisition costs and deferred revenue are not recognised.
These are reversed in the acquisition balance sheet and replaced by goodwill, other intangible assets and the value of the acquired present value of in-force business acquired PVIF.
In determining its adjusted operating profit the Group recognises deferred revenue and acquisition costs in relation to policies sold by acquired businesses pre-acquisition, and excludes the impairment of goodwill and the amortisation of acquired other intangibles and acquired PVIF.
Goodwill impairment and acquisition accounting adjustments to adjusted operating profit are summarised below: m South United Year ended 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF Long-term business 24 266 290 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue Long-term business 112 112 Asset management 6 6 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets Long-term business 60 60 Asset management 5 5 Banking 5 5 Release of acquisition balance sheet provisions Long-term business 7 7 Asset management 3 3 Banking 2 2 24 218 242 m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF Long-term business 22 293 315 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue Long-term business 103 103 Asset management 2 2 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets Long-term business 56 56 Asset management 7 7 Banking 1 1 Goodwill impairment Banking 5 5 5 22 256 283 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 147 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued iii Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments During 2007 the Europe banking subsidiary sold its Danish operation.
An accounting profit on sale of 16 million was recognised.
During the year, the US Asset Management business disposed of its interests in certain affiliate asset managers, resulting in a profit on disposal of 8 million.
In 2006 profits on sale of 68 million were recognised in relation to unrelated affiliate disposals.
During 2006, the Groups South African banking subsidiary disposed of an IT finance solutions business resulting in a profit on disposal of 17 million.
Profits on the disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments are analysed below: m South United Year ended 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other Total Asset management 8 8 Banking 1 16 17 m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Asset management 68 68 Banking 17 17 iv Long-term investment return Profit before tax includes actual investment returns earned on the shareholder assets of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit is stated after recalculating shareholder asset investment returns based on a long-term investment return rate.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns are short-term fluctuations in investment return.
Long-term rates of return are based on achieved real rates of return appropriate to the underlying asset base, adjusted for current inflation expectations and consensus economic investment forecasts, and are reviewed frequently, usually annually, for appropriateness.
These rates of return have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating profit are consistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long-term.
For South Africa long-term business, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund flows.
For US and Europe long-term businesses, the return is applied to average investible assets.
For all businesses mis-matches attributed to the timing of the recognition of policyholder tax and related receipts from policyholders are eliminated with reference to the historic net gains losses in respect of this item.
% Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Long-term investment rates 2007 2006 South Africa long-term business 15.6 11.3 United States long-term business 5.7 5.9 Europe long-term business 4.9 4.6 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued iv Long-term investment return continued Analysis of short-term fluctuations in investment return m South United Year ended 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Total Long-term business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 416 527 61 1,004 Less: long-term investment return 221 582 6 809 Total short-term fluctuations in investment return 195 55 55 195 The actual investment return attributable to shareholders for the US long-term business reflects total investment income, as a distinction is not drawn between shareholder and policyholder funds.
m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Total Long-term business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 434 620 5 1,059 Less: long-term investment return 149 632 5 786 Total short-term fluctuations in investment return 285 12 273 v Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instrument held in life funds Adjusted operating profit includes investment returns on policyholder investments in Group equity and debt instruments by the Groups life funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares, and the subordinated liabilities and ordinary securities of the Groups South Africa banking subsidiary.
These investment returns are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at profit before tax, but are included in adjusted operating profit.
In 2007 the investment return adjustment decreased adjusted operating profit by 14 million 2006: increase of 148 million.
vi Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities Dividends declared to the holders of the Groups perpetual preferred callable securities were 40 million in the year ended 31 December 2007 2006: 39 million.
These are recognised in finance costs on an accruals basis for the purpose of determining adjusted operating profit.
In the IFRS financial statements this cost is recognised in equity.
vii Closure of unclaimed shares trusts During 2006 Old Mutual plc announced that the Old Mutual South Africa Unclaimed Shares Trust UST together with similar trusts set up in Namibia, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Bermuda, would be closed and that the gross proceeds from the sale of unclaimed shares by these trusts should be paid to Old Mutual plc.
Under the terms of the deeds establishing the USTs, the trustees of the USTs were required, following their termination, to liquidate the residual assets of the USTs and to distribute them in accordance with the directions given by Old Mutual plc.
Following discussions with the South African National Treasury, the Company announced on 30 January 2007 that it intended, subject to shareholders approval subsequently granted at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2007, to use substantially all of the proceeds realised to discharge late claims in cash for a further period of three years to 31 August 2009, to fund good causes in the jurisdictions of the trust concerned or to enhance benefits for certain specific small policyholders of the Groups South African and Namibian life businesses.
The principal impact of the closure of these trusts was reflected in the 2006 Group Financial Statements.
Income of 115 million was recognised by Old Mutual plc and expenses of 115 million were recognised by the Groups South Africa long-term business.
The income related to the anticipated receipt of sales proceeds from the trusts.
The expenses related to anticipated cost of the proposals to discharge the Groups obligations following the closure of the trusts.
This item had no impact on the profit before tax or adjusted operating profit of the Group, and was excluded from the adjusted operating profit of Old Mutual plc and the Groups South Africa long-term business.
During 2007 payments of the proceeds have been made by the trusts to Old Mutual plc.
These payments resulted in the realisation of foreign exchange losses.
These losses amounted to 14 million in the year ended 31 December 2007.
Furthermore, as a result of remeasurement of certain provisions for obligations established during 2006, an amount of 13 million has been released.
Consistent with the treatment of the original sales proceeds and costs in 2006, these amounts have been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 149 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued viii US Asset Management equity plans and minority interests During 2007, US Asset Management has entered into a number of new long-term incentive arrangements with its asset management affiliates.
In accordance with IFRS requirements the cost of these schemes is disclosed as being attributable to minority interests.
However, this is treated as a compensation expense in determining adjusted operating profit.
The amount recognised in relation to this in 2007 was 11 million 2006: nil.
During 2007 the Group has issued put options to employees as part of some of its US affiliate incentive schemes.
The impact of revaluing these instruments is recognised in accordance with IFRS, but excluded from adjusted operating profit.
As at 31 December 2007 these instruments were revalued, the impact of which was less than 1 million.
At 31 December 2006 no such instruments existed.
ix Fair value gains on Group debt instruments The significant widening of credit spreads in the second half of 2007 has led to a reduction in the market price of the Groups debt instruments.
This decline in market price has resulted in a gain of 29 million being recorded in the Groups income statement for those instruments that are recorded at fair value.
In the directors view, this gain is not reflective of the underlying performance of the Group and will reverse over time.
The gain has therefore been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
5 Income tax expense i Analysis of total income tax expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Current tax United Kingdom tax Corporation tax 436 61 Double tax relief 399 26 Overseas tax South Africa 379 239 United States 26 16 Europe 73 54 Secondary Tax on Companies STC 65 11 Prior year adjustments 25 3 Total current tax 555 352 Deferred tax Origination of temporary differences 58 213 Changes in tax rates bases 13 Recognition of deferred tax assets 5 2 Total deferred tax 76 211 Total income tax expense 479 563 ii Reconciliation of total income tax expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Profit before tax 1,668 1,582 Tax at standard rate of 30% 2006: 30% 500 474 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 20 19 Untaxed and low taxed income 154 133 Disallowable expenses 88 59 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 52 19 STC 47 11 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 51 173 Other 19 21 Total income tax expense 479 563 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 5 Income tax expense continued iii Income tax on adjusted operating profit m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Income tax expense 479 563 Tax on adjusting items Impact of acquisition accounting 65 52 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 10 8 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 40 28 Income tax attributable to policyholders returns 60 239 Secondary Tax on Companies STC on dividends paid 35 Tax on dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities recognised in equity 9 4 Income tax on adjusted operating profit 390 352 6 Minority interests Income statement i Minority interests ordinary shares The minority interest charge to profit for the financial year has been calculated on the basis of the Groups effective ownership of the subsidiaries in which it does not own 100 per cent of the ordinary equity.
The principal subsidiaries where a minority exists are the Groups banking and general insurance businesses in South Africa.
For the year ended 31 December 2007 the minority interest attributable to ordinary shares was 224 million 2006: 207 million.
ii Minority interests preferred securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 13 13 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 5 5 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 1 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 30 32 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 1 Minority interest preferred securities 50 50 iii Minority interests adjusted operating profit The following table reconciles minority interests share of profit for the financial year to minority interests share of adjusted operating profit: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of minority interests share of profit for the financial year 2007 2006 The minority interest charge is analysed as follows: Minority interest ordinary shares 224 207 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 11 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 7 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 9 Income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries 29 22 Income attributable to US Asset Management minority holdings 11 Minority interest share of adjusted operating profit 242 224 The Group uses revised weighted average effective ownership interests when calculating the minority interest applicable to the adjusted operating profit of its South Africa banking and general insurance businesses.
This reflects the legal ownership of these businesses following the implementation for Black Economic Empowerment BEE schemes in 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting rules the shares issued for BEE purposes are deemed to be, in substance, options.
Therefore the effective ownership interest reflected in arriving at profit after tax in the consolidated income statement is lower than that applied in arriving at adjusted operating profit after tax.
In 2007 the increase in adjusted operating profit attributable to minority interests as a result of this was 29 million 2006: 22 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 151 7 Earnings and earnings per share i Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 929 781 Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 43 55 Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 972 836 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 31 35 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 941 801 Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 40 million in 2007 are stated net of tax credits of 9 million.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,492 5,339 Shares held in charitable foundations 20 19 Shares held in ESOP trusts 61 98 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,411 5,222 Shares held in life funds 282 292 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 235 225 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,894 4,705 Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations pence 18.3 15.8 Basic earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations pence 0.9 1.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 19.2 17.0 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,894 4,705 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts 63 62 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 235 225 5,192 4,992 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations pence 17.3 15.0 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations pence 0.8 1.1 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 18.1 16.1 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 7 Earnings and earnings per share continued ii Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share is determined based on adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit represents the directors view of the underlying performance of the Group.
For long-term and general insurance business adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes defined as minority interests in accordance with IFRS.
For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, revaluations of put options related to long-term incentive schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities, income expense from closure of unclaimed shares trusts and fair value gains on Group debt instruments.
The reconciliation of profit for the financial year to adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: m Continuing Discontinued Year ended 31 December 2007 operations operations Total Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 929 43 972 Adjusting items 73 7 66 Tax on adjusting items 29 3 26 Minority interest on adjusting items 12 6 18 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 873 41 914 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,411 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 16.1 0.8 16.9 m Continuing Discontinued Year ended 31 December 2006 operations operations Total Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 781 55 836 Adjusting items 34 50 16 Tax on adjusting items 28 15 13 Minority interest on adjusting items 22 5 17 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 765 25 790 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,222 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 14.6 0.5 15.1 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 8 Investment return non-banking m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Interest and similar income Loans and advances 10 33 Investments and securities 1,559 1,482 Government and  securities 323 389 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 731 673 Pooled investments 57 49 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 271 193 Other 177 178 Cash and cash equivalents 100 95 Total interest and similar income 1,669 1,610 Dividend income investments and securities 377 494 Equity securities 334 475 Pooled investments 43 19 Rental income from investment property 57 62 Fair value gains and losses recognised in income 3,962 8,037 Investments and securities 3,732 8,112 Derivatives 44 214 Investment property 264 139 Other 10 Foreign currency gains losses 6 15 Total investment return recognised in income 6,071 10,188 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Included in interest and similar income above are the following amounts: Total interest income for assets not at fair value through profit or loss 620 824 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held for trading including derivatives 48 214 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 3,685 8,128 Available for sale financial assets 36 16 Loans and receivables 1 Investment property 264 139 3,962 8,037 Realised fair value gains and losses included in the above 5,928 4,560 The fair value gains losses on available for sale financial assets shown above reflect the amount previously recognised as unrealised within the Available for sale reserve in equity that have been recycled to the income statement on disposal of the particular assets.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 154 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 9 Banking interest and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Interest and similar income Loans and advances 2,942 2,203 Mortgage loans 1,531 1,121 Finance lease and instalment debtors 457 350 Credit cards 71 47 Bills and acceptances 7 10 Overdrafts 122 100 Term loans and other 754 575 Investments and securities 244 224 Government and  securities 137 119 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 107 103 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2 Cash and cash equivalents 4 Total interest and similar income 3,190 2,427 Included in banking interest and similar income above are the following amounts: Total interest income for assets not at fair value through profit or loss 2,880 2,114 10 Banking trading, investment and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Dividend income investments and securities 11 14 Equity securities 10 10 Pooled investments 1 4 Rental income from investment property 4 4 Exchange and other non-interest income 62 41 Derivative income 45 18 Exchange 3 Securities dealing 16 22 Fair value gains losses 1 2 Net trading income 93 122 Foreign exchange 51 47 Debt securities 24 44 Equities 16 31 Other 2 Total banking trading, investment and similar income 170 181 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held for trading including derivatives 20 45 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 20 46 Loans and receivables 1 1 1 2 Realised fair value gains included in the above 47 75 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 155 11 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities m Long-term Asset Year ended 31 December 2007 business management Banking Total Fee and commission income 977 1,007 501 2,485 Transaction and performance fees 132 132 Change in deferred revenue 139 21 160 838 1,118 501 2,457 Year ended 31 December 2006 Fee and commission income 853 881 522 2,256 Transaction and performance fees 86 86 Change in deferred revenue 133 38 171 720 929 522 2,171 The amounts shown above for asset management relate to fees earned on trust and fiduciary activities where the group holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers.
12 Finance costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 Note 2007 Restated Interest payable on borrowed funds 86 78 Senior debt and term loans 25 44 Subordinated debt 60 36 Other 1 2 Fair value gains and losses on borrowed funds 37 8 Borrowed funds 29 7 Derivative instruments 8 15 Foreign currency gains and losses on borrowed funds Reserve movements relating to debt and derivative instruments 1 5 Total finance costs excluding banking activities 50 91 Finance costs from banking activities 13 68 71 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 29 51 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held for trading including derivatives 8 16 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 29 7 37 9 Realised fair value gains and losses included in the above Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 156 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 13 Banking interest payable and similar expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Amounts owed to bank depositors 1,854 1,321 Deposits and loan accounts 1,216 924 Current and savings accounts 203 100 Negotiable certificates of deposit 367 226 Long-term debt instruments 68 71 Other liabilities 199 140 Total interest payable and similar expenses 2,053 1,461 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 1,723 1,421 14 Fee and commission expense, and other acquisition costs m Long-term Asset Year ended 31 December 2007 business management Total Fees and commission expense 846 210 1,056 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 457 32 489 Other acquisition costs 68 15 83 457 193 650 Year ended 31 December 2006 Fees and commission expense 830 194 1,024 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 464 46 510 Other acquisition costs 78 78 444 148 592 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 157 15 Other operating and administrative expenses i Other operating and administrative expenses m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2007 2006 Staff costs 15 ii 1,573 1,442 Depreciation 72 68 Software costs 29 7 Operating lease rentals banking 41 47 Operating lease rentals non-banking 49 38 Amortisation of intangibles 340 414 Impairment of goodwill 3 14 ii Staff costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2007 2006 Staff costs Wages and salaries 971 946 Social security costs 52 53 Retirement obligations Defined contribution plans 45 38 Defined benefit plans 3 Other retirement benefits 4 4 Bonus and incentive remuneration 358 292 Share-based payments Cash settled 2 25 Equity settled 42 ix 38 32 Termination benefits 3 1 Long-term employee benefits 4 10 Other 103 41 1,573 1,442 Number The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: Long-term business 20,188 21,713 Banking 26,314 23,581 Asset management 5,257 5,028 General insurance discontinued operations 2,723 2,709 Other 148 121 54,630 53,152 The discontinued operations operating and administrative expenses included in the above are as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Staff costs 68 44 Depreciation 5 4 Software costs 3 Operating lease rentals non-banking 3 3 Amortisation of intangibles 3 4 Impairment of goodwill 3 4 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 158 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 15 Other operating and administrative expenses continued iii Fees to Groups auditors Included in other operating expenses are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Fees for audit services Group 1.3 0.9 Subsidiaries 8.4 9.2 Pension schemes 0.3 0.1 Total audit fees 10.0 10.2 Fees for non-audit services Taxation 0.3 0.6 Information technology 0.1 Valuation and actuarial 0.7 0.2 Corporate finance transactions 0.1 0.2 Any other services provided by auditors 2.8 2.3 Total non-audit services 3.9 3.4 Total Group auditors remuneration 13.9 13.6 In addition to the above, fees of 2.5 million 2006: 2.9 million were payable to other auditors in respect of joint audit arrangements of Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary in South Africa.
The discontinued operations fees paid for audit services included in the above are 0.4 million 2006: 0.5million.
16 Acquisition of subsidiaries The Company acquired control of  Skandia publ Skandia in January 2006 when it obtained 72.1 per cent of Skandias shares.
Further acceptances were received and settled on 17 February 2006 17.4 per cent and on 23 March 2006 8.7 per cent.
Following further permitted open market purchases, the Groups interest in Skandia was 98.8 per cent at 31 December 2006.
The Company instigated a compulsory purchase of the remaining Skandia shares during 2007.
These compulsory purchase proceedings are complete and as a result the Company owns 100% of Skandia.
Under the terms of the offer, consideration was paid to Skandia shareholders by way of a combination of cash and shares in Old Mutual plc.
In total, cash consideration of 1,303 million has been paid of which 1,253 million was paid in 2006 and the remainder, in respect of the compulsory purchase programme, in 2007.
The Company issued 1,389 million Old Mutual plc shares in 2006, with a fair value of 2,670 million.
Skandia has been consolidated in the Group Financial Statements of Old Mutual plc since 1 February 2006.
Total revenue and profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 were 3,620 million and 115 million respectively eleven months ended 31 December 2006: 5,148 million and 89 million.
The total revenue and profit before tax for the twelve months ended 31 December 2006 were 5,309 million and 97 million, respectively.
The fair value of the consideration paid for Skandia is as follows: m Year ended 31 December 2007 Cash paid 1,303 Fair value of 1,389 million Old Mutual plc shares issued, based on the published prices at applicable rates of exchange 2,670 Costs of acquisition 72 Total consideration 4,045 The acquisition of Skandia in exchange for the Groups ordinary shares meant that merger relief was applicable under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
As a result 2,532 million was credited to the merger reserve in 2006 within the Companys balance sheet.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 159 16 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired was as follows: m Fair value and Final fair values accounting reported at policy Acquired31 December Book value adjustments intangibles 2007 Assets Intangible assets 52 113 3,036 2,975 Deferred acquisition costs DAC 1,422 1,422 Deferred tax assets 40 5 35 Other assets 39,366 270 39,096 Total assets 40,880 1,810 3,036 42,106 Liabilities Deferred revenue liability DRL 1,214 1,214 Provisions 89 136 225 Contingent liabilities 63 63 Deferred tax liabilities 234 109 500 625 Other liabilities 38,426 18 38,408 Total liabilities 39,963 1,142 500 39,321 Net assets acquired 917 668 2,536 2,785 Residual goodwill 1,260 Total consideration 4,045 Fair value and accounting policy adjustments as stated above include net adjustments of 559 million reflected in the 11 months from 1 February 2006 to 31 December 2006, and a further 109 million of adjustments reflected in January 2007.
The adjustments identified during the year ended 31 December 2007 related to actuarial risk provisions and taxation, pensions and litigation liabilities identified subsequent to control passing from Skandia to the Group.
Other fair value adjustments principally comprised the fide-recognition of DAC, DRL and related balances including deferred tax impacts thereon on the basis that these items had no fair value at acquisition.
The remaining fair value and accounting policy adjustments related to the fide-recognition of goodwill shown in Skandias balance sheet, recognition at fair value of certain assets and liabilities previously recorded at amortised cost and other adjustments to reflect up to date estimates in respect of certain litigation issues and tax, including the recognition of certain contingencies.
Separately identifiable intangible assets have been valued at 3,036 million, using estimated post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates.
This represents the value of Skandia PVIF, distribution networks, non-life customer relationship, and brand.
No other intangibles were identified which were capable of reliable measurement.
A deferred tax liability of 500 million was provided for in respect of these intangible assets, based on the tax rates applicable in the various territories, on the grounds that the assets had no tax base, thereby creating temporary differences on which deferred tax must be provided.
The useful economic lives of the PVIF and other intangibles have been assessed, taking into account factors such as the usage of the asset, life cycles, obsolescence, maintenance, and period of control over the asset.
PVIF and other intangible assets are amortised over a period of between 10 and 20 years.
Related deferred tax liabilities are amortised in line with the amortisation of the particular intangible asset.
The final residual goodwill of 1,260 million represents the value of the Skandia workforce and synergies, both from increased revenues and reduced costs which are expected to arise across the Skandia business and within the UK life assurance operations as a result of the acquisition.
It also represents the value of new business growth and other customer intangible assets that cannot be reliably measured.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 160 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 17 Goodwill and other intangible assets m Present value of acquired Software Other in-force development intangible Goodwill business costs assets Total At 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Cost Balance at beginning of the year 2,559 1,451 2,543 288 358 355 758 6,218 2,094 Acquisitions through business combinations 122 1,338 101 2,289 1 38 15 755 239 4,420 Additions 90 56 4 2 94 58 Foreign exchange and other movements 127 220 92 34 3 72 27 1 249 325 Disposals or retirements 26 10 2 19 28 29 Transfer to Assets Held-for-Sale 20 27 47 Balance at end of the year 2,762 2,559 2,736 2,543 423 358 804 758 6,725 6,218 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 130 161 431 159 222 204 68 851 524 Amortisation charge for the year 283 303 48 46 70 65 401 414 Impairment losses charged for the year 8 1 6 1 2 14 Foreign exchange and other movements 10 39 14 31 5 21 5 3 34 88 Disposals or retirements 1 13 1 13 Transfer to Assets Held-for-Sale 7 14 21 Balance at end of the year 133 130 728 431 261 222 144 68 1,266 851 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 2,429 1,290 2,112 129 136 151 690 5,367 1,570 Balance at end of the year 2,629 2,429 2,008 2,112 162 136 660 690 5,459 5,367 The majority of other intangible assets comprise distribution channels, customer relationships and brands associated with the Skandia business acquired during the previous financial year.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions through business combinations is principally 51 million with respect to various acquisitions by the Groups United States Asset Management business, 70 million relating to the purchase of additional interests in the Groups South Africa Banking business, 1 million relating to various other small acquisitions.
Goodwill impairment charge The goodwill impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2007 was nil 2006: 8 million.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is reviewed for each cash generating unit CGU and the recoverable amounts are determined from value in use or net selling price calculations.
An impairment to goodwill is made where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The key assumptions used in the determination of the recoverable amount are outlined below by segment: Europe The CGUs are the geographical areas, UK, Nordic and ELAM.
In determining the total recoverable amount for each CGU the following assumptions are used: Long-term business Shareholders recoverable amount of the long-term business is determined using embedded value methodology plus a multiple of the value of new business VNB.
Embedded value represents the shareholders interest in the long-term business and is calculated in accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV principles.
The VNB represents the present value of future profits from new business.
The EEV and VNB are actuarially determined, based on business plans approved by management covering a three year period.
Projections beyond that date have been extrapolated using a conservative inflation based growth assumption.
The methodology and significant assumptions underlying the determination of EEV and VNB are disclosed in the supplementary information shown on pages 242 and 254 to 258.
The valuation includes the expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
The valuation multiple applied to the VNB has been determined by reference to recent market multiples applied in similar transactions of similar businesses.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 161 17 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Other business The asset management business recoverable amount has been determined under the value-in-use methodology, based on projected cash flows.
The cash flows are based on the business plans approved by management for the next three years and extrapolated using the same inflation based growth rate as under EEV.
The assumptions underlying the business plan include market share, sales growth, investment performance and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
The risk free rates of return are the same as in the EEV calculations.
The discount rate applied is based on the cost of equity.
The equity market risk premium is determined by references to market valuation models.
The banking business has been valued based on a multiple of earnings, with comparison to recent similar transactions and market valuations.
North America Goodwill attributable to North America relates to the acquisition of the US Life business and US Asset Management.
As for Europe, the recoverable amount of the long-term business is determined as the EEV plus a multiple of the value of new business.
The methodology and assumptions underlying the EEV and VNB are disclosed on pages 242 and 254 to 258.
The multiples are determined by reference to recent market transactions and valuation models.
The recoverable amount of the asset management business is determined under the value-in-use methodology.
Projected cash flows are based on three year business plans approved by management, with extrapolation for two further years using a 6 per cent growth rate.
The discount rate applied to these projected future cash flows is 14 per cent.
Africa The goodwill for South Africa primarily relates to the banking business.
The recoverable amount for the banking business is determined based on the value-in-use methodology.
The calculation uses cash flow projections from business plans for the forthcoming three years which are then extrapolated for two further years.
Extrapolation is achieved using a long-term growth rate which varies between 3 and 5 per cent.
The risk adjusted discount rate is approximately 12.5 per cent.
Goodwill by cash generating unit The following table is an analysis of the goodwill, net of amortisation and impairment losses by principal cash generating units: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 US Asset Management 932 923 US Life 57 58 African banking 318 233 UK 639 587 Nordic region 196 173 Europe and Latin America 436 370 Other 51 85 Goodwill, net of impairment losses 2,629 2,429 Goodwill and other intangible assets by segment m South United At 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other Total Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortisation and impairment losses 448 1,141 3,839 31 5,459 Amortisation 37 24 340 401 Impairment losses 1 1 2 m South United At 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortisation and impairment losses 384 1,092 3,826 65 5,367 Amortisation 42 14 358 414 Impairment losses 14 14 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 162 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 18 Property, plant and equipment m Plant and Land Buildings equipment Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Gross carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 53 63 290 331 514 507 857 901 Additions 3 1 4 5 108 93 115 99 Additions from business combinations 2 1 14 75 1 91 Increase arising from revaluation 17 3 87 25 104 28 Disposals 2 20 5 43 54 63 61 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 14 5 80 2 107 8 201 Transfer to non-current assets held-for-sale 1 7 34 42 Balance at end of the year 73 53 360 290 547 514 980 857 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 13 6 345 357 358 363 Depreciation charge for the year 8 8 65 60 73 68 Disposals 4 1 30 42 34 43 Foreign exchange and other movements 6 4 30 2 30 Transfer to non-current assets held-for-sale 1 22 23 Balance at end of the year 10 13 362 345 372 358 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 53 63 277 325 169 150 499 538 Balance at end of the year 73 53 350 277 185 169 608 499 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment leased to third parties under operating leases, included in the above is 28 million 2006: 20 million and comprises land of 4 million 2006: 3 million and buildings of 24 million 2006: 17 million.
There are no restrictions on property, plant and equipment title as a result of security pledges and no contractual commitments for the acquisition of plant, property and equipment.
The revaluation of land and buildings relates to the South Africa long-term business, 2 million and 67 million respectively, the South Africa banking business, 15 million and 20 million respectively.
For long-term business, land and buildings are valued as at 31 December each year by internal professional valuers and external valuations are obtained once every three years.
External professional valuers are used for the banking business.
For both businesses the valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows and vacant land and property are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
The carrying value that would have been recognised had the land and buildings been carried under the cost model would be 19 million 2006: 19 million and 92million 2006: 92 million respectively for the African long-term business and 13 million 2006: 15 million and 86 million 2006: 97 million for the African banking business respectively.
Capital expenditure and depreciation by segment m South United At 31 December 2007 Africa States Europe Other Total Capital expenditure, net of depreciation 544 17 39 8 608 Depreciation 54 6 13 73 m South United At 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Capital expenditure, net of depreciation 450 14 28 7 499 Depreciation 51 5 12 68 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 163 19 Investment property m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Balance at beginning of the year 1,149 847 Additions 50 1 Additions from business combinations 2 Disposals 12 3 Net gain from fair value adjustments 264 139 Foreign exchange and other movements 28 157 Balance at end of the year 1,479 1,149 In 2007 additions of 49 million 2006: 1 million related to Africa long-term business and 1 million 2006: nil related to Africa banking business.
Of the net gain arising from fair value adjustments on investment properties, 263 million 2006: 137 million related to Africa long-term business and 1 million 2006: 2 million related to Africa banking business.
The fair value of investment property leased to third parties under operating leases is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Freehold 1,471 1,142 Long leaseholds Short leaseholds 8 7 1,479 1,149 Rental income from investment property 80 87 Direct operating expense arising from investment property that generated rental income 25 21 55 66 The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent valuer at least every three years, and annually by locally qualified staff, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values are determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
The Groups current lease arrangements, which are entered into on an arms length basis and which are comparable to those for similar properties in the same location, are taken into account.
Of the total investment property of 1,479 million 2006: 1,149 million, 1,117 million 2006: 802 million is attributable to South Africa and 362 million 2006: 347 million to Europe.
20 Operating lease arrangements i The Group as lessee m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2007 2006 Banking 46 39 Non-banking 30 27 Minimum lease payments 76 66 m Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006 Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable NonNonoperating leases, fall due as follows: Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total Within one year 56 32 88 45 26 71 In the second to fifth years inclusive 281 105 386 234 90 324 After five years 262 35 297 236 48 284 599 172 771 515 164 679 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 20 Operating lease arrangements continued ii The Group as lessor m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Assets subject to operating leases 2007 2006 Land 4 3 Buildings 24 17 Investment property 1,479 1,149 1,507 1,169 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Future minimum lease payments of contracts with tenants 2007 2006 Within one year 51 46 In the second to fifth years inclusive 129 115 After five years 41 32 221 193 21 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differences arise.
i Deferred tax assets The movement on the deferred tax assets account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2007 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2007 Insurance funds 125 57 3 71 Tax losses carried forward 337 231 33 139 Accelerated capital allowances 42 2 40 Available for sale securities 50 3 47 Other temporary differences 7 322 7 7 13 356 Netted against liabilities 102 21 123 Deferred fee income 86 67 153 511 18 57 7 90 683 m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2006 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2006 Insurance funds 186 32 29 125 Tax losses carried forward 241 138 2 44 337 Accelerated capital allowances 95 44 9 42 Available for sale securities 4 4 Other temporary differences 60 45 8 23 7 7 458 107 8 25 71 511 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 165 21 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued i Deferred tax assets continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: m 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Gross amount Tax Gross amount Tax Unrelieved tax losses Expiring within one year 39 2 Expiring in the second to fifth years inclusive 262 17 75 4 Expiring after five years 825 177 1,039 244 Accelerated capital allowances 19 6 25 19 Other timing differences 207 68 200 73 1,313 268 1,378 342 ii Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited disposals of and other 31 December 2007 credit to equity subsidiaries movements 2007 Accelerated tax depreciation 515 525 Deferred acquisition costs 338 142 27 27 534 Leasing 173 91 2 80 PVIF 311 63 8 256 Other acquired intangibles 109 11 5 103 Available for sale securities 4 4 Other temporary differences 453 91 1 114 429 Policyholder Tax 45 154 109 Netted against assets 102 21 123 1,393 64 23 1 62 1,413 m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited disposals of and other 31 December 2006 credit to equity subsidiaries movements 2006 Accelerated tax depreciation 2 2 1 5 Deferred acquisition costs 302 63 15 42 338 Leasing 157 30 14 173 PVIF 62 375 2 311 Other acquired intangibles 9 119 1 109 Available for sale securities 18 13 26 1 4 Other temporary differences 132 274 11 99 41 453 611 311 22 593 100 1,393 As the Group is able to control the reversal of temporary differences in respect of investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and JVs and it is probable that these temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future, there is no need to provide for the associated deferred tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences on which further tax might be due if these temporary differences reversed would be estimated at 2.2 billion 2006: 1.6 billion.
The figures shown above take into account the proposed reduction in corporation tax rates in Germany and the UK.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 22 Investments in associated undertakings i Investments in associated undertakings The Groups investments in associated undertakings accounted for under the equity method are as follows: m Carrying Group share At 31 December 2007 Country of operation % interest held value of profit loss Acturis Ltd United Kingdom 53% 1 Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 16 G & C Shelf 31 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 40% 3 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 25 3 Masingita Property Investment Holdings Republic of South Africa 35% 2 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 4 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 8 All other associated undertakings 22 2 81 1 All of the above investments in associated undertakings are unlisted.
All investments in associated undertakings are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2007.
The Groups holding in Acturis Ltd is non-voting preference shares.
Consequently as the Group does not have control in Acturis Ltd this Company has not been consolidated.
m Carrying Group share At 31 December 2006 Country of operation % interest held value of profit loss Acturis Ltd United Kingdom 53% 1 Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 12 G & C Shelf 31 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 40% 6 Kimberley Clark Republic of South Africa 50% 19 2 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 12 6 Masingita Property Investment Holdings Republic of South Africa 35% 2 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 2 Whirlprops 33 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 4 3 SA Retail Properties Ltd Republic of South Africa 17% 4 All other associated undertakings 21 7 83 6 All of the above investments in associated undertakings are unlisted.
ii Aggregate financial information of investments in associated undertakings The aggregate financial information for all investments in associated undertakings is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Total assets 428 301 Total liabilities 353 263 Total revenues 125 80 Net loss profit after tax 1 6 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 167 22 Investments in associated undertakings continued iii Aggregate Group investment in associated undertakings continued The aggregate amounts for the Groups investment in associated undertakings are as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of the year 83 93 Additions from business combinations 6 Net additions disposals of investment in associated undertakings 8 13 Share of loss profit after tax 1 6 Dividends paid 8 9 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 Balance at end of the year 81 83 The Group has no significant investments which are accounted for as investment in associated undertakings, for which it owns less than 20 per cent of the ordinary share capital.
iv Other Group holdings The above does not include companies whereby the Group has a holding of more than 20 per cent, but does not have significant influence over these companies by virtue of the Group not having any direct involvement in decision making or the other owners possessing veto rights.
v Contingent liabilities The Group is severally liable for the contingent liabilities relating to investments in associated undertakings of 2 million 2006: 2 million.
23 Deferred acquisition costs m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2007 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 1,103 401 74 1,578 Acquisition cost deferred on inwards business 364 357 67 788 Amortisation 108 58 35 201 Foreign exchange and other movements 70 17 8 95 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 7 7 Balance at end of the year 1,422 717 114 2,253 m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2006 contracts contractsmanagement Total Balance at beginning of the year 936 121 32 1,089 Acquisition cost deferred on inwards business 378 308 57 743 Additions from business combinations 4 4 Amortisation 115 15 11 141 Foreign exchange and other movements 96 13 8 117 Balance at end of the year 1,103 401 74 1,578 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 168 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 24 Long-term and general business policyholder liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Long-term business policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 23,637 727 22,910 21,877 717 21,160 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 52,171 636 51,535 45,826 552 45,274 Other investment contracts 1,574 1,574 1,512 1,512 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,404 6,404 5,690 5,690 Outstanding claims 465 31 434 360 45 315 84,251 1,394 82,857 75,265 1,314 73,951 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 40 6 34 Unearned premiums 66 18 48 Outstanding claims 159 33 126 265 57 208 84,251 1,394 82,857 75,530 1,371 74,159 Of the 1,394 million 2006: 1,371 million included in reinsurers share of long-term and general insurance policy liabilities is an amount of 682 million 2006: 743 million which is classified as current, the remainder being non-current.
Of the 213 million 2006: 247 million included in deposits held with reinsurers 183 million 2006: 218 million is classified as current, the remainder being non-current.
Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of long-term business policyholder liabilities, other than outstanding claims, are set out below.
i Insurance contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Balance at beginning of the year 21,877 717 21,160 22,655 376 22,279 Additions from business combinations 1,149 68 1,081 Income Premium income 4,107 128 3,979 4,216 127 4,089 Investment income 1,805 1,805 3,066 3,066 Other income 13 13 10 362 352 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 3,479 111 3,368 2,845 118 2,727 Operating expenses 274 274 743 24 719 Currency translation loss 33 10 23 4,686 68 4,618 Other charges and transfers 160 10 170 690 690 Taxation 29 29 53 53 Transfer from to operating profit 190 7 183 202 6 196 Balance at end of the year 23,637 727 22,910 21,877 717 21,160 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 169 24 Long-term and general business policyholder liabilities continued ii Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts, and other investment contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31December 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of the year 47,338 9,659 Additions from business combinations 31,651 New contributions received 9,942 9,588 Maturities 729 694 Withdrawals surrenders 5,305 4,196 Fair value movements 455 2,877 Foreign exchange and other movements 2,044 1,547 Balance at end of the year 53,745 47,338 iii Discretionary participating investment contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31December 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of the year 5,690 6,230 Income Premium income 515 445 Investment income 818 1,419 Currency translation gains losses 54 1,337 Other income 15 1,402 527 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 535 895 Operating expenses 56 62 Other charges and transfers 31 26 Taxation 6 18 628 1,001 Transfer to operating profit 60 66 Balance at end of the year 6,404 5,690 A maturity analysis of long-term and general insurance policyholder liabilities is shown in the following table: m Undiscounted cash flows More than Balance 3 monthsBetween sheet Less than less than 1 and 5 More than No contractual At 31 December 2007 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years maturity date Total Long-term business Insurance contracts 23,637 495 2,489 12,475 29,422 3 44,884 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 52,171 46,171 364 947 5,133 1 52,616 Other investment contracts 1,574 433 129 578 1,001 2,141 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,404 5,638 3 15 42 5,698 Outstanding claims 465 332 47 27 66 1 473 84,251 53,069 3,032 14,042 35,664 5 105,812 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 170 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 24 Long-term and general business policyholder liabilities continued iii Discretionary participating investment contracts continued m Undiscounted cash flows More than Balance 3 monthsBetween sheet Less than less than 1 and 5 More than No contractual At 31 December 2006 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years maturity date Total Long-term business Insurance contracts 21,877 826 2,248 11,146 27,895 386 42,501 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 45,826 46,168 15 29 114 46,326 Other investment contracts 1,512 40 131 572 935 1,678 Discretionary participating investment contracts 5,690 4,569 5 38 119 4,731 Outstanding claims 360 279 12 34 38 363 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 40 19 15 6 40 Unearned premiums 66 31 25 10 66 Outstanding claims 159 111 40 8 159 75,530 52,043 2,491 11,843 29,101 386 95,864 Insurance contract provisions are calculated based upon assumptions determined in accordance with local accounting requirements.
As described in the accounting policies, these vary significantly between geographies and are therefore discussed separately below.
South Africa In the calculation of liabilities, provision has been made for: the best estimate of future experience, as described below: plus the compulsory margins as set out in the Actuarial Society of South Africa professional guidance notes: plus discretionary margins reflecting mainly the excess of capital charges over the compulsory investment margin of 0.25 per cent for policies that are valued prospectively.
These discretionary margins cause capital charges to be included in operating profits as they are charged and ensure that profits are released appropriately over the term of each policy.
Other discretionary margins, mainly held to cover: mortality and investment return margins for Group Schemes funeral policies, due to the additional risk associated with this business, and to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the term of the policies: expense margins in the pricing basis for Employee Benefits annuities: profit margins on Employee Benefits non-profit annuities to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the life of the policies: mortality margins on Individual Business life policies, accidental death supplementary benefits and disability supplementary benefits, due to uncertainty about future experience: margins on certain Individual Business non-profit annuities, due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the limited availability of long-dated bonds: interest margins on Employee Benefits PHI claims in payment due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the high rate of change in the portfolio high volume of new claimants and terminations : and investment guarantee reserves calculated on a market-consistent basis because they are very sensitive to market interest rates in particular.
Liabilities include provisions to meet financial options and guarantees on a market-consistent basis, and make due allowance for potential lapses and surrenders, based on levels recently experienced.
Mortality and disability rates assumed are consistent with Old Mutuals recent experience, or expected future experience if this would result in a higher liability.
In particular, allowance has been made for the expected deterioration in assured lives experience due to HIV AIDS, and for the expected improvement in annuitant mortality.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 171 24 Long-term and general business policyholder liabilities continued iii Discretionary participating investment contracts continued The provision for expenses before allowing for margins starts at a level consistent with recent experience and allows for an escalation thereafter.
The future gross investment returns by major asset categories and expense inflation excluding margins assumed for South Africa insurance business are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Fixed interest securities 8.5% 8.0% Cash 6.5% 6.0% Equities 12.0% 11.5% Properties 10.0% 9.5% 1 1 Future expense inflation 5.5% 5.0% 1 7.5% 2006: 7% for Individual Business administered on old platforms and 6.5% 2006: 6% for Group Schemes business.
For non-profit annuities, liabilities are determined by calculating the present value of projected future benefits and expenses, valued using current fixed-interest yields or swap curve yields.
Assumptions are based upon experience as analysed in the following investigations: Type of business Type of investigation Period of investigation Individual Business Flexi business mortality 2003 to 2006 Conventional business mortality 1999 to 2000 Annuitant mortality 2001 to 2004 Dread disease 2000 to 2002 Disability 2000 to 2002 Persistency 2006 Group Schemes Mortality 2006 Persistency 2007 Employee Benefits Annuitant mortality 2000 to 2004 Group assurance Ongoing for the purpose of setting scheme rates All Expenses Reviewed on an annual basis There were various changes to valuation assumptions, which have resulted in a net increase in the value of insurance contract provisions of 22 million as at 31 December 2007, with a corresponding reduction in profit before tax of the same amount.
The most significant item was a 60 million increase including a discretionary margin in the reserve for investment guarantees which has been calculated on a market-consistent basis for the first time.
The basis for terminations and alterations was strengthened by 10 million leading to an increase in liabilities.
Lower assured lives mortality and a reduction in retail maintenance expenses reduced the value of liabilities by 21 million and 11 million respectively.
Various methodology changes reduced the value of liabilities by 12 million.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 172 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 24 Long-term and general business policyholder liabilities continued iii Discretionary participating investment contracts continued United States Insurance contract provisions and Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC balances for traditional insurance products with fixed premiums and benefits measured according to FAS 60 under US GAAP are calculated using mortality, lapse, expense and discount assumptions as at inception of the contract.
These assumptions are determined based on managements best estimate, reflecting actual and expected experience, and also include provision for adverse deviation.
The assumptions are locked in as of the date of issue, and are revised only where liability adequacy testing based on current best estimate assumptions results in loss recognition.
For insurance products with flexible premiums or benefits measured according to FAS 97 under US GAAP, the account value is held as the base insurance contract provision, and the assumptions below are therefore not applicable.
DAC balances, and additional reserves held for items including lapse guarantees, persistency bonuses and gains followed by losses, utilise best estimate assumptions as of the valuation date.
Mortality rates vary by gender and issue age: lapse rates vary by issue age and duration.
Reserves for life contingent payout annuities are accumulated using the effective interest rate, which is the rate that discounts future liability cash flows back to the gross premium less transaction costs.
All other FAS 60 products use a discount rate based on best estimate of future yields at policy inception.
Best estimate assumptions as of December 2007 reflect experience as analysed in the following investigations: Assumption Period of investigation Mortality rates assurance 1994 to 2006 Mortality rates annuities 2004 to 2006 Lapse rates 1996 to 2006 Expenses 2005 Europe Insurance contract provisions for the Groups Europe long-term business are limited, and principally comprise technical provisions for pure disability and death benefit cover sold in the United Kingdom and Sweden, together with death benefit risk cover in respect of unit-linked assurance products.
25 Loans and advances i Summary m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 Notes 2007 Restated Home loans 12,082 9,780 Commercial mortgages 4,415 3,392 Properties in possession 23 10 Credit cards 541 391 Overdrafts 990 1,075 Policyholder loans 204 192 Other loans to clients 4,727 4,839 Preference shares and debentures 689 500 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 3,866 3,468 Gross investment 4,267 3,741 Unearned finance charges 401 273 Factoring accounts 36 61 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 135 309 Term loans 2,988 2,301 Remittances in transit 14 12 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 429 490 Gross loans and advances 31,139 26,820 Less provisions for impairment of advances Specific provisions 31 322 277 Portfolio provision 31 130 105 Total net loans and advances 30,687 26,438 Non-performing loans included above had a book value less impairment provisions of 487 million 2006: 310 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 173 25 Loans and advances continued i Summary continued Impairment provisions in respect of loans and advances is established when there is objective evidence that a loan or group of loans is impaired, including observable data that come to the attention of the Group about the following loss events: significant financial difficulty of the borrower: a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: the Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, grants to the borrower a concession that the Group would not otherwise consider: it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: the disappearance of an active market for that asset because of financial difficulties: or observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of loan assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual loans, including: adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the group of loans: or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group of loans.
Of the loans and advances shown above, 10,110 million 2006: 8,731 million is receivable within one year of the balance sheet date and is regarded as current.
20,577 million 2006: 17,707 million is regarded as non-current based on the maturity profile of the assets.
The specific provisions for impairment at 31 December 2007 included 296 million 2006: 256 million relating to non-performing loans and advances made by the banking business.
ii Finance lease and instalment debtors m Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments receivable lease payments receivable At At At 31 December At 31 December 31 December 2006 31 December 2006 Amounts receivable under finance leases 2007 Restated 2007 Restated Within one year 828 726 748 669 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,165 2,990 2,869 2,776 After five years 274 25 249 23 4,267 3,741 3,866 3,468 Less: unearned finance income 401 273 Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 3,866 3,468 3,866 3,468 The accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable is 131 million 2006: 69 million.
26 Investments and securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Government and  securities 7,234 8,669 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures Listed 12,621 11,414 Unlisted 4,281 2,832 Equity securities Listed 21,361 21,432 Unlisted 1,015 704 Pooled investments Listed 7,122 2,465 Unlisted 33,069 30,846 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,342 3,307 Other 175 246 Total investments and securities 90,220 81,915 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity profile.
Of the amounts shown above, 42,754 million 2006: 33,987 million is regarded as current and 47,466 million 2006: 47,928 million are regarded as non-current.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 174 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 27 Other assets m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Debtors arising from direct insurance operations Amounts owed by policyholders 26 66 Amounts owed by intermediaries 88 114 Other 43 50 157 230 Debtors arising from reinsurance operations 91 Outstanding settlements 147 1,241 Other receivables 772 601 Accrued interest and rent 444 260 Trading securities and spot positions 273 308 Prepayments and accrued income 134 341 Other assets 163 125 Total other assets 2,181 3,106 Based on the maturity profile of the above assets, 1,561 million 2006: 1,302 million is regarded as current and 620 million 2006: 1,804 million as non-current.
28 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group utilises the following derivative instruments for both hedging and non-hedging purposes: Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or underlying equities, or indices or interest rates or buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price established in an organised financial market an Exchange.
Since futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the Exchange, the credit risk is negligible.
Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate contracts that call for a cash settlement at a future date for the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are individually negotiated contracts that require settlement of the pre-agreed currency amounts at a future date.
Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates or a combination of both i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Except for certain currency swaps, no exchange of principal takes place.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligation.
This risk is monitored continuously with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign currency, interest rate options and equity, or equity index, are contractual agreements under which the writer grants the holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument or amount of assets determined by reference to an index at a predetermined price.
In consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, interest rate or asset price risk, the seller receives a premium from the purchaser.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer over-the-counter.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet, but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become in-the-money or out-of-the-money as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or asset prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are in-the-money or out-of-the-money and, therefore, the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 175 28 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end.
These instruments allow the Group and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their credit, equity market, foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
m Notional principals Fair values At 31 December 2007 Positive values Negative values Assets Liabilities Equity derivatives Options written 3,515 171 Options purchased 3,443 68 Futures 823 1,831 35 65 4,266 5,346 103 236 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 5,765 6,307 917 952 Swaps 2,576 1,186 96 71 Options purchased 445 1 Futures 193 58 Options written 319 2 8,979 7,870 1,014 1,025 Interest rate contracts Swaps 10,153 11,849 294 380 Forward rate agreements 2,744 3,454 8 7 Options purchased 305 2 Options written 339 42 Futures 10,205 10,268 51 25 Caps 487 182 2 1 23,894 26,092 357 455 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 104 32 Credit default swaps 53 104 53 32 Other derivatives 142 287 21 Total 37,385 39,648 1,527 1,716 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 176 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 28 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued m Notional principals Fair values At 31 December 2006 Positive values Negative values Assets Liabilities Equity derivatives Options written 5,447 271 Options purchased 5,768 529 Futures 769 719 12 11 6,537 6,166 541 282 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 6,920 6,298 326 288 Swaps 607 859 127 33 Options purchased 57 53 7,584 7,210 453 321 Interest rate contracts Swaps 8,177 10,035 233 369 Forward rate agreements 2,918 2,484 5 3 Options purchased 94 283 9 Options written 77 Futures 514 715 17 12 Caps 289 279 1 2 11,992 13,873 265 386 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 66 50 Credit default swaps 50 10 116 60 Other derivatives 182 267 4 82 Total 26,411 27,576 1,263 1,071 The contractual maturities of the derivatives held are as follows: m More than Balance Less 3 months Between No contractual sheet than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity At 31 December 2007 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total Derivative financial liabilities 1,716 1,620 46 15 35 1,716 m More than Balance Less 3 months Between No contractual sheet than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity At 31 December 2006 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total Derivative financial liabilities 1,071 44 394 376 215 42 1,071 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 177 29 Hedge accounting Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedge accounting is applied by the Parent Company in respect of the Groups exposures to foreign currency risk.
The Group hedges its foreign currency risk on two of its existing Euro loan borrowings by entering into foreign currency swaps for USD.
These swaps are bifurcated into a Euro GBP swap and a GBP USD swap.
Cash flow hedge accounting is applied to the Euro GBP swap.
At 31 December the remaining Euro GBP swaps had a notional principal of 22 million 30 million and a minimal fair value.
The GBP USD swap qualifies as a net investment hedge, as discussed below.
During the year, the Group repaid 400 million Eurobond and in turn closed out the 400 million $349 million swap.
The maturity of the final EUR USD swap of 30 million is on 11 July 2010 and matches the repayment of the corresponding bond.
The cash flow hedge reserve will be released to the income statement over the remaining life of the swap to offset the currency movements on the loan.
An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is shown in the table below: m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date GMTN4 cross currency interest rate swap 25 GMTN6 cross currency interest rate swap 2 23 Analysis of movements in cash flow hedge reserve Cash flow hedge at beginning of the year 1 2 Amount recognised in equity during the year 1 Amount removed from equity and recognised in income statement during the year Finance costs borrowed funds 1 2 Cash flow hedge reserve at end of year 1 In respect of the GMTN4 cross currency swap, cash flows ceased on 10 April 2006.
In respect of the GMTN6 cross currency swap, cash flows will occur annually on 11 July until 11 July 2010.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of either of the above cash flow hedges during the financial year 2006: nil.
Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and debt raised in the currency of the exposure to mitigate the translation effect of holding overseas companies.
The following table summarises the Groups open positions with respect to financial instruments utilised for net investment hedging purposes.
Open positions at year-end m At 31 December 2007 USD ZAR SEK Forward contracts 38 182 52 1 Currency swaps 262 318 2 Debt 106 161 406 182 531 Open positions at year-end m At 31 December 2006 USD ZAR SEK Forward contracts 40 202 1 Currency swaps 195 305 2 Debt 118 169 313 40 676 1 Excludes $35 million of currency swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
2 Excludes $750 million and 500 million of financial instruments accounted as minority interests or as equity.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 178 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 29 Hedge accounting continued Net investment hedges continued An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as net investment hedges is shown in the table below: m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Fair value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges at the balance sheet date GMTN4 cross currency interest rate swap fair value of net investment hedge only 71 GMTN6 cross currency interest rate swap fair value of net investment hedge only 4 4 SEK forward foreign exchange contracts 1 1 ZAR forward foreign exchange contracts 5 300 million cross currency interest rate swap 16 3 750 million cross currency interest rate swap 2 20 71 The GMTN4 and GMTN6 cross currency swaps are designated to hedge the foreign exchange currency exposure to USD assets in respect of the Groups investment in its US operations.
The ZAR forwards are designated as hedges against the foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in its South African operations.
SEK forwards are used to hedge foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in Skandia.
The 300 million cross currency interest rate swap is used to hedge SEK currency risk on SEK based assets in the Groups net investment in Skandia.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of any of the above net investment hedges during the financial year 2006: nil.
30 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Determination of fair value All financial instruments, regardless of their IAS 39 categorisation, are initially recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price, that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the initial fair value may be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only observable data.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on offer prices for assets and bid prices for liabilities.
When quoted prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
For certain derivative instruments, fair values may be determined in whole or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data.
A number of factors such as bid-offer spread, credit profit, servicing costs and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when values are calculated using a valuation technique.
None of the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost have a fair value significantly different to their carrying amounts.
Loans and advances The fair values of loans and advances equate, broadly, to the carrying amount measured on an amortised cost basis.
Investments and securities The fair values of listed investments and securities are based on bid prices.
For unlisted investments and securities, fair values are determined using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data.
Investment contracts The approach to determining the fair values of investment contracts is set out in the accounting policies section for insurance and investment contract business.
Amounts owed to bank depositors The fair values of amounts owed to bank depositors corresponds with the carrying amount shown in the balance sheet, which generally reflects the amount payable on demand.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 179 30 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued Determination of fair value continued Borrowed funds The fair values of amounts included in borrowed funds are based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where applicable, or by reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
Other financial assets and liabilities The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities are reasonably approximated by the carrying amounts reflected in the balance sheet.
Financial instruments designated as fair value through profit and loss Certain items in the Groups balance sheet that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through profit or loss.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum exposure Current At 31 December 2007 to credit risk financial year Cumulative Loans and advances 1,768 8 1 Investments and securities 6,346 1 4 Other assets 18 8,132 9 3 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum exposure Current At 31 December 2006 to credit risk financial year Cumulative Loans and advances 1,982 2 8 Investments and securities 4,350 1 Other assets 22 6,354 1 8 Certain items in the Groups balance sheet that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through profit or loss.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Contractual Current maturity At 31 December 2007 Fair value financial year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,676 61 62 1,718 Amounts owed to bank depositors 4,002 1 1 4,022 5,678 60 61 5,740 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Contractual Current maturity At 31 December 2006 Fair value financial year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,053 1 1 1,060 Amounts owed to bank depositors 705 1 705 1,758 1 1,765 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 180 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 31 Analysis of movements in impairment account Movements in provisions for impairment by classification are analysed as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Specific Portfolio Total Specific Portfolio Total impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment Balance at beginning of the year Loans and advances At amortised cost 268 105 373 392 72 464 At fair value through profit or loss 9 9 13 13 Other assets 819 415 285 106 391 409 73 482 Income statement charge Loans and advances At amortised cost 140 23 163 91 48 139 At fair value through profit or loss 7 7 2 2 Other assets 5 5 7 7 138 23 161 96 48 144 Amounts written off against the impairment Loans and advances At amortised cost 116 116 174 8 166 At fair value through profit or loss Other assets 116 116 174 8 166 Recoveries of amounts previously written off Loans and advances At amortised cost 30 30 27 27 At fair value through profit or loss Other assets 30 30 27 27 Foreign exchange and other movements Loans and advances At amortised cost 1 2 1 68 23 91 At fair value through profit or loss 1 1 2 2 Other assets 3 3 2 2 73 23 96 Balance at end of the year Loans and advances At amortised cost 321 130 451 268 105 373 At fair value through profit or loss 1 1 9 9 Other assets 13 1 14 819 Balance at end of the year 335 131 466 285 106 391 The aggregate amount of non-performing loans and advances on which interest was not being accrued amounted to 483 million 2006: 324 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 181 32 Group balance sheet categories of financial instruments The analysis of assets and liabilities into their categories as defined in IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' IAS 39 is set out in the following table.
For completeness, assets and liabilities of a non-financial nature, or financial assets and liabilities that are specifically excluded from the scope of IAS 39, are reflected in the non-financial assets and liabilities category.
m Fair value through profit and loss AvailableFinancial for-sale Held-toliabilities Non-financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2007 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,459 5,459 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 615 615 Property, plant and equipment 608 608 Investment property 1,479 359 1,120 Deferred tax assets 683 683 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 81 81 Deferred acquisition costs 2,253 2,253 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,394 638 16 740 Deposits held with reinsurers 213 184 29 Loans and advances 30,687 1,912 1,768 27,007 Investments and securities 90,220 1,445 75,171 12,524 650 430 Current tax receivable 83 83 Client indebtedness for acceptances 165 165 Other assets 2,181 273 66 1,459 383 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,527 1,527 Cash and cash equivalents 3,469 1 3,468 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1,617 1,617 142,734 5,157 78,186 12,525 650 33,024 13,192 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 84,251 53,745 30,506 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 3,547 3,547 Borrowed funds 2,353 1,676 677 Provisions 499 499 Deferred revenue 462 462 Deferred tax liabilities 1,413 1,413 Current tax payable 320 320 Other liabilities 6,180 1,955 435 3,184 606 Liabilities under acceptances 165 165 Amounts owed to bank depositors 31,817 1,187 4,002 26,628 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,716 1,716 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 414 414 133,137 4,858 63,405 30,489 34,385 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 182 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 32 Group balance sheet categories of financial instruments continued m Fair value through profit and loss AvailableFinancial for-sale Held-toliabilities Non-financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2006 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,367 5,367 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 515 515 Property, plant and equipment 499 499 Investment property 1,149 345 804 Deferred tax assets 511 511 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 83 83 Deferred acquisition costs 1,578 1,578 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,314 552 762 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 57 57 Deposits held with reinsurers 247 214 33 Loans and advances 26,438 1,688 1,982 22,768 Investments and securities 81,915 1,209 67,967 11,832 518 389 Current tax receivable 60 60 Client indebtedness for acceptances 188 188 Other assets 3,106 300 91 2,406 309 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,263 1,263 Cash and cash equivalents 3,101 3,101 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1,165 1,165 128,556 4,460 71,151 11,832 518 29,212 11,383 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 75,265 47,33827,927 General insurance liabilities 265 265 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 3,041 3,041 Borrowed funds 1,978 1,053 925 Provisions 542 542 Deferred revenue 283 283 Deferred tax liabilities 1,393 1,393 Current tax payable 283 283 Other liabilities 7,247 2,177 413 4,107 550 Liabilities under acceptances 188 188 Amounts owed to bank depositors 27,130 1,373 705 25,052 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,071 1,071 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 1,107 1,107 119,793 4,621 52,550 30,084 32,538 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 183 33 Discontinued operations, assets and liabilities held-for-sale Discontinued operations The results of the Groups South Africa general insurance business, Mutual & Federal, are shown as a discontinued operation in these financial statements.
The Group is currently in discussions with the investment group, Royal Bafokeng Holdings Proprietary Limited RBH which may or may not result in the sale to RBH of a controlling interest in Mutual & Federal.
An analysis of the results of Mutual & Federal is shown in the segmental income statement in note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Further analysis of the results of discontinued operations is given below.
Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit from discontinued operations to profit after tax from discontinued operations m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Adjusted operating profit from discontinued operations 89 82 Adjusting items from discontinued operations 7 50 Profit for the financial year before tax from discontinued operations 82 132 Income tax expense on discontinued operations 25 58 Profit for the financial year after tax on discontinued operations 57 74 Adjusting items from discontinued operations m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 3 3 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 4 53 Total adjusting items from discontinued operations 7 50 Tax on adjusting items 3 15 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 5 Adjusting items from discontinued operations after tax and MI 2 30 Adjusted operating profit from discontinued operations attributable to ordinary equity holders m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Adjusted operating profit from discontinued operations 89 82 Tax on adjusted operating profit from discontinued operations 28 43 Adjusted operating profit after tax from discontinued operations 61 39 Minority interests ordinary shares 20 14 Adjusted operating profit after tax from discontinued operations attributable to ordinary equity holders 41 25 Net cash flows from discontinued operations m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Operating activities 66 91 Investing activities 28 45 Financing activities 61 234 Net cash outflow 23 98 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 184 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 33 Discontinued operations, assets and liabilities held-for-sale continued Non-current assets held-for-sale m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Loans and advances 994 Investments and securities 359 669 Other assets 232 107 Derivative financial instruments 55 Cash and cash equivalents 32 334 1,617 1,165 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,052 General insurance liabilities 299 Other liabilities 115 55 414 1,107 Europe vehicle finance business Skandias Nordic vehicle finance operation, SkandiaBanken Bilfinans, has been sold to DnB NOR.
The transfer of business is expected to be completed in the first part of 2008 and therefore the assets have been classified as held-for-sale as at 31 December 2007.
The total consideration of the transaction is 1,100 million.
South Africa general insurance business The assets and liabilities of Mutual & Federal have been shown as non-current assets and liabilities held-for-sale as at 31 December 2007.
The Groups with-profits segment of the savings market in Spain and the Groups South African banking business interest in a financial solutions business held-for-sale at 31 December 2006 were sold in 2007.
34 Borrowed funds m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 Notes 2007 Restated Senior debt securities and term loans 34 i 461 831 Mortgage backed securities 34 ii 103 Subordinated debt securities 34 iii 1,789 1,147 Borrowed funds 2,353 1,978 i Senior debt securities and term loans m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 1 Floating rate notes 151 175 2 Fixed rate notes 44 315 3 Revolving credit facility 161 226 Term loan and other loans 26 9 Investment fund borrowings 79 106 Total senior debt securities and term loan 461 831 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 185 34 Borrowed funds continued i Senior debt securities and term loans continued The maturities of the senior debt securities and term loans are as follows: m Greater than 1 year and Less than less than Greater than At 31 December 2007 1 year 5 years 5 years Total Floating rate notes 7576 151 Fixed rate notes 291544 Revolving credit facility 161 161 Term loans and other loans 17 9 26 Investment fund borrowings 79 79 Total senior debt securities and term loan 118 252 91 461 At 31 December 2006 Floating rate notes 49 24 102 175 Fixed rate notes 265 40 10 315 Revolving credit facility 226 226 Term loans and other loans 9 9 Investment fund borrowings 106 106 Total senior debt securities and term loan 420 299 112 831 Senior debt securities and term loan comprise: 1 Floating rate notes 13 million note repayable in December 2010, with holders having the option to elect for early redemption every 6 months with coupon referenced against 6 month LIBOR less 0.50 per cent.
US$150 million repayable September 2014 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.63 per cent.
US$50 million repayable September 2011 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.50 per cent.
US$10 million repayable September 2009 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.35 per cent.
SEK100 million repayable March 2009 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.20 per cent.
22 million repayable January 2010 at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.35 per cent.
SEK50 million repayable March 2010 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.38 per cent.
2 Fixed rate notes 30 million Euro bond repayable July 2010, capital and interest swapped into fixed rate US Dollars at 5.28 per cent.
10 million Euro bond repayable December 2010, capital and interest swapped into floating rate US Dollars at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.95 per cent.
20 million Euro bond repayable August 2013, capital and interest swapped into floating rate US Dollars at 3 month LIBOR plus 1.30 per cent.
The total fair value of the swap derivatives associated with the Senior notes is 8 million 2006: 101 million.
These are recognised as assets and are included within note 28.
3 Revolving credit facility The Group has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007 syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility by a further 12 months until September 2012.
At 31 December 2007 413 million 2006: 353 million of this facility was utilised, 161 million 2006: 226 million in the form of drawn debt and 252 million 2006: 127 million in the form of irrevocable letters of credit.
ii Mortgage backed securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated 1 R291 million notes class A1 repayable 18 November 2039 11.467 per cent 21 1 R1.4 billion notes class A2A repayable 18 November 2039 11.817 per cent 73 1 R98 million notes class B note repayable 18 November 2039 12.067 per cent 5 1 R76 million notes class C note repayable 18 November 2039 13.317 per cent 4 103 1 Issued on 10 December 2007 2006: nil by the Groups South African banking business and are callable on 18 November 2012.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 186 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 34 Borrowed funds continued iii Subordinated debt securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Banking 1 US$18 million repayable 31 August 2009 6 month LIBOR less 1.5 per cent 9 9 R4.0 billion repayable 9 July 2012 13.0 per cent Repaid 312 2 R1.5 billion repayable 24 April 2016 7.85 per cent 103 107 3 R1.8 billion repayable 20 September 2018 9.84 per cent 135 118 4 R515 million repayable on 4 December 2008 13.5 per cent 39 40 5 R500 million repayable on 30 December 2010 8.38 per cent 34 37 6 R650 million repayable 8 February 2017 9.03 per cent 47 7 R1.7 billion repayable 8 February 2019 8.9 per cent 123 8 R2.0 billion repayable 6 July 2022 3 month JIBAR plus 0.47 per cent 151 9 R500 million repayable 15 August 2017 3 month JIBAR plus 0.45 per cent 37 10 R1.0 billion repayable 17 September 2015 10.54 per cent 77 11 R500 million repayable 14 December 2017 3 month JIBAR plus 0.70 per cent 37 12 R120 million repayable 14 December 2017 10.38 per cent 9 801 623 Other 13 R3.0 billion repayable 27 October 2020 8.9 per cent 220 219 14 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0 per cent 291 291 15 R250 million preference shares repayable 9 June 2011 18 18 16 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5 per cent 519 SEK850 million repayable in 2017 Repaid 65 1,048 593 Less: banking subordinated debt securities held by other Group companies 60 69 Total subordinated liabilities 1,789 1,147 The subordinated notes rank behind the claims against the Group depositors and other unsecured, unsubordinated creditors.
None of the Groups subordinated notes are secured.
1 This instrument is matched either by advances to clients or covered against exchange rate fluctuations.
2 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 24 April 2005 with a call date of 24 April 2011.
3 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 20 September 2006 at R1.5 billion with a call date of 20 September 2013.
On 18 May an additional R0.3 billion was issued.
4 Unsecured callable Bonds issued 10 June 2002.
5 Unsecured callable Bonds issued 30 March 2006.
6 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 with a call date of 8 February 2012.
7 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 at R1.0 billion.
On 19 March 2007 an additional R0.7 billion was issued.
8 Unsecured secondary capital callable note issued 6 July 2007 and has a call date of 6 July 2017.
9 This bond issued on 15 August 2007 is an unsecured secondary capital callable floating rate note with a call date 15 August 2012.
10 This bond issued on 17 September 2007 is an unsecured fixed rate note with a term of 13 years non-call 8.
11 This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 floating rate note.
After its call date on 14 December 2012 its terms become JIBAR plus 1.70 per cent until maturity.
12 This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 fixed rate note.
After its call date its terms become floating 3 month JIBAR plus initial margin over mid swaps plus 1.0 per cent until maturity.
13 These bonds have a maturity date of 27 October 2020 and pay a coupon of 8.92 per cent to 27 October 2015 and 3 month JIBAR plus 1.59 per cent thereafter.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 27 October 2015 and at 3 monthly intervals thereafter.
14 These bonds, issued on 20 January 2006, have a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pay a coupon of 5.0 per cent to 21 January 2011 and 6 month LIBOR plus 1.13 per cent thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into floating rate of 6 month STIBOR plus 0.50 per cent.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
15 These preference shares are redeemable on 9 June 2011 and pay a variable cumulative coupon of 61.0 per cent of the Prime Rate as quoted by Nedbank Limited.
The Group has the option to redeem the shares at par at any time before the final redemption date but after giving an agreed period of notice.
16 This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5 per cent to 17 January 2012 and 6 month EURIBOR plus 0.96 per cent thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond was swapped equally into Sterling and US Dollars with coupons of 6 month STIBOR plus 0.34 per cent and 6 month US LIBOR plus 0.31 per cent respectively.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 187 35 Provisions m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Surplus property 29 41 Client compensation 19 8 Warranties on sale of business 87 113 Liability for long service leave 34 30 Other provisions 329 337 498 529 Post employment benefits 1 13 Total 499 542 m Warranties Liability for Surplus Client on sale of long service Year ended 31 December 2007 property compensation business leave Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 41 8 113 30 337 529 Unused amounts reversed 3 1 11 6 21 Unwind of discount 2 2 Charge to income statement 20 42347 Utilised during the year 8 8 15 2 33 66 Foreign exchange and other movements 3 2 8 7 Balance at end of the year 29 19 87 34 329 498 At 31 December 2007 provisions in relation to sale of business were 87 million 2006: 113 million.
These principally relate to warranties in respect of the sale of American Skandia to Prudential Financial, recognised by the Group upon acquisition of Skandia.
At 31 December 2007 Other provisions include 71 million 2006: 115 million in respect of the distribution of proceeds arising upon the closure of the unclaimed shares trusts.
Further information is included in note 4 vii.
Also included in this amount are provisions for ongoing litigation across the Group totalling 64 million 2006: 71 million.
m Warranties Liability for Surplus Client on sale of long service Year ended 31 December 2006 property compensation business leave Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 54 10 20 35 123 242 Additions from business combinations 3 102 146 251 Unused amounts reversed 5 2 6 15 28 Unwind of discount 2 2 Charge to income statement 1 1 3 136 141 Utilised during the year 14 1 3 1 39 58 Foreign exchange and other movements 7 14 21 Balance at end of the year 41 8 113 30 337 529 Included in the above are amounts of 78 million 2006: 116 million that are expected to be settled in less than one year.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 188 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 36 Deferred revenue m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Long-term Asset Long-term Asset business management Total business management Total Balance at beginning of the year 201 82 283 68 44 112 Fees and commission income deferred 149 52 201 143 60 203 Amortisation 10 31 41 10 21 31 Foreign exchange and other movements 10 9 19 1 1 Balance at end of the year 350 112 462 201 82 283 37 Other liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Amounts payable on direct insurance business Funds held under reinsurance business ceded 325 26 Amounts owed to policyholders 708 524 Amounts owed to intermediaries 54 55 Other direct insurance operation creditors 3 34 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 29 338 Accruals and deferred income 713 553 Share-based payments cash-settled scheme liabilities 26 36 Short trading securities and spot positions 1,952 2,177 Trade creditors 278 637 Outstanding settlements 1,078 1,948 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 304 290 Other liabilities 710 629 6,180 7,247 Included in the amounts shown above are 4,865 million 2006: 4,436 million that are regarded as current, the remainder as non-current.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 189 38 Amounts owed to bank depositors m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2007 Restated Current accounts 7,303 6,806 Savings deposits 1,024 978 Other deposits and loan accounts Call and term deposits 10,568 8,374 Fixed deposits 1,792 1,656 Cash management deposits 3,081 2,834 Other 3,268 3,010 Negotiable certificates of deposit 4,129 2,650 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 652 822 31,817 27,130 A contractual maturity analysis of the amounts owed to bank depositors is shown in the following table: m More than 3 months Balance sheet Less than less than Between More than No contractual Year ended 31 December 2007 amount 3 months 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years maturity date Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 7,303 7,267 19 17 7,303 Savings deposits 1,024 1,024 1,024 Other deposits and loan accounts 18,709 15,765 2,389 861 53 19,068 Negotiable certificates of deposit 4,129 1,648 2,555 325 4,528 Deposits received under repurchase agreements652 652 652 Amounts owed to bank depositors 31,817 26,356 4,963 1,203 53 32,575 m More than 3 months Balance sheet Less than less than Between More than No contractual Year ended 31 December 2006 amount 3 months 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years maturity date Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 6,806 6,806 6,806 Savings deposits 978 978 978 Other deposits and loan accounts 15,874 13,795 1,672 463 54 24 16,008 Negotiable certificates of deposit 2,650 1,306 1,936 330 1 3,573 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 822 822 822 Amounts owed to bank depositors 27,130 23,710 3,608 793 55 24 28,190 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 190 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 39 Equity i Share capital m At At 31 December 31 December Authorised and issued share capital 2007 2006 Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 750 750 Issued ordinary shares of 10p each 551 550 The Companys authorised share capital was increased to 750 million, divided into 7,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each in accordance with a resolution of shareholders passed at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 14 November 2005, conditional upon the Companys offer to acquire  Skandia publ becoming or being declared wholly unconditional.
This condition was satisfied on 26 January 2006. ii Perpetual preferred callable securities In addition to the Groups senior and subordinated debt, the Group issued perpetual preferred callable securities during 2005 with a total carrying value of 688 million as at 31 December 2007.
In accordance with IFRS accounting standards these instruments are classified as equity and disclosed within equity shareholders funds as shown on page 117.
On 24 March 2005 the Group issued 350 million of perpetual preferred callable securities.
These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 24 March 2020 interest is payable at a fixed rate of 6.4 per cent per annum annually in arrears.
From 24 March 2020 interest is reset semi-annually at 2.2 per cent per annum above the Sterling inter-bank offer rate for six month Sterling deposits, and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
Coupon payments may be deferred at the Groups discretion.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 24 March 2020.
On 4 November 2005 the Group issued further perpetual preferred callable securities in the form of 500 million Step-up Option B Undated Subordinated Notes issued under a Global Note Programme.
For an initial period to 4 November 2015 the notes pay interest at a fixed rate of 5.0 per cent per annum annually in arrears.
After this date the interest is reset semi-annually at 2.63 per cent per annum above six month EURIBOR and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 4 November 2015. iii Share buy back programme On 3 October 2007 the Company announced a share buy back programme involving the repurchase of shares to a total value of approximately 350 million.
The transactions are a combination of on-market purchases on the London Stock Exchange and purchases on the JSE Limited pursuant to one of the contingent purchase contracts approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The repurchases are being financed using the Companys internal resources.
The shares repurchased have not been cancelled and are held by the Company as treasury shares.
As at 31 December 2007 there had been 74,153,587 shares repurchased on the LSE at an average price paid of 165.7p and 30,947,472 shares repurchased on the JSE at an average price paid of Rand 23.14.
40 Minority interests balance sheet i Ordinary shares m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of movements in minority interests 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of the year 848 1,012 Minority interests share of profit 224 207 Minority interests share of dividends paid 115 110 Net acquisition disposal of interests 1 11 Foreign exchange and other movements 25 250 Balance at end of the year 933 848 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 191 40 Minority interests balance sheet continued ii Preferred securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 1 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 140 140 2 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 71 71 3 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 22 22 4 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 458 458 5 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 25 716 691 Unamortised issue costs 13 13 Total in issue at 31 December 703 678 Preferred securities are held at historic value of consideration received less unamortised issue costs.
1 200 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank Group Limited Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary.
These shares are non-redeemable and non-cumulative and pay a cash dividend equivalent to 75 per cent of the prime overdraft interest rate of Nedbank.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to vote during periods when a dividend or any part of it remains unpaid after the due date for payment or when resolutions are proposed that directly affect any rights attaching to the shares or the rights of the holders.
Preference shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividends in priority to any payment of dividends made in respect of any other class of Nedbanks shares.
2 77.3 million R10 preference shares issued at R10.68 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
3 30 million R10 preference shares issued on 22 June 2006 by Imperial Bank Limited a subsidiary of Nedbank Limited, on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
4 US$750 million Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preference Securities issued on 19 May 2003 by Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. a subsidiary of the Group.
Subject to certain limitations, holders of these securities are entitled to receive preferential cash distributions at a fixed rate of 8.0 per cent per annum payable in arrears on a quarterly basis.
The Group may defer payment of distributions at its sole discretion, but such an act may restrict Old Mutual plc from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for a period of 12 months.
Arrears of distributions are payable quarterly cumulatively only on redemption of the securities or at the Groups option.
The securities are perpetual, but may be redeemed at the discretion of the Group from 22 December 2008.
The costs of issue are being amortised over the period to 22 December 2008.
5 35 million R10 preference shares issued on 16 April 2007 at R10.27 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
41 Post employment benefits The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benefits over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit obligations of the Groups pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they operate.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 192 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 41 Post employment benefits continued The discontinued operation is included below.
i Liability for defined benefit obligations m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 Changes in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 758 497 133 152 Additions from business combinations 304 Benefits earned during the year 8 10 4 4 Interest cost on benefit obligation 38 36 10 9 Plan amendments assumption changes 1 Actuarial gain loss 47 2 3 2 Benefits paid 34 31 5 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 48 55 11 30 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 675 758 128 133 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 836 508 139 152 Additions from business combinations 333 Actual return on plan assets 82 88 16 18 Company contributions 14 14 2 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid 33 29 4 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 45 79 17 29 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 855 836 134 139 Net liability recognised in balance sheet Funded status of plan 180 78 6 6 Unrecognised assets 84 16 Other amounts recognised in balance sheet 3 1 Unrecognised actuarial gains 83 65 21 13 Net amount recognised in balance sheet 13 3 18 8 ii Expense recognised in the income statement m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 Current service costs 7 8 4 5 Interest cost 28 29 10 9 Expected return on plan assets 43 38 10 9 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 5 1 1 Total included in staff costs 3 4 4 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 193 41 Post employment benefits continued iii Principal actuarial assumptions Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 African pension schemes Discount rate 5.0-9.0% 8.0-9.0% Expected return on plan assets: Equities 4.5-9.3% 7.8-11.0% Debt 8.0-9.0% 4.8-9.0% Property 9.0% 9.0% Cash 2.0-6.0% 2.8-6.0% Annuities and other 4.5-9.3% 8.0-9.0% Future salary increases 6.0% 5.6-6.0% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 4.5% 4.5% Price inflation 2.6-6.0% 4.8-5.0% UK and Guernsey pension schemes Discount rate 5.0% 5.0% Expected return on plan assets: Equities 7.5-8.0% 7.5-8.1% Debt 4.5-5.5% 4.5-5.1% Property 6.0% 6.1% Cash 3.0-5.5% 3.1-5.0% Annuities and other 5.0-8.0% 5.0-8.1% Future salary increases 4.65% 4.25% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 3.0-4.0% 3.0-4.0% Price inflation 3.25-3.4% 3.0-3.25% Europe pension schemes Discount rate 4.5% 3.8% Expected return on plan assets: Equities 6.7% 6.2% Debt 3.7% 3.2% Property 5.5% 4.8% Annuities and other 5.5% 4.8% Future salary increases 3.3% 3.3% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 2.0% 2.0% Price inflation 2.0% 2.0% African other post retirement schemes Discount rate 8.0-8.5% 8.3-9.0% Expected return on plan assets 8.0-8.5% 8.3-9.0% Future salary increases 6.5-8.5% 6.5-7.5% Price inflation 6.5-8.5% 4.8-5.5% Health cost inflation 6.3-8.5% 6.3-6.8% iv Plan asset allocation Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 Equity securities 45.0% 38.1% 13.2% 14.2% Debt securities 33.7% 35.2% 0.7% 5.6% Property 4.5% 5.0% Cash 2.4% 3.7% 31.1% 18.3% Annuities and other 14.4% 18.0% 55.0% 61.9% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Pension and other retirement benefit plan assets include ordinary shares issued by the Company with a fair value of 0.4 million 2006: 2 million.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 194 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 41 Post employment benefits continued v Summary of Group pension plans m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Present value of defined benefit obligations 675 758 Fair value of plan assets 855 836 Surplus 180 78 Experience losses arising on defined benefit plan liabilities: Amount 5 12 As a percentage of plan liabilities 0.7% 1.6% Experience gains arising on defined benefit plan assets: Amount 39 50 As a percentage of plan assets 4.3% 6.0% 42 Share-based payments i Share-based payment arrangements During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years Performance measure Other 2 1 1 UK Sharesave Scheme 3 2 - 5 2 3 & 5 UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan 6 3 Target growth in EPS UK Restricted Share Plan 3 - 5 3 & 5 South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan 6 3 Target growth in EPS South Africa Restricted Share Plan 5 3 3 OMSA Broad-based Employee Scheme 5 4 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 4 - 6 4, 5 & 6 5 OMSA Management Scheme 3 - 6 3 Target growth in EPS 6 OMSA Black Business Partners Scheme 10 7 OMSA Client & Distributor Scheme 10 7 OMSA Community Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 3 - 6 3 Old Mutual Namibia Senior 4 Black Management Scheme 4 - 6 4, 5 & 6 Old Mutual Namibia Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 6 Old Mutual Namibia Education Scheme 10 6 Old Mutual Namibia Distributor Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Community 6 Partners Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Black 6 Business Partners Scheme 10 6 Old Mutual Namibia Discretionary Scheme 10 Target growth in 8 Nedcor Group 1994 Share Option Scheme 6 3 & 4 headline earnings Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 5 3 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 195 42 Share-based payments continued i Share-based payment arrangements continued Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years Performance measure Other Nedbank Group 2005 9 10 Matched Share Scheme 5 3 Various Nedbank Eyethu Non-Executive 11 Directors Scheme 6 6 4 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 4 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Nedbank Eyethu Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 Nedbank Eyethu Black Business 6,11 Partner Scheme 10 12 13 Nedbank Eyethu Retail Scheme 3 14 Nedbank Eyethu Corporate Scheme 6 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Black 4 Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Black Business 6,11 Partner Scheme 10 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Affinity 6,11 Group Scheme 10 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Education Scheme 10 Target growth in 15 Nedbank UK Long-term Incentive Plan 4 3 average RoE Mutual & Federal Share Option Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Senior Black 4 Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 6 3 7 Mutual & Federal Distributor Scheme Indefinite 7 Mutual & Federal Community Scheme Indefinite Mutual & Federal Black Business 6 Partners Scheme 10 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 196 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 42 Share-based payments continued i Share-based payment arrangements continued Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years Performance measure Other Mutual & Federal Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 Mutual & Federal Namibia Share Option Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Namibia Senior 4 Black Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 7 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme Indefinite Mutual & Federal Namibia Black 6 Business Partners Scheme 10 Mutual & Federal Namibia Management Incentive Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 6 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Scheme 10 1 All share-based payment arrangements are equity settled with the exception of the South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan and the South Africa Restricted Share Plan which are cash-settled.
UK schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the London Stock Exchange.
South Africa, OMSA and Old Mutual schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
Nedcor and Nedbank schemes relate to shares in Nedbank Group Ltd listed on the JSE.
Mutual & Federal schemes relate to shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd listed on the JSE.
Details of schemes related to US Asset Management are provided in note 42 vi.
2 Scheme is linked to a savings plan.
3 Earlier of five years or participant being entitled to any other award under any other share incentive scheme of the Company.
4 One third of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
5 Performance target applies to options only.
6 Expiry of the contractual life.
7 Minimum period of ten years.
8 One half of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
9 Matching contributions made by the participant of an amount not more than 50 per cent of their after-tax bonus.
10 Where performance targets are not met, 50 per cent of the instruments granted will become unrestricted.
11 No dealing in these instruments during the notional funding period.
12 For every three shares acquired, participants qualify for an additional bonus share.
13 Participant holds a Nedbank Group Ltd account as their primary account for the contractual life of the instrument.
14 Participant uses Nedbank Group Ltd as their primary banker for contractual life of the instrument.
Nedbank has first right of refusal over all banking requirements.
"15 Share appreciation rights ""SAR"" scheme, where Nedbank will settle the difference between the current market price and the exercise price in cash, when the employee decides to exercise the SAR."
ii Reconciliation of movements in options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Options over shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange of options exercise price of options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 28,763,896 1.04 38,512,802 0.92 Granted during the year 11,642,305 1.51 3,023,519 1.81 Forfeited during the year 873,287 1.39 1,422,453 1.03 Exercised during the year 9,047,035 0.92 11,279,079 0.85 Expired during the year 217,812 1.57 70,893 1.08 Outstanding at end of the year 30,268,067 1.24 28,763,896 1.04 Exercisable at 31 December 11,700,076 0.93 12,746,176 0.92 The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 have an exercise price in the range of 0.60 to 1.99 2006: 0.60 to 1.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.0 years 2006: 2.8 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1.68 2006: 1.83.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 197 42 Share-based payments continued ii Reconciliation of movements in options continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Options over shares in Old Mutual plc Johannesburg Stock Exchange of options exercise price of options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 37,090,128 R15.47 64,978,907 R14.13 Granted during the year 7,565,967 R23.28 8,733,523 R21.81 Forfeited during the year 688,282 R14.45 1,115,896 R15.24 Exercised during the year 10,075,116 R12.41 33,584,977 R14.47 Expired during the year 188,543 R17.90 1,921,429 R20.16 Outstanding at end of the year 33,704,154 R18.15 37,090,128 R15.47 Exercisable at 31 December 16,199,844 R14.08 5,277,087 R14.86 The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 have an exercise price in the range of R10.80 to R24.78 2006: R10.80 to R24.78 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.5 years 2006: 3.7 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R24.35 2006: R21.24.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Options over shares in Nedbank Group Ltd of options exercise price of options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 42,641,399 R108.04 43,557,432 R102.80 Granted during the year 8,101,157 R141.14 8,435,773 R117.71 Forfeited during the year 2,591,584 R88.30 2,367,175 R83.27 Exercised during the year 3,591,323 R80.82 2,429,160 R80.20 Expired during the year 61,665 R74.81 4,555,471 R96.54 Outstanding at end of the year 44,497,984 R86.94 42,641,399 R108.04 Exercisable at 31 December 2,197,789 R93.52 3,645,448 R101.40 The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 have an exercise price in the range of R45.00 to R282.58 2006: nil to R172.67 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.9 years 2006: 3.2 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R143.43 2006: R124.00.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Options over shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd of options exercise price of options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 7,234,000 R18.82 7,783,050 R18.24 Granted during the year 317,700 R26.04 1,873,200 R24.30 Forfeited during the year 305,500 R19.34 504,550 R20.78 Exercised during the year 825,500 R8.18 1,917,700 R7.57 Outstanding at end of the year 6,420,700 R14.49 7,234,000 R18.82 Exercisable at 31 December 1,206,900 R8.55 903,400 R4.17 The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 have an exercise price in the range of R3.50 to R27.99 2006: R3.35 to R29.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.7 years 2006: 4.5 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R27.12 2006: R30.67.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 198 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 42 Share-based payments continued iii Measurements and assumptions The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have only been applied to equity settled share arrangements granted post November 2002 in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2.
Any options forfeited, exercised or lapsed prior to the IFRS 2 implementation date of 1 January 2005 have not been included in the IFRS 2 valuation.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share options are granted under a service and non-market based performance condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the share options granted.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The grant date for the UK and SA Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan annual awards is deemed to be 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue.
As such the Group is required to estimate, at the reporting date, the number and fair value of the options that will be granted in the following year.
The fair value of awards expected to be granted in 2008 which will have an IFRS 2 grant date of 1 January 2007, is shown separately below.
The grant date for all other awards is the award issue date.
The expected volatility is based on the annualised historic volatility of the share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the date of valuation of the option.
The expected life assumption is based on the average length of time similar grants have remained outstanding in the past and the type of employees to which awards have been granted.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 199 42 Share-based payments continued v Share-based payment arrangements relating to Skandia The Company acquired a controlling shareholding in Skandia on 26 January 2006.
As at that date, there were 25,725,421 options outstanding over Skandia shares, as a result of employee stock option programmes approved at Skandias Annual General Meetings.
Options under these programmes vested after the completion of either one or three years service and had a contractual life of either three years and three months or seven years.
All options were equity settled, with the exception of synthetic stock options offered to employees in certain countries, which were cash settled.
Option holders were not entitled to dividend payments during the vesting period.
Upon the Companys acquisition of its controlling shareholding in Skandia, all outstanding options became vested and had a revised expiry date of 26 July 2006.
The following table presents a reconciliation of movement in options over shares in Skandia from the date of acquisition to the end of 2006: Weighted Number of average Options over shares in Skandia options exercise price Outstanding at 26 January 2006 25,725,421 80.79kr Exercised during the year 5,608,888 20.33kr Expired during the year 20,116,533 97.65kr Outstanding at end of the year vi Share-based payment arrangements relating to US Asset Management During the year ended 31 December 2007, US Asset Management had the following share-based payment arrangements: OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan Equity granted during the year to employees of firms participating in the OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan vests 3 years from the date of grant, conditional upon continued employment over this period.
Fair value was determined based on a multiple of prior year earnings.
Under the terms of the arrangements, no sooner than 4 years from the date of purchase for purchased equity or 4 years from the date of grant for granted equity participating employees can sell their equity back to Old Mutual which acts as a buyer of last resort at a fixed multiple of prior year earnings, subject to certain restrictions.
Accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments, despite the fact the initial purchase and or grants of equity are settled in equity instruments.
Acadian Asset Management AAM Class B equity interests in AAM acquired by employees during the year entitle the participating employees to 28.57 per cent of the earnings of AAM in excess of $120 million, and to a liquidation preference proportionate to their shareholding.
In consideration for the equity acquired, the participating employees agreed to forego a portion of existing long-term incentive payments owed.
The difference between the carrying amount of this consideration and the fair value of the interest acquired was treated as share-based compensation expense.
Fair value was determined based on the discounted projected future cash flows of AAM.
Total Affiliate share Affiliate share minority share Fair value of instruments granted and purchased during the year purchases grants in affiliate 2007 28.6% 28.6% 1 AAM 2006 2007 2.4% 7.3% 9.7% OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan 2006 2007 17 9 26 2 Total fair value of instruments $USm 2006 1 Percentage of Class B equity.
2 Represents fair value in excess of consideration granted for affiliate share purchases.
US Asset Management annual bonus awards The OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan is incorporated into annual bonus awards of employees at participating firms, which are to be settled partly in cash, and partly in equity.
The level of bonus is contingent upon current year financial and individual performance, therefore the vesting period for bonus equity to be granted during 2008 in respect of the 2007 financial year has been determined to commence from 1 January 2007.
It is anticipated that instruments with a fair value of US$2.8 million will be granted during 2008 to firms participating in the OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan based on 2007 financial performance.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 200 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 42 Share-based payments continued vii Restricted share grants The following summarises the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Weighted Number average granted fair value 2007 6,112,787 1.63 UK Restricted Share Plan 2006 5,358,703 1.92 2007 1,865,075 R22.56 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 2006 2,355,480 R23.30 2007 4,970,627 R23.39 OMSA Management Scheme 2006 4,788,114 R21.69 2007 37,211 R23.31 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 2006 2007 439,854 R23.36 Old Mutual Namibia Senior Black Management Scheme 2006 2007 144,000 R21.33 Old Mutual Namibia Broad-based Employee Scheme 2006 2007 179,917 R125.10 Nedbank Group 2005 Matched Share Scheme 2006 153,960 R114.45 2007 72,705 R134.83 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 2006 73,726 R115.15 2007 110,562 R134.88 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 2006 75,968 R112.96 2007 2,137 R118.41 Nedbank Eyethu Retail Scheme 2006 979,726 R99.85 2007 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Black Management Scheme 2006 17,396 R124.70 2007 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Broad-based Employee Scheme 2006 39,816 R124.70 2007 145,770 R25.95 Mutual & Federal Senior Black Management Scheme 2006 107,550 R24.89 2007 95,310 R26.04 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 2006 428,510 R24.43 2007 2,267,136 R27.70 Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners Scheme 2006 3,259,081 R34.25 2007 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad-based Employee Scheme 2006 23,895 R29.40 2007 35,347 R26.33 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business Partners Scheme 2006 248,590 R29.40 2007 13,092 R26.33 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme 2006 92,070 R29.40 2007 15,480 R26.33 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Scheme 2006 108,864 R29.40 The share price at measurement date was used to determine the fair value of the restricted shares.
Expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value where the holder of the restricted share is entitled to dividends throughout the vesting period.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 201 42 Share-based payments continued viii Annual bonus awards The UK and South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plans give rise to annual bonus awards.
The level of annual bonus awards is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of individual and Company performance targets, measured over the financial year prior to the date the employees receive the award.
The accounting grant date for the SA and UK annual bonus plans other than the new joiner and newly qualified grants has therefore been determined as 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue of the grants.
The Group anticipates awards under the South African scheme of 6,456,000 options and 4,721,500 restricted shares.
The options have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using an at the money option assumption.
The restricted shares have been valued using a share price of R22.91.
The Group estimate of the total fair value of the annual bonus expected to be paid in the form of options and restricted shares under the UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan is outlined below.
The fair value is determined by making an estimate of the level of bonus to be paid out following the attainment of personal and Company performance conditions.
Total fair value Vesting m period UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan restricted shares 5 4.2 years UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan options 1 4.2 years ix Financial impact m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Expense arising from equity settled share and share option plans 38 32 Expense arising from cash settled share and share option plans 2 25 36 57 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share awards 26 36 Total intrinsic value liability for vested benefits 10 21 43 Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2007 2006 2005 Final dividend paid 3.65p per 10p share 174 2006 Interim dividend paid 2.1p per 10p share 108 2006 Final dividend paid 4.15p per 10p share 218 2007 Interim dividend paid 2.3p per 10p share 115 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 333 282 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 39 ii 40 39 Dividend payments for the year 373 321 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
The directors are recommending a 2007 final dividend of 4.55p per share, which will be paid on 30 May 2008 to all ordinary equity holders on the register at the close of business on 9 May 2008, being the record date for the dividend.
In accordance with IFRS requirements, no provision has been recognised in respect of this dividend.
In March and November 2007, 22 million and 18 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities March 2006: 22 million and November 2006: 17 million.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 202 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 44 Contingent liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 1,489 1,115 Irrevocable letters of credit 426 334 Secured lending 1,052 1,440 Other contingent liabilities 136 213 Nedbank structured financing Historically a number of the Groups South Africa banking businesses entered into structured finance transactions with third parties using the tax base of these companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the majority of these transactions, the underlying third party has contractually agreed to accept the risk of any tax being imposed by the South African Revenue Service SARS, although the obligation to pay in the first instance rests with the Groups companies.
It is only in limited cases where, for example, the credit quality of a client becomes doubtful, or where the client has specifically contracted out of the re-pricing of additional taxes, that the recovery from a client could be less than the liability that could arise on assessment, in which case provisions are made.
SARS has examined the tax aspects of some of these types of structures and SARS could assess these structures in a manner different to that initially envisaged by the contracting parties.
As a result Group companies could be obliged to pay additional amounts to SARS and recover these from clients under the applicable contractual arrangements.
Skandia Liv Skandia Liv has submitted claims to Skandia relating to compensation for alleged prohibited profit distributions.
These distributions relate to the sale of Skandia Livs asset management business by Skandia to Den Norske Bank in 2002.
The dispute is in arbitration, a ruling is expected in 2008.
American Skandia The sale of American Skandia to Prudential Financial contained customary representations and warranties.
The indemnity in respect of this is limited to US$1 billion.
Investigations by various US regulators have given rise to potential settlements and claims in relation to market timing.
American Skandias exposure to market timing is part of a wider investigation of the US industry.
The exposure is covered by the aforementioned indemnity which also covers the matter of American Skandias failure to administer the annuitisation provisions contained in certain contracts.
This was an administrative error made by the American Skandia business between 1996 and 2003.
Skandia Liv and American Skandia have been provided for in the acquisition accounting.
45 Commitments Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are detailed in the table below.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Investment property 3 1 Property and equipment 66 42 The following table presents the contractual amounts of the Groups off-balance sheet financial instruments that commit it to extend credit to customers.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Original term to maturity of one term or less 1,588 1,372 Original term to maturity of more than one year 96 52 Other commitments, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 237 261 Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and for security deposits relating to local futures, options and stock exchange memberships.
Mandatory reserve deposits are also held with local Central Banks in accordance with statutory requirements.
These deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 203 46 Related parties The Group provides certain pension fund, insurance, banking and financial services to related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
i Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the compensation paid to the Board of Directors as well as their shareholdings in the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 82 to 95. ii Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Directors fees 9 1,014 11 963 Remuneration 13,989 13,533 Cash remuneration 13 8,616 15 9,022 Short-term employee benefits 20 1,319 17 865 Other long-term benefits 12 326 15 849 Share-based payments 17 3,728 11 2,797 15,003 14,496 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Number of Number of Number of options shares Number of options shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Share options Outstanding at beginning of the year 11 15,458 9 16,061 New appointments 2 1,370 4 2,366 Granted during the year 8 1,888 7 1,104 Exercised during the year 11 6,110 10 3,313 Lapsed during the year 1 14 3 760 Outstanding at end of the year 11 12,592 11 15,458 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Number of Number of Number of options shares Number of options shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Restricted shares Outstanding at beginning of the year 13 4,257 8 2,603 New appointments 3 1,333 5 183 Granted during the year 8 1,695 11 1,942 Released during the year 10 1,015 3 471 Outstanding at end of the year 11 6,270 13 4,257 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 204 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 46 Related parties continued iii Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below.
For current accounts positive values indicate assets of the individual whilst for credit cards and mortgages positive values indicate liabilities of the individual.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Current accounts Balance at beginning of the year 7 2,323 2 116 Net movement during the year 2,283 2,415 Foreign exchange movement 24 Balance at end of the year 640 7 2,323 Credit cards Balance at beginning of the year 412 28 Net movement during the year 4 6 Foreign exchange movement 2 Balance at end of the year 516 412 Mortgages Balance at beginning of the year 5 1,643 179 Net movement during the year 2,201 1,943 Interest charged 210 93 Less repayments 2,048 299 Foreign exchange movement 8 173 Balance at end of the year 5 2,014 5 1,643 General insurance contracts Total premium paid during the year 721 525 Claims paid during the year 211 13 Life insurance products Total sum assured value of investment at end of the year 7 3,157 7 1,927 Pensions, termination benefits paid Value of pension plan as at end of the year 13 8,404 12 8,501 Various members of key management personnel hold, and or have at various times during the year held, investments managed by asset management businesses of the Group.
These include unit trusts, mutual funds and hedge funds.
None of the amounts concerned are material in the context of the funds managed by the Group business concerned, and all of the investments have been made by the individuals concerned either on terms which are the same as those available to external clients generally or, where that is not the case, on the same preferential terms as were available to employees of the business generally.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 205 46 Related parties continued iv Skandia Liv  Skandia publ Skandia Liv, is a related party to the Old Mutual Group.
Skandia Liv is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia and its business is conducted on a mutual basis.
For the reasons given in the accounting policies Skandia Livs result is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Material transactions between the Group and the Skandia Liv group in twelve months ended 31 December 2007 were as follows: 1 Agreement in principle and framework agreement on co-operation covering market-related functions and certain staff functions this involves distribution and distribution support, customer service, market communication, administration of group insurance products, and staff and service functions.
Skandia Liv paid 86 million 2006: 104 million for services rendered under this agreement.
2 Premises the Group rents office premises from Skandia Liv.
The Group paid market rents of 14 million 2006: 13 million for these premises.
3 Occupational pensions Skandia Liv provides occupational pensions for the employees of the Group, for which the Group paid 14 million 2006: 12 million.
4 Agreement on IT services the Group provides IT services to Skandia Liv.
The amount charged to Skandia Liv was 7 million 2006: 7 million.
5 With effect on 1 January 2007, Skandia and Skandia Liv entered into a new agreement on the handling of administrative services within the joint-group occupational pensions concept.
This agreement entirely supersedes the previous agreement that applied.
Under the previous agreement, Skandia outsourced the acquisition and a large share of the administration of unit-linked assurance business in the occupational pensions concept to Skandia Liv.
Skandia Liv was remunerated for these services both through policyholder fees and through fees from Skandia.
These fees were to cover Skandia Livs acquisition and administrative costs for this unit-linked assurance.
In connection with the new occupational pensions agreement, the parties have agreed that Skandia have paid a sum to release itself from its future payment obligation under the old agreement.
A one-time payment of 174 million SEK2,360 million has been made by Skandia to Skandia Liv.
Through this one-time settlement, the companies have settled all claims pertaining to services in previous years in the aforementioned outsourced business conducted aside from Skandia Livs ordinary activity as insurer.
Skandia has capitalised this payment as an acquisition cost, and the asset will be amortised over the term of the underlying insurance contracts.
The payment was financed by a loan from Skandias subsidiary Skandia Capital, which in turn financed the transaction through a loan from Skandias parent company, Old Mutual plc.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2007 due from Skandia Liv is 13 million 2006: 37 million.
Various other arrangements exist between the Group and Skandia Liv, principally in respect of provision of accounting, legal and treasury functions, all of which are transacted on an arms length basis.
v Aka Capital Proprietory Limited A Group subsidiary, Nedbank Ltd, sold its 20 per cent interest in Aka Capital Proprietary Limited Aka Capital at arms length, in August 2006, to the other existing Aka Capital shareholders.
These included Mr RJ Khoza, who is a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc, who acquired an additional 4.2 per cent of Aka Capital through a special purpose vehicle SPV for R11.0 million.
Nedbank Ltds Capital Investment Committee approved this transaction in line with its mandate in the normal course of business.
The funding for the acquisition by Mr Khozas SPV was financed by Nedbank Ltd on arms length terms, with R12.8 million of such funding being outstanding at year-end.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 47 Principal subsidiaries and Group enterprises The following table lists the principal Group undertakings whose results are included in the consolidated financial statements.
All shares held are ordinary shares and, except for OM Group UK Ltd, are held indirectly by the Company.
Percentage Name Nature of business holding Country of incorporation Old Mutual South Africa Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Ltd Life assurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Namibia Ltd Life assurance 100 Namibia Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Ltd Asset management 100 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Group Ltd Banking 58 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Ltd Banking 58 Republic of South Africa Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd General insurance 85 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, United States of America Old Mutual U. S. Life Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, United States of America OM Financial Life Insurance Company Life assurance 100 Maryland, United States of America Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd Life assurance 100 Bermuda Dwight Asset Management Company Asset management 100 Delaware, United States of America 1 Acadian Asset Management Asset management 100 Massachusetts, United States of America Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Inc Asset management 100 Nevada, United States of America OM Group UK Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd Life assurance 100 England and Wales  Skandia Life assurance 100 Sweden SkandiaBanken AB Banking 100 Sweden 1 The Group holds 100 per cent Class A shares and 71.43 per cent Class B shares in Acadian Asset Management.
The remaining 28.57 per cent Class B shares are held by the employees as described in note 42 vi.
A complete list of subsidiaries is filed with the UK Registrar of Companies with the annual return.
All the above companies have a year-end of 31 December.
48 Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets investments and loans, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are credit risk, market risk arising from changes in equity, and bond prices, interest and foreign exchange rates, and liquidity risk.
Market risk arises from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements and or conditions.
a Financial Risk Management strategy and policy i Overview The Old Mutual Group operates an Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework containing the following components: a robust risk governance structure: risk appetites established at Group and subsidiary level: Group-wide risk policies: and methodologies that focus on risk identification, risk measurement, risk assessment, action plans, monitoring and reporting.
Group risk principles have been established for each major risk category to which the Group is exposed.
These are designed to provide management teams across the Group with guiding principles within which to manage risks.
Business unit risk policies expand on these principles and contain detailed requirements and or limits for the specific business unit concerned.
Further details regarding the ERM framework and risk governance procedures are contained in the Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters on pages 64 to 81 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 207 48 Financial risk continued a Financial Risk Management strategy and policy continued i Overview continued The Groups exposure to financial risk varies according to the nature of its operations and the location of those operations.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage financial risk separately through its principal operations subject to appropriate central corporate monitoring.
The Groups operations that incur significant financial risk are: Old Mutual plc Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa OMLAC SA Old Mutual US Life OMUSL Skandia, through its unit-linked assurance operations Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd M&F Nedbank Group Nedbank SkandiaBanken The Groups asset management businesses are exposed to financial risk to some extent due to the impact of market fluctuations on revenue levels, which are a function of the value of client portfolios.
This exposure is reduced through asset class and product diversification.
Investment risk is borne principally by the client.
These asset management businesses, together with the long-term insurance operations in the rest of Africa, do not give rise to significant financial risks relative to the Group as a whole, and are therefore not considered further.
ii Old Mutual plc The principal financial risks Old Mutual plc faces, other than those that it is exposed to through its operating entities, relate to credit risk, liquidity risk and currency risk.
Credit risk arises primarily as a result of the exposure to financial institutions with which Old Mutual plc has deposited surplus cash or entered into other financial arrangements, such as forward foreign exchange transactions or interest rate derivatives.
The Old Mutual plc Board controls this risk by setting limits on the level of exposure to individual counterparties.
Liquidity risk is the risk that Old Mutual plc may not be able to pay obligations when due, or provide capital to its subsidiaries when required.
Old Mutual plc mitigates this risk by ensuring it maintains liquid assets and or committed finance facilities sufficient to meet its expected needs.
In terms of currency risk, Old Mutual plcs exposure arises from the fact that the impact on the consolidated results of the Group, insofar as its presentational currency is GBP, whilst the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African Rand, US Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona.
Old Mutual plc seeks to reduce its consolidated exposure to currency fluctuations by hedging a proportion of the currency translation risk of its net investments in its foreign subsidiaries and anticipated cash flows through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The hedging relationships that qualify for hedge accounting are classified as either cash flow hedges or net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements.
Certain transactions undertaken as hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Fair value movements for these derivatives are accounted for in the income statement.
iii Insurance operations The principal financial risks faced by the insurance operations are credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk and, to the extent that those operations have overseas operations with different functional currencies, currency risk.
Each of the insurance operations manages their financial risks using asset and liability management ALM frameworks aimed at matching assets to the liabilities arising as a result of the various type of benefits payable to policyholders, as well as seeking to maximise the return on shareholders funds, all within an acceptable risk framework.
The insurance operations retain substantial financial exposures to the extent that the benefits payable to policyholders are not linked to the performance of the underlying assets and or policyholders enjoy options embedded in their contracts that are not matched by identical options in their investment portfolios.
These exposures include liquidity risk for example where the durations of assets do not match those of the policyholder liabilities they seek to match, credit risk where changes in credit quality of asset portfolios or credit losses cannot be passed on to policyholders and market risk for example in respect of equity holdings in shareholders funds.
iv Banking operations The Groups banking operations incur credit, interest rate and liquidity risk by accepting deposits from customers at both fixed and floating rates and for various periods and seeks to earn above average interest margins by consolidating them and investing in a range of assets, often for longer periods, whilst maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet all claims that might fall due.
Nedbank also incurs credit exposures as a result of entering into guarantees and other commitments such as letters of credit and performance, and other bonds.
Nedbank also trades in financial instruments, taking positions in traded and over the counter instruments including derivatives, in order to take advantage of short-term market movements in equity, bond, currency, interest rate and commodity prices.
Each of the banking operations manages their financial risks using an asset and liability management framework, conducted through formal structures appropriate to their individual businesses.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 48 Financial risk continued b Capital risk management i Overview The Group actively manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
It is critical that the Groups capital management policies are aligned with the Groups overall strategy, business plans and risk appetite.
The Group has a business planning process that runs on an annual cycle with regular updates to projections.
It is through this process, which includes risk and sensitivity analyses of forecasts, that the operating businesses gain approval from the Old Mutual plc Board for their requests for capital.
In terms of general policy, each regulated business is required to hold, as a minimum, capital sufficient to meet the requirements of any applicable regulator in the jurisdictions in which it operates, together with such additional capital as management believes is necessary to ensure that obligations to policyholders and or clients can always be met on a timely basis.
In addition, Old Mutual plc ensures that it can meet its expected capital and financing needs at all times, having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and any strategic initiatives.
The Groups Capital Management Committee GCMC reviews the capital structure regularly.
As part of the review the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Based on the recommendations of the committee, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues, share buybacks as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.
Measures that inform the GCMCs views on the appropriate level of capital for the Group includes shareholder performance objectives, regulatory capital requirements, internal economic capital measures, rating agency expectations and general views on maintaining financial flexibility.
The GCMC is a sub-committee of the Executive Committee of the Board, established to set an appropriate framework and guidelines to ensure the appropriate management of capital, to allocate capital to the various businesses, and to monitor return on allocated capital for each business relative to the agreed hurdle rate.
The GCMC comprises the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc together with certain executives drawn from Old Mutual plc and or its subsidiaries.
Meetings are held as circumstances require and are the body through which requests for capital are submitted outside the business plans.
Management regularly monitors the capital requirements of the Group, taking account of future balance sheet growth, profitability, projected dividend payments and any anticipated regulatory changes, in order to ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet the forecast future minimum capital requirements.
ii Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc is the holding company of the Group and is responsible for the raising and allocation of capital in line with the Groups capital management policies set out above and for ensuring the operational funding and regulatory capital needs of the holding company and its subsidiaries are met at all times.
iii Long-term insurance business operations The regulatory capital position of the Groups long-term insurance operations, based on latest estimates, is summarised as follows: m At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006 South South United Africa United Africa States Europe Restated States Europe Equity shareholders funds 3,980 1,191 3,699 4,053 1,253 2,997 Adjustments to a regulatory basis: Inadmissible assets 22 154 1,049 20 140 897 Other adjustments 831 570 1,505 1,040 704 1,156 Total available capital resources 3,127 467 1,145 2,993 409 944 Total capital requirements local regulatory basis 886 126 211 872 185 249 Overall excess of capital resources over requirements 2,241 341 934 2,121 224 695 m At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006 South South United Africa United Africa States Europe Restated States Europe Capital position at 1 January 2,993 409 944 3,079 487 Earnings after tax 535 19 238 1,026 61 26 Change in admissible assets and other adjustments 194 62 75 202 165 30 Additions from business combinations 991 Capital redemptions new capital 19 3 85 Dividends 613 232 Foreign exchange movements 18 4 35 678 59 9 Capital position at 31 December 3,127 467 1,145 2,993 409 944 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 209 48 Financial risk continued b Capital risk management continued iii Long-term insurance business operations continued South Africa The amounts disclosed above represent the capital position of OMLAC SA and the life business in Namibia.
The calculations are determined in accordance with the requirements of the South African Financial Services Board, using reliable estimates of the regulatory adjustments, as the relevant regulatory returns have yet to be completed.
At 31 December 2007, OMLAC SA s excess assets was 3.5 times 2006: 3.7 times the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for reliable estimates of statutory limitations on the value of certain assets.
OMLAC SA s shareholders funds include its investments in Nedbank 1,633 million 2006: 1,521 million and M&F 404 million 2006: 457 million.
In addition, 516 million 2006: 506 million is invested in the Groups loan notes and 194 million 2006: 475 million is held in intercompany loans.
All intercompany loans are immediately repayable and subject to commercial terms and conditions, with the exception that interest may be waived in certain circumstances.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirement and foreign exchange controls, as determined by the South African Reserve Bank.
The statutory solvency requirement for Namibia is N$4 million 0.3 million 2006: N$4 million 0.3 million.
This has been determined in accordance with local statutory rules.
United States In the case of OMUSL, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of the OMUSL group of companies, including Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company, Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company of New York, OMNIA Life Insurance Company, Americom Life & Annuity Insurance Company, Old Mutual Bermuda Limited and Old Mutual Reassurance Ireland Limited.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the United States, Bermuda and Ireland accordingly.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the entities and the requirement to maintain the minimum statutory capital requirements.
Europe In the case of Skandia, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Continental Europe.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund and maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirements for the territories in question.
iv Banking operations The regulatory capital position of the Groups banking operations, based on latest estimates, is summarised as follows: m 2007 2006 Banking business Africa Europe Africa Europe Equity shareholder funds 1,357 221 1,103 145 Eligible subordinated debt 546 94 377 90 Inadmissible assets 2 2 Other adjustments 20 11 40 26 Total capital resources 1,883 324 1,440 259 Total capital requirement 1,375 194 1,070 220 Excess of capital resources over capital requirement 508 130 370 39 Capital position at 1 January 1,440 259 1,285 Earnings after tax and other increases in reserves 333 74 161 6 Change in admissible assets 35 20 155 21 Additions from business combinations 140 New capital 63 73 90 Net issue of subordinated debt 169 Dividends paid 94 30 Foreign exchange movements 711 204 2 Capital position at 31 December 1,883 324 1,440 259 The above amounts represent the capital positions of Nedbank Limited including the London branch, Imperial Bank Limited and SkandiaBanken AB.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question, and reflect the Groups percentage ownership.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 210 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 48 Financial risk continued c Credit risk i Overall exposure to credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparty will default on its contractual obligation resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and credit rating of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
The Group does not have significant credit exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Nedbanks lending portfolio forms the substantial part of the Groups loans and advances, analysed below.
Credit risk represents the most significant risk type facing Nedbank, accounting for over 70 per cent of its economic capital requirements.
Nedbanks credit risk profile is managed in terms of its credit risk management framework, which encompasses comprehensive credit policy, mandate limits and governance structures, and is approved by the Nedbank Board.
The other major source of credit risk arises predominantly in the Groups insurance operations portfolios of debt and similar securities along with those portfolios of debt instruments held by the banking operations.
Credit risk for these portfolios is managed with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposures to below investment grade holdings.
Other than the above, the Group has other limited credit risk exposures in respect of amounts due from policyholders, intermediaries and reinsurers.
None of the long-term business operations cedes significant risk through reinsurance and any loans to policyholders are secured on the surrender value of the relevant policies.
The credit risk exposure of the Groups South Africa general insurance business, classified as non-current assets held-for-sale, is included in the analysis below.
The table below represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account the value of any collateral obtained.
The total credit exposure also includes potential exposure arising from financial guarantees given by the Group and undrawn loan commitments, which are not yet reflected in the Groups balance sheet.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 615 515 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,394 1,314 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 66 57 Deposits held with reinsurers 215 247 Loans and advances 30,690 26,438 Home loans 12,083 9,780 Commercial mortgages 4,415 3,392 Properties in possession 23 10 Credit cards 541 391 Overdrafts 990 1,075 Policyholder loans 204 192 Other loans to clients 4,729 3,167 Net finance lease and installment debtors 3,866 3,468 Preference shares and debentures 689 500 Factoring accounts 36 61 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 135 309 Term loans 2,988 3,973 Remittances in transit 14 12 Deposits placed under reverse repurchase agreements 429 490 Less: impairment of advances 452 382 Investments and securities 27,802 26,468 Government and  securities 7,234 6,675 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 16,905 16,240 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,489 3,307 Other 174 246 Other assets 1,737 3,141 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,527 1,263 Cash and cash equivalents 3,501 3,101 Financial guarantees and other credit related contingent liabilities 1,691 1,324 Loan commitments and other credit related commitments 4,683 4,210 73,921 68,078 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 211 48 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued ii Loans and advances The table below gives an age analyses of the gross value of loans and advances before impairment provisions recognised in the Groups consolidated balance sheet, representing primarily the exposures of the Groups banking operations.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Neither past due nor impaired 29,794 25,724 Past due but not impaired 559 539 Past due but less than 1 month 338 92 Past due, greater than 1 month but less than 3 months 74 446 Past due, greater than 3 months but less than 6 months 22 Past due, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year 39 1 Past due more than 1 year 86 Impaired loans and advances 789 557 Total of gross loans and advances 31,142 26,820 For the Groups loans and advances portfolios, the type of collateral taken depends on the type of product loan class and the credit quality of the individual borrower.
For credit cards, overdrafts, and term loans generally there is no security taken.
For asset backed finance, mortgage loans, and lease and installment debtors, security is usually taken by way of a charge over the underlying assets.
iii Debt instruments and similar securities The following table shows an analysis of the Groups portfolio of debt and similar securities according to their credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent, by investment grade.
Other debt securities, Government and preference Short-term governmentshares and funds and At 31 December 2007 related securities debentures securities Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 5,122 14,229 2,969 22,320 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 296 296 Not rated 2,112 2,380 520 5,012 7,234 16,905 3,489 27,628 Other debt securities, Government and preference Short-term governmentshares and funds and At 31 December 2006 related securities debentures securities Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 6,627 11,518 3,027 21,172 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 993 10 1,003 Not rated 2,042 1,735 270 4,047 8,669 14,246 3,307 26,222 Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 212 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 48 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued iii Debt instruments and similar securities continued An age analysis of the above portfolio is set out below.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Neither past due nor impaired 27,628 26,222 Past due but not impaired Past due but less than 1 month Past due, greater than 1 month but less than 3 months Past due, greater than 3 months but less than 6 months Past due, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year Past due more than 1 year Impaired instruments Total debt instruments and similar securities 27,628 26,222 In general, no collateral is taken in respect of the Groups holdings of debt instruments and similar securities.
iv Reinsurance assets The following table shows an analysis of the Groups balance sheet exposure to reinsurers according to the individual reinsurers credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent.
Reinsurers share of long-term Reinsurers share business of general Deposits policyholder insurance held with At 31 December 2007 liabilities liabilities reinsurers Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 1,375 66 215 1,656 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 1 1 Not rated 18 18 1,394 66 215 1,675 Reinsurers share of long-term Reinsurers share business of general Deposits policyholder insurance held with At 31 December 2006 liabilities liabilities reinsurers Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 1,314 57 247 1,618 1,314 57 247 1,618 An age analysis of the above portfolio is set out below.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Neither past due nor impaired 1,668 1,618 Past due but not impaired 7 Past due but less than 1 month Past due, greater than 1 month but less than 3 months Past due, greater than 3 months but less than 6 months Past due, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year 7 Past due more than 1 year Impaired reinsurance assets Total reinsurance assets 1,675 1,618 Collateral is not taken against reinsurance assets or deposits held with reinsurers other than in limited circumstances.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 213 48 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued v Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained Set out below is an analysis of the collateral obtained and held at the end of the year, principally in respect of defaults by banking customers.
It is the policy of the banking operations to dispose of the collateral held in the most efficient way possible, subject to suitable levels of recovery, in order to limit the extent of the losses on amounts advanced.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Nature and carrying amount of assets held Residential property 22 10 Deposits owing to reinsurers 9 9 Other 4 35 19 d Market risk i Overview Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact arising from the changes in values of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups businesses depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
Each of the Groups business units has an established set of policies, principles and governance processes to manage market risk within their individual businesses and in accordance with their local regulatory requirements.
A monitoring process established at a Group level overlies these individual approaches to the management of market risk.
The impacts of changes in market risk are monitored and managed by way of sensitivity analyses, through the business units own regulatory processes, with reference to the Groups economic capital processes, and by other means.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings, capital position and embedded value is monitored through the Groups embedded value reporting processes.
ii Insurance operations For the Groups insurance operations, equity and property price risk and interest rate risk on the value of the securities are modelled in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
In South Africa the stock selection and investment analysis process is supported by a well-developed research function.
For fixed annuities, market risks are managed where possible by investing in fixed interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on policies that include specific guarantees and where shareholders carry the investment risk, principally reside in the South African guaranteed nonprofit annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are also suitably matched based upon comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared, is minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
In the US, for fixed annuities, policyholder option risk is managed by investing in fixed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash flows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any mismatch is not material.
In addition, extensive interest rate scenario testing is carried out, as required by US regulatory authorities, in order to ensure that the amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
The guaranteed returns provided under equity index annuities are dynamically hedged to ensure a close matching of option or futures payoffs to the liability growth.
Hedging positions are reviewed daily to re-adjust them as necessary.
In Skandias unit-linked assurance operations, the Group has limited exposure to the volatility from equity markets, because in the main, equity price risk is borne by policyholders subject to the impact on asset-based fees charged on policyholder funds.
In respect of Skandias shareholders funds, equity price risks are addressed in Skandias investment policy, which provides for very limited opportunity for business units to invest their own capital in equities or in units in equity funds.
In some areas of Skandias business, most notably its traditional life insurance business, Skandia is exposed to market risks arising from various forms of guarantees.
Typically the policyholder is guaranteed a certain return regardless of the asset return achieved during the term of the policy.
These risks are closely monitored and mitigated by applying asset and liability management techniques, ensuring that the proceeds from sale of assets are sufficient to meet the obligations to policyholders.
Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in market prices arising in the Groups insurance operations are set out in the European Embedded Value supplementary basis information section of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 259 to 261.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 48 Financial risk continued d Market risk continued iii Banking operations The principal market risks arising in the Groups banking operations arise from: trading risk in Nedbank Capital: and banking book interest rate risk arises from repricing and or maturity mismatches between on and off-balance sheet components in all banking businesses.
A comprehensive market risk framework is used to ensure that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to achieve effective independent monitoring and management of market risk.
Trading risk Market risk exposures from trading activities at Nedbank Capital are measured using Value-at-Risk VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis, and stress-scenario analysis, and limit structures are set accordingly.
The VaR risk measure estimates the potential loss in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a specified confidence level.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between products and markets.
Risks can be measured consistently across all markets and products, and risk measures can be aggregated to arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99 per cent VaR number used by Nedbank represents the overnight loss that has less than 1 per cent chance of occurring under normal market conditions.
m Historical VaR one-day, 99 per cent by risk type Average Minimum Maximum Year-end At 31 December 2007 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.5 0.3 Interest rate 1.0 0.7 1.6 1.0 Equity products 0.9 0.4 2.0 0.5 Diversification 0.3 0.2 Total VaR exposure 1.8 1.1 4.1 1.6 m Historical VaR one-day, 99 per cent by risk type Average Minimum Maximum Year-end At 31 December 2006 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.1 Interest rate 1.3 0.6 1.8 0.9 Equity products 1.2 0.4 2.2 1.6 Diversification 0.5 0.4 Total VaR exposure 2.2 1.1 4.5 2.2 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 215 48 Financial risk continued d Market risk continued iii Banking operations continued Banking book interest rate risk Banking book interest rate risk at Nedbank arises because: the bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits: funding is prudently raised across the curve at fixed-term deposit rates that reprice only on maturity: short-term demand-funding products reprice to different short-end base rates: certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive: and the bank has a mismatch in net non-rate-sensitive balances, including shareholders funds, that do not reprice for interest rate changes.
Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking book.
This includes static reprice gap analysis and a point-in-time interest income stress testing for parallel interest rate moves over a forward-looking 12-month period.
At 31 December 2007 the sensitivity of the banking book to a 1 per cent parallel reduction in interest rates was 1.7 per cent 2006: 2.3 per cent of Nedbanks total equity.
The table below shows the repricing profile of Nedbanks banking book balance sheet, which highlights the fact that assets reprice quicker than liabilities following derivative hedging activities.
m Up to 3 3 6 6 months 1 5 Over 5 Trading and Interest rate repricing gap months months 1 year years years non-rate Total At 31 December 2007 Total assets 27,972 343 288 1,699 911 4,720 35,933 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 20,683 1,348 3,186 1,166 407 8,743 35,933 Interest rate hedging activities 3,122 1,777 2,557 998 214 Repricing profile 4,166 128 342 35 291 4,022 Cumulative repricing profile 4,166 4,038 3,696 3,731 4,022 Expressed as a % of total assets 11.6 11.2 10.3 10.4 11.2 m Up to 3 3 6 6 months 1 5 Over 5 Trading and Interest rate repricing gap months months 1 year years years non-rate Total At 31 December 2006 Total assets 21,786 291 362 1,805 786 6,043 31,073 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 17,639 1,110 2,219 582 153 9,370 31,073 Interest rate hedging activities 262 501 492 772 483 Repricing profile 4,409 318 1,365 450 150 3,326 Cumulative repricing profile 4,409 4,091 2,726 3,176 3,326 Expressed as a % of total assets 14.2 13.2 8.8 10.2 10.7 SkandiaBanken has low sensitivity to interest rate risk.
The majority of SkandiaBankens deposit taking and lending activity, after risk coverage, is short-term, which means that interest rates are changed to reflect the situation in the money market.
The interest rate risk that arises from mismatching of fixed rates of interest is reduced through interest rate swap agreements.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 48 Financial risk continued e Currency risk The Group is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Groups functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
The Group reduces this risk through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The table below shows the Groups balance sheet by major currency at 31 December 2007. m At 31 December 2007 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 446 1,732 1,105 866 1,190 120 5,459 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks611 4 615 Property, plant and equipment 530 24 20 5 3 26 608 Investment property 1,117 361 1 1,479 Deferred tax assets 120 41 431 17 77 3 683 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 66 25 10 81 Deferred acquisition costs 96 513 1,423 138 13 70 2,253 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 17 702 663 1 4 7 1,394 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities Deposits held with reinsurers 213 213 Loans and advances 24,831 373 1,610 106 1,309 2,458 30,687 Investments and securities 26,347 28,465 20,253 5,958 7,699 1,498 90,220 Current tax receivable 768 1 783 Client indebtedness for acceptances 158 4 3 165 Other assets 1,126 314 502 140 40 59 2,181 Derivative financial instruments assets 700 98 647 66 15 1 1,527 Cash and cash equivalents 861 1,722 371 114 174 575 3,469 Non-current assets held-for-sale 542 6 4 6 526 533 1,617 57,575 34,444 27,246 7,418 10,702 5,349 142,734 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 25,663 31,347 13,862 2,976 7,773 2,630 84,251 General insurance liabilities Third party interests in consolidation of funds 488 1,406 147 1,506 3,547 Borrowed funds 1,076 384 132 580 177 4 2,353 Provisions 155 165 79 4 82 14 499 Deferred revenue 28 340 58 36 462 Deferred tax liabilities 405 339 399 160 100 10 1,413 Current tax payable 176 119 8647 320 Other liabilities 3,187 1,621 938 172 169 93 6,180 Liabilities under acceptances 158 1 4 2 165 Amounts owed to bank depositors 24,672 696 1,786 138 1,700 2,825 31,817 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 949 105 621 4 37 1,716 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 358 6 50 414 57,315 36,523 17,976 4,104 11,548 5,671 133,137 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 217 48 Financial risk continued e Currency risk continued m At 31 December 2006 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 380 1,877 1,092 954 1,044 20 5,367 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 515 515 Property, plant and equipment 445 20 14 12 6 2 499 Investment property 789 347 2 11 1,149 Deferred tax assets 97 12 328 14 58 2 511 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 69 19 5 83 Deferred acquisition costs 82 302 1,094 81 5 14 1,578 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 16 616 672 3 7 1,314 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 51 6 57 Deposits held with reinsurers 5 28 214 247 Loans and advances 20,144 262 1,946 7 3,680 399 26,438 Investments and securities 23,391 25,710 19,359 5,234 6,508 1,713 81,915 Current tax receivable 15 28 7541 60 Client indebtedness for acceptances 182 3 3 188 Other assets 1,565 20 1,352 106 56 7 3,106 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,140 2 105 1 15 1,263 Cash and cash equivalents 983 1,472 309 140 165 32 3,101 Non-current assets held-for-sale 36 1,129 1,165 49,905 30,690 26,309 7,688 11,762 2,202 128,556 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 23,524 24,628 16,038 4,576 5,490 1,009 75,265 General insurance liabilities 242 6 17 265 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 294 1,064 269 740 674 3,041 Borrowed funds 782 508 127 347 214 1,978 Provisions 197 197 2 12 126 8 542 Deferred revenue 23 227 24 9 283 Deferred tax liabilities 359 390 349 170 118 7 1,393 Current tax payable 139 115 19 6 3 7 283 Other liabilities 760 1,061 2,154 172 319 2,781 7,247 Liabilities under acceptances 180 3 3 2 188 Amounts owed to bank depositors 20,431 596 2,024 3,819 260 27,130 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,026 16 6 8 15 1,071 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 31 1,076 1,107 47,988 28,805 20,991 7,137 10,772 4,100 119,793 A 10 per cent deterioration in the value of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP would result in a reduction in the Groups consolidated equity holders funds of 1,810 million 2006: 1,007 million, and a similar decline in the average exchange rates for the year as set out in note 2 would have led to a reduction in Adjusted operating profit of 146 million 2006: 133 million.
f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Individual businesses separately maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs, within the overall liquidity framework established by Old Mutual plc.
The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities are set out in the appropriate notes to the financial statements.
g Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, and investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group will be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
Total funds under management are disclosed in note 3 iv.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 218 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 49 Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk in the case of long-term business or risk of loss from fire, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is defined as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with significant insurance risk are classified as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignificant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
The Groups approach to financial risk management has been described in note 48. a Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Groups exposure to insurance risk varies depending on the nature of its operations and their location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage insurance risk separately through its principal operations, subject to appropriate central Corporate supervision and monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur significant insurance risk are: OMLAC SA long-term insurance in South Africa Old Mutual US Life long-term insurance in the United States Mutual & Federal general insurance in South Africa The Groups other insurance operations include long-term insurance in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and Latin America, Namibia, and Rest of World but do not give rise to significant insurance risks relative to the Group as a whole.
Exposure to insurance risk in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations is limited, as the unbundled insurance component of those products is insignificant in comparison to the rest of the Old Mutual Group.
Whilst in general the Europe long-term businesses incur only limited insurance risk, the Nordic long-term business does have a portfolio of defined benefit contracts that include guaranteed minimum fund values.
The time-value of these guarantees have been valued using closed form solutions.
The Group effectively manages its insurance risks through the following mechanisms: the diversification of business over several classes of insurance and a number of geographical segments and large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks, by which the Group seeks to reduce variability in loss experience: the maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed: actuarial models, which use the above information to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
Past experience and statistical methods are used: guidelines for concluding insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks.
These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures: reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes.
When selecting a reinsurer, consideration is given to those companies that provide high security.
In order to assess this, rating information from both public and private sources is used: and the mix of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities.
The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are sufficient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities.
Hedging instruments are used at times to limit exposure to equity market and interest rate movements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 219 49 Insurance risk continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States The terms and conditions attaching to insurance contracts determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following tables outline the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts sold in each category of business, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group.
South Africa Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return 1 Individual Life Mortality morbidity rates may Mortality, morbidity Some investment performance, Varies Flexi business with cover be repriced regular premium contracts cover and annuity guarantees 1 Conventional with cover Charges fixed at inception and Mortality, morbidity Some investment performance Varies cannot be changed and annuity guarantees Greenlight Charges fixed at inception and Mortality, morbidity, Rates fixed for a specified None cannot be changed for a specified term expense number of years Group Schemes Charges fixed at inception and Mortality including Rates fixed for a specified None funeral cover cannot be changed for a specified HIV AIDS, expense number of years number of years Employee Benefits Rates are annually renewable Mortality, morbidity No significant guarantees, None Group Assurance except for PHI claims in payment for which benefit payment schedule is guaranteed Non-profit annuity Regular benefit payments guaranteed Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule in return for consideration is guaranteed None 2 With-profit annuity Regular benefit payments participating Investment Underlying pricing interest rate Yes in profits in return for consideration is guaranteed.
Declared bonuses cannot be reduced 1 The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders varies based on the type of contract.
Where the contracts are pure risk type, there is no sharing of investment returns.
For other contracts, investment return is attributed to the policyholder.
Declared bonuses may be either vesting and or non-vesting in which case they can be removed in adverse circumstances.
2 Smoothed bonus products constitute a significant proportion of the business.
Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the declaration of bonuses is done in a responsible manner, such that sufficient reserves are retained for bonus smoothing purposes.
Investment returns not distributed after deducting charges are credited to bonus smoothing reserves, which are used to support subsequent bonus declarations.
United States Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return Life term Renewable term products offering coverage Mortality, expense Premium guarantees from None for level periods ranging from 1 to 30 years 1 to 30 years, return of premium guarantees Universal life Flexible and fixed premium interest sensitive Mortality, expense Secondary non-lapse guarantees Yes, through life insurance with cash value build up max of 15 years or to age 95 : the crediting rate cost of insurance mortality charge guarantees Equity indexed annuities Single and flexible premium accumulation Mortality, investment Minimum caps, maximum Yes, through annuities with upside potential of equity spread guarantees the index indexed returns on their account value Fixed deferred annuities Single and flexible premium accumulation Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed accumulation Limited annuities rates and annuitisation rates crediting rates are reset at specified intervals Equity indexed Flexible premium interest sensitive whole Mortality, investment, Secondary nonlapse guarantees: Yes, through universal life life products with upside potential of equity expense cost of insurance mortality charge the index indexed returns on their account value guarantees: minimum caps: maximum spread guarantees Immediate Payout Regular benefit payments guaranteed Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None Annuities in return for consideration is guaranteed Variable Annuities Accumulation annuities with policyholder Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed, death benefit Yes, through investments in separate accounts and accumulation benefit separate accounts In addition to the specific risks identified above, the Group is subject to the risk that policyholders discontinue the insurance policy, through lapse or surrender.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 220 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 49 Insurance risk continued c Management of insurance risks long-term business The table below summarises the variety of risks to which the Groups long-term insurance business is exposed, and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate these risks.
Risk Definition Risk management Underwriting Misalignment of policyholders to the appropriate Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life pricing basis or impact of anti-selection, resulting in a loss business, mortality rates can be reset.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk.
HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and critical illness cover Impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible by writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
Tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values are conducted.
A negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates.
Medical developments Possible increase in annuity costs due to policyholders For non-profit annuities, improvements to mortality are living longer allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profit or loss is reflected in the bonuses declared.
Changing financial The move to a lower inflationary environment may cause Value of guarantees, determined on a stochastic basis, market conditions more policyholder guarantees to be in the money included in current reserves South Africa.
Fewer and lower guarantees are typically provided on new business South Africa.
Certain guarantees are reinsured United States.
Policyholder behaviour Selection of more expensive options, or lapse and re-entry Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder when premium rates are falling, or termination of policy, behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
which may cause the sale of assets at inopportune times Catastrophe Natural and non-natural disasters, including war terrorism, Catastrophe stop loss excess of loss reinsurance treaty could result in increased mortality risk and payouts on policies in place which covers claims from one incident occurring within a specified period between a range of specified limits.
Policy lapse A policyholder option to terminate the policy, which may Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder cause the sale of assets at inopportune times.
This creates the behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
risk of capital losses and or reinvestment risk if market yields have decreased Many of the above risks are concentrated, either geographically in the case of catastrophe or by line of business for example, medical developments, HIV AIDS.
The Group, through diversification in the types of business it writes and its geographic spread, attempts to mitigate this concentration of risk.
See Segment Analysis, in the preceding section, for illustration of this.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 221 49 Insurance risk continued d Sensitivity analysis long-term business Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract liabilities recorded, with a corresponding impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: offset partial or full through Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation in the case of US business: the effect of locked-in assumptions for payout annuities and term insurance under US GAAP accounting, where assumptions underlying the insurance contract liabilities are not changed until liabilities are not adequate after reflecting current best estimates: and offset to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of mortality assumption changes for with-profit annuity business in South Africa.
The impact on Group equity resulting from a change in insurance contract liabilities or DAC balances at 31 December 2007 for long-term business has been estimated as follows negative impact shown as positive figure : %mm Assumption Change South Africa US Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10 155 1 Mortality rates annuities -10 31 4 Discontinuance rates 10 7 30 Expenses maintenance 10 47 6 The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the South African business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1 per cent would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 41 million 2006: 33 million.
There is no impact for the US businesses as the valuation rate is locked-in.
South Africa The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity reflects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense inflation rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched e. g. non-profit annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
United States The assumption changes have relatively little impact on the US net IFRS insurance contract liabilities or DAC on life and immediate annuities, as assumptions are generally locked in.
For universal life and deferred annuities, assumptions supporting the Present Value Future Profits PVFP Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation are periodically updated for actual experience.
Each of these assumption changes would trigger a DAC unlocking.
The assumption changes specified do not approach the levels necessary to trigger a change in liabilities or DAC.
e Guarantees and options long-term business Many of the insurance contracts issued by the Group contain guarantees and options to policyholders, the ultimate liability for which will depend significantly on the number of policyholders exercising their options and on market and investment conditions applying at that time.
South Africa Certain life assurance contracts include the payment of guaranteed values to policyholders on maturity, death, disability or survival.
The published liabilities include the provision for both the intrinsic and time-value of the options and guarantees.
The time-value of options and guarantees has been valued using a market-consistent stochastic asset model that is in keeping with the applicable professional guidance notes issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA, PGN 110 in particular.
The options and guarantees that could have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows are described below.
The required shock calculations have been performed as at 31 December 2007.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 222 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 49 Insurance risk continued e Guarantees and options long-term business continued South Africa continued Product category Description of options and guarantees Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies in-the-money Individual business Death, disability, point A closed block of unit-linked type and smoothed bonus An insignificant proportion of policies is currently and or maturity business with an underlying minimum growth rate guarantee in-the-money current actual cumulative investment guarantees 4.28 per cent per annum for life and endowment business and return lower than that guaranteed.
On average 4.78 per cent per annum for retirement annuity business, and a 54 per cent fall in asset value is required before smoothed bonus business with vested bonuses, applicable current out-of-the-money policies become when calculating death, disability and maturity claims.
A small block of smoothed bonus savings business in Group None of these policies are currently in-the-money.
Schemes that has death guarantees of premiums net of fees On average a 53 per cent fall in asset value is plus 4.25 per cent per annum investment return.
required before current out-of-the-money policies become in-the-money.
Guaranteed annuity Retirement annuities sold prior to June 1997 contain guaranteed A small proportion of policies is currently in-theoptions annuity options, whereby the policyholder has an option to money the current policy value lower than the exchange the full retirement proceeds for a minimum level threshold annuity consideration at which the of annuity income at maturity.
guaranteed annuity option becomes in-the-money.
On average a 250 basis points reduction in yield is required to bring current out-of-the-money policies to become in-the-money.
Group business Vested bonuses in respect There is a significant pre-retirement savings smoothed bonus This business is currently out-of-the-money as the of pre-retirement portfolio.
Vested bonuses affect the calculation of benefit aggregate market value exceeds the vested reserve.
with-profits business payments when a member exits from the scheme as the On average a 34 per cent fall in assets is required face value is paid out.
If, however, a scheme terminates, to cause this block of business to become the lower of face and market value is paid out and the vested in-the-money.
United States Product category Description of options and guarantees Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies in-the-money Death, disability, Crediting rates declared for the fixed deferred annuity block of 28 per cent of policies are currently in-the-money surrender point and or business vest fully.
They are subject to a minimum crediting rate and being credited the minimum rate.
A 300 basis maturity guarantees which is specified in the contract.
Minimum surrender values points drop in interest rates would bring 90 per cent are determined by this rate.
Equity indexed annuities offer minimum crediting rates on the The minimum surrender values of 18 per cent of fixed portion of the product, minimum surrender values based policies are currently in-the-money.
A year of flat on this and credit equity participation annually as a percentage equity markets with no equity credits would bring an of equity growth subject to a maximum percentage.
This equity additional 24 per cent in-themoney.
Two years participation, which is subject to a minimum of zero per cent of no equity credits would result in 31 per cent of therefore vests annually.
The equity exposure is hedged using a dynamic hedging strategy.
The variable annuities offered to off-shore customers through Old Mutual Bermuda can offer minimum death benefit The minimum death benefit of 19 per cent of guarantees.
Death benefits are subject to a minimum of the policies is currently in-the-money.
These risks are sum invested or value at any anniversary date if greater.
50 per cent of variable annuity clients elect a minimum guaranteed account value on maturity.
The universal life policies specify a minimum crediting rate The minimum rate is currently being credited on to accumulate account balances.
Guaranteed annuity All deferred annuities offer a guaranteed annuitisation option The extent to which the policies are currently options on maturity.
The rates are set conservatively and typically have in-the-money is negligible.
very low utilisation as customers in the United States value the choice inherent in a lump-sum payment.
No-lapse guarantees Certain universal life contracts contain a feature that guarantees 17 per cent of policies are currently in-the-money.
that the contract will continue, even if values would otherwise be This risk is reinsured.
insufficient, provided the customer has paid at least a stated amount of premium.
Assets and liabilities for all products are matched by duration and convexity.
Investment mandates constrain tactical mismatches.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 223 49 Insurance risk continued f General insurance risks and sensitivities Mutual & Federal writes the following types of business within its commercial, risk finance and personal divisions: Commercial Risk finance Personal Fire Accident Personal accident Motor Engineering Crop Marine Credit Underwriting guidelines are designed to ensure that underwritten risks are well diversified, and that terms and conditions, including premium rates, appropriately reflect the risk.
Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of risk and exposure at Mutual & Federal.
The Group makes use of a combination of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses and to provide insurance capacity.
Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is limited to approximately 5 million for any one event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, in keeping with accepted market norms.
General insurance risk includes the following risks: occurrence risk the possibility that the number of insured events will differ from those expected: severity risk the possibility that the costs of the events will differ from those expected: and development risk the possibility that changes may occur in the amount of an insurers obligation at the end of a contract period.
An increase of 10 per cent in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 36 million 35 million net of reinsurance.
Similarly, an increase of 10 per cent in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 36 million 35 million net of reinsurance.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classified as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 5 per cent of an average years claim costs.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 224 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 50 Reclassifications i Income statement reclassifications As a result of the treatment of Mutual & Federal as a discontinued operation, together with certain changes in presentation of income statement lines following the implementation of IFRS 7, the 2006 income statement has been restated, as set out in the table below.
m Reclassified as As previously discontinued Year ended 31 December 2006 Notes stated operation Restatements As restated Revenue Gross earned premiums 3 iii 4,713 687 4,026 Outward reinsurance 267 89 178 Net earned premiums 4,446 598 3,848 Investment return non-banking 8 10,439 101 150 10,188 Banking interest and similar income 9 2,441 14 2,427 Banking trading, investment and similar income 10 181 181 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 11 2,171 2,171 Other income 324 17 307 Share of associated undertakings profit after tax 22 6 6 Total revenues 19,827 699 19,128 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 7,958 404 7,554 Reinsurance recoveries 245 29 216 Net claims and benefits incurred 7,713 375 7,338 Change in investment contract liabilities 4,655 4,655 Losses on loans and advances 123 123 Finance costs 12 91 91 Banking interest payable and similar expenses 13 1,461 1,461 Fee and commission expense, and other acquisition costs 14 717 125 592 Other operating and administrative expenses 15 2,773 64 2,709 Change in third party interest in consolidated funds 278 278 Goodwill impairment 4 ii 8 3 5 Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles 4 ii 379 379 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 85 85 Total expenses 18,113 567 17,546 Profit before tax 1,714 132 1,582 Income tax expense 5 i 621 58 563 Profit from continuing operations after tax 1,093 74 1,019 Profit from discontinued operations after tax 33 74 74 Profit after tax for the financial year 1,093 1,093 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 225 50 Reclassifications continued ii Balance sheet reclassifications As part of the implementation of IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, the 2006 balance sheet has been restated to more appropriately reflect the Groups financial assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature and characteristics of those financial instruments.
As a result, a number of the previously disclosed balance sheet headings have been changed or removed and new balance sheet captions have been created.
The analysis below tabulates the reclassification adjustments that have been made.
m As Mandatory previously reserve Reinsurance Loans and Investments Other As At 31 December 2006 stated deposits assets advances and securities adjustments restated Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,367 5,367 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 515 515 Property, plant and equipment 499 499 Investment property 804 345 1,149 Deferred tax assets 511 511 Investments in associated undertakings 83 83 Deferred acquisition costs 1,578 1,578 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,314 1,314 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 57 57 Reinsurers share of insurance contract provisions763 763 Deposits held with reinsurers 247 247 Loans and advances 22,804 3,662 28 26,438 Investments and securities 75 80,852 1,138 81,915 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 73,065 551 3,578 68,618 318 Other financial assets 11,568 10,806 762 Current tax receivable 60 60 Client indebtedness for acceptances 188 188 Other assets 3,635 304 9 345 129 3,106 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,238 25 1,263 Short-term securities 1,819 1,442 377 Cash and cash equivalents 2,951 515 3 662 3,101 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1,165 1,165 Placements with other banks 665 3 662 Total assets 128,575 11 30 128,556 The lines shown in italics above have been removed as part of the restatement.
Financials Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 226 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued 50 Reclassifications continued ii Balance sheet reclassifications continued m As Long-term General Banking previously Investments business insurance related Other As At 31 December 2006 stated and securities liabilities liabilities liabilities adjustments restated Liabilities Insurance contract provisions 22,495 22,230 265 Financial liabilities fair valued through income statement 57,586 55,508 2,078 Long-term business policyholder liabilities 75,265 75,265 General insurance liabilities 265 265 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 3,041 3,041 Borrowed funds 1,676 302 1,978 Provisions 542 542 Deferred revenue 311 28 283 Deferred tax liabilities 1,393 1,393 Current tax payable 283 283 Other liabilities 5,266 2,171 190 7,247 Liabilities under acceptances 188 188 Amounts owed to bank depositors 25,052 2,078 27,130 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,060 11 1,071 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 1,107 1,107 Total liabilities 119,812 11 30 119,793 Net assets 8,763 8,763 The lines shown in italics above have been removed as part of the restatement.
