PIGIT pp49 56 13 6 07 8:03 pm Page 49 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at Perpetual Park, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 1HH at 11.30 am on Thursday 19 July 2007 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
To re-elect Sir Martyn Arbib a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr James DAlbiac a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Antony Hardy a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Ed Burke a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr Vivian Bazalgette a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2007.
To re-appoint the Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Biographies of Directors seeking election or re-election are shown on page 11 of the Annual Report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolution 9 and 10 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 11, 12, 13 and 14 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 9.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,895,354, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the authorised share capital of the Company be increased to 30,000,000 by the creation of 60,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 9 set out above or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 90 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,034,303. and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this PIGIT pp49 56 13 6 07 8:03 pm Page 50 50 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV or V of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 31,008,409: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2008 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 12 months from the passing of this resolution unless the authority is renewed at any other general meeting prior to such time: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
THAT: any shares purchased in accordance with resolution 12, may, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 162D of the Companies Act 1985 as treasury shares.
The holding of treasury shares will be restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any reissue of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 came into force on 1 January, 20 January and 6 April 2007 respectively, as well as changes to the Financial Services Authority's rules for listed companies following implementation of the European Transparency Obligations Directive on 20 January 2007.
These changes have updated and in some instances amended current companies legislation and the regulation of listed companies such as Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc.
This resolution provides, broadly, for the following changes to be made to the Company's Articles of Association, together with some consequential changes, so as to update them to this new legislation and new regulations: a The necessary amendments so as to permit the Company to communicate with shareholders electronically via its website if it chooses, unless a shareholder wishes to receive documents or other information in hard copy, in accordance with the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
If these amendments are adopted, the Company will in future have the option of consulting with its shareholders as to whether or not they wish to continue receiving notices or other documents or information from the Company in hard copy.
As part of such consultation the Company can ask shareholders to elect either to receive future notices or other documents or information in hard copy or to elect to receive them by electronic means.
If a shareholder does not respond to such consultation within 28 days, they would be deemed to have elected to receive future notices or other documents and information from the Company by electronic means.
However, shareholders who make an election or a deemed election to receive notices or other documents or information from PIGIT pp49 56 13 6 07 8:03 pm Page 51 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51 the Company by electronic means would still be able to notify the Company at any time they wish to receive them from the Company in hard copy, and in this respect the future rights of shareholders to receive hard copies of documents or other information would be safeguarded.
b Changes to a number of references to statutory provisions in the Companies Act 1985 which have now been replaced by corresponding provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution That the amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company in the form produced to the Meeting and, for the purpose of identification, initialled by the Chairman and as described in the Notice of AGM dated 19 July 2007 be approved.
Dated this 12 June 2007 By order of the Board INVESCO Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester OX26 4LD: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this Notice.
Appointment of a proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged PIGIT pp49 56 13 6 07 8:03 pm Page 52 52 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued at the office of the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Proxies, Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester OX26 4LD, by not later than 11.30 am on 17 July 2007.
A person entered on the Register of Members at close of business on 17 July 2007 a member is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
There are no service contracts between the Directors and the Company.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company together with the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
