Financial A statements Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background A1: Nature of operations Prudential plc the Company together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Prudential is an international financial services group with its principal operations in the UK, the US and Asia.
The Group operates in the UK through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC, Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, M&G Investment Management Limited and, prior to disposal, Egg Banking plc.
On 29 January 2007 the Company announced that it had entered into a binding agreement to sell its Egg banking business to Citi, as described in note I6.
On 1 May 2007, the Company completed the sale.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson.
The Group also has operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and other Asian countries.
Prudential offers a wide range of retail financial products and services and asset management services throughout these territories.
The retail financial products and services principally include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective investment services.
Long-term business products written in the UK and Asia are principally with-profits deposit administration, other conventional and unitised with-profits policies and non-participating pension annuities in the course of payment.
Long-term business also includes linked business written in the UK and Asia.
The principal products written by Jackson are interest-sensitive deferred annuities and whole-life policies, variable annuities, guaranteed investment contracts, fixed index deferred annuities and term life insurance.
Prudential plc is a public limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered office is: Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number: 1397169 A2: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
These are presented on pages 290 to 299.
In 2007 the Group adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 1 as amended and amendment to IFRS 4 Implementation Guidance.
The Group has applied all IFRS standards and interpretations adopted by the EU and effective at 31 December 2007.
A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements a Critical accounting policies Prudentials discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudentials consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the EU.
Were the Group to apply IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, as opposed to EU-adopted IFRS, no additional adjustments would be required.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning, the fair value of assets and the declaration of bonus rates.
Prudential bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those described below.
The critical accounting policies in respect of the items discussed below are critical for the Groups results insofar as they relate to the Groups shareholder-financed business, in particular for Jackson.
The policies are not critical in respect of the Groups with-profits business.
Accordingly, explanation is provided in this note and cross-referenced notes as to why the distinction between with-profits business and shareholder-backed business is relevant.
133 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued The items discussed below and in cross-referenced notes explain the effect of changes in estimates and the effect of reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying these estimates as of the latest balance sheet date so as to provide analysis that recognises the different accounting effects on profit and loss or equity.
In order to provide relevant analysis that is appropriate to the circumstances applicable to the Groups businesses, the explanations refer to types of business, fund structure, the relationship between asset and policyholder liability measurement, and the differences in the method of accounting permitted under IFRS 4 for accounting for insurance contract assets, policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the Groups with-profits funds.
Insurance contract accounting With the exception of certain contracts described in note D1, the Groups life assurance contracts are classified as insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
As permitted by IFRS 4, assets and liabilities of these contracts see below are accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
Accordingly, except as described below, the modified statutory basis MSB of reporting as set out in the revised Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in November 2003 has been applied.
In 2005 the Group chose to improve its IFRS accounting for UK regulated with-profits funds by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
Under this standard, the main accounting changes that were required for UK with-profits funds were: Derecognition of deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax: and replacement of MSB liabilities with adjusted realistic basis liabilities.
The results shown for 2007 and 2006 reflect this basis.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
The Group has opted to account for unallocated surplus wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
This treatment reflects the fact that shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution.
Shareholder profits on with-profits business reflect one-ninth of the cost of declared bonus.
For Jackson, applying the MSB as applicable to overseas operations, the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts are accounted for under insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
For the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of Asian operations, the local GAAP is applied with adjustments, where necessary, to comply with UK GAAP.
For the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, countries where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For participating business the liabilities include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that, where appropriate, and in particular for Vietnam, have yet to be declared as bonuses.
The usage of these bases of accounting has varying effects on the way in which product options and guarantees are measured.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, for the 2007 and 2006 results, options and guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The basis is described in note D2 e ii.
For other operations a market consistent basis is not applied under the accounting basis described in note A4.
Details of the guarantees, basis of setting assumptions, and sensitivity to altered assumptions are described in notes D3 and D4.
Valuation and accounting presentation of fair value movements of derivatives and debt securities of Jackson Under IAS 39, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless net investment hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
Except in respect of variable annuity business, the value movements on derivatives held by Jackson are separately identified within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns identified as part of the Groups supplementary analysis of results described below and in note B1.
Derivative value movements in respect of variable annuity business are included within the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
For derivative instruments of Jackson, the Group has considered at length whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: 134 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued IAS 39 hedging criteria have been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: the high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions: the difficulties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book: the complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and finally whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and constraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
In this regard, the issues surrounding IAS 39 application are very similar to those considered by other US life insurers when the US financial reporting standard FAS 133 was first applied for US GAAP reporting.
Taking account of these considerations the Group has decided that, except for certain minor categories of derivatives, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of this decision the total income statement results are more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are reflected within it.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-tomaturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements being recorded as movements within shareholders equity.
Presentation of results before tax The total tax charge for the Group reflects tax that in addition to relating to shareholders profits is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note F5.
However, pre-tax profits are determined after transfers to or from unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
These transfers are in turn determined after taking account of tax borne by with-profits funds.
Consequently reported profit before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders.
In order to provide a measure of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that distinguishes between policyholder and shareholder components.
Supplementary analysis of results and earnings attributable to shareholders For shareholder-backed business, with the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and Egg prior to its sale in 2007 and assets classified as loans and receivables, all financial investments and investment property are designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-profits funds, do not affect directly reported shareholder results.
This is because i the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds are accounted for as liabilities and ii excess or deficits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
However, for shareholder-backed businesses the short-term fluctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results to provide information on results before and after short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as a supplemental measure of its results.
The basis of calculation is disclosed in note A4 d. b Critical accounting estimates and judgements Investments Determining the fair value of unquoted investments The Group holds certain financial investments which are not quoted on active markets.
Their fair values are determined in full or in part by using valuation techniques.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers or by using valuation techniques.
The fair values of investments valued using a valuation technique at 31 December 2007 was 9,854 million 2006: 8,211 million.
Of this amount 5,739 million 2006: 4,503 million is held by with-profits operations, for which value movements do not affect directly shareholder results, and 4,115 million 2006: 3,708 million is held by shareholder-backed operations.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
Additional details are explained in note G1.
135 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Determining impairments relating to financial assets Available-for-sale securities Financial investments carried on an available-for-sale basis are represented by Jacksons and, prior to the sale of Egg in May 2007, Eggs debt securities portfolio.
These are considered to be impaired if there has been a significant or prolonged period of decline in fair value below amortised cost or if there is any other objective evidence of impairment.
The consideration of this requires managements judgement.
Among the factors considered is whether the decline in fair value results from a change in quality of the security itself, or from a downward movement in the market as a whole and the likelihood of recovering the carrying value based on the current and short-term prospects of the issuer.
Unrealised losses that are considered to be primarily the result of market conditions, such as increasing interest rates, unusual market volatility, or industry-related events, and where the Group also believes there is a reasonable expectation for recovery and, furthermore, it has the intent and ability to hold the investment until maturity or the market recovers, are usually determined to be temporary.
Prudentials review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-specific developments and future cash flows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash flow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
Additional details are described in note G5.
Assets held at amortised cost Financial assets classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
In estimating future cash flows, the Group looks at the expected cash flows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include the risk that market results may differ from expectations: facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions: or the Group may later decide to sell the asset as a result of changed circumstances.
The principal holdings of loans and receivables where credit risk was of particular significance were loans and advances to customers held by Egg.
Egg had significant concentrations of credit risk in respect of its unsecured lending on credit cards, personal loans and mortgage lending secured on property in the UK.
The table in note J5 details the movements in the allowance for losses on such loans and advances up to the date of sale.
Changes in the estimates of credit risk in any reporting period could result in a change in the allowance for losses on the loans and advances.
Insurance contracts Product classification IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
If significant insurance risk is transferred by the contract then it is classified as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk but not significant insurance risk are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both insurance and investment, contain discretionary participating features representing the contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits: a that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contract benefits: b whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer: and c that are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
Accordingly, insurers must perform a product classification exercise across their portfolio of contracts issued to determine the allocation to these various categories.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
Except for UK regulated with-profits funds, as described subsequently, this basis has been applied by the Group.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract.
136 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Valuation assumptions i Contracts of with-profits funds The Groups insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features are primarily with-profits and other protection type policies.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, the contract liabilities are valued by reference to the UK Financial Services Authoritys FSA realistic basis.
In aggregate, this basis has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
The basis of determining liabilities for the Groups with-profits business has little or no effect on the results attributable to shareholders.
This is because movements on liabilities of the with-profits funds are absorbed by the unallocated surplus.
Except through indirect effects, or in remote circumstances as described below, changes to liability assumptions are therefore reflected in the carrying value of the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability rather than shareholders equity.
A detailed explanation of the basis of liability measurement is contained in note D2 e ii.
The Groups other with-profits contracts are written in with-profits funds that operate in some of the Groups Asian operations.
The liabilities for these contracts and those of Prudential Annuities Limited, which is a subsidiary company of the PAC with-profits funds, are determined differently.
For these contracts the liabilities are estimated using actuarial methods based on assumptions relating to premiums, interest rates, investment returns, expenses, mortality and surrenders.
The assumptions to which the estimation of these reserves is particularly sensitive are the interest rate used to discount the provision and the assumed future mortality experience of policyholders.
For liabilities determined using the basis described above for UK regulated with-profits funds, and the other liabilities described in the preceding paragraph, changes in estimates arising from the likely range of possible changes in underlying key assumptions have no direct impact on the reported profit.
This lack of sensitivity reflects the with-profits fund structure, basis of distribution, and the application of previous GAAP to the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as permitted by IFRS 4.
Changes in liabilities of these contracts that are caused by altered estimates are absorbed by the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds with no direct effect on shareholders equity.
The Companys obligations and more detail on such circumstances are described in note H14.
ii Other contracts Contracts, other than those of with-profits funds, are written in shareholder-backed operations of the Group.
The significant shareholder-backed product groupings and the factors that may significantly affect IFRS results due to experience against assumptions or changes of assumptions vary significantly between business units.
For some types of business the effect of changes in assumptions may be significant, whilst for others, due to the nature of the product, assumption setting may be of less significance.
The nature of the products and the significance of assumptions are discussed in notes D2, D3 and D4.
From the perspective of shareholder results the key sensitivity relates to assumed future investment returns for the Taiwan life operation as described below.
Jackson Jackson offers individual fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, immediate annuities, variable annuities, individual and variable life insurance and institutional products.
With the exception of institutional products and an incidental amount of business for annuity certain contracts, which are accounted for as investment contracts under IAS 39, all of Jackson life assurance contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 as insurance contracts by applying US GAAP, the previous GAAP used before IFRS adoption.
Under US GAAP the requirements of SFAS 60 Accounting and Reporting for Insurance Enterprises and SFAS 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments apply to these contracts.
The accounting requirements under these standards and the effect of changes in valuation assumptions are considered below for fixed annuity, variable annuity and traditional life insurance contracts.
Fixed annuity contracts, which are investment contracts under US GAAP terminology, are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts, namely deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any premium deficiency, i. e. any probable future loss on the contract.
These types of contract contain considerable interest rate guarantee features.
Notwithstanding the accompanying market risk exposure, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of Jacksons fixed annuity products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
137 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Variable annuity contracts written by Jackson may provide for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal benefit features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate assumptions.
For variable annuity business the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for 2007 and 2006 was 8.4 per cent per annum determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Likely changes to this percentage return are not expected to be significant.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs as described below and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined under SFAS 60 using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and the guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
Asian operations The insurance products written in the Groups Asian operations principally cover with-profits business, unit-linked business, and other non-participating business.
The results of with-profits business are relatively insensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of policyholder liabilities.
As for the UK business, this feature arises because unallocated surplus is accounted for by the Group as a liability.
The results of Asian unit-linked business are also relatively insensitive to changes in estimates or assumptions.
The principal non-participating business in the Groups Asian operations, for which changes in estimates and assumptions are important from year to year, is the traditional whole-life business written in Taiwan.
The premiums for the in-force business for these contracts have been set by the regulator at different points for the industry as a whole.
Premium rates were set to give a guaranteed minimum sum assured on death and a guaranteed surrender value on early surrender based on prevailing interest rates at the time of policy issue.
Premium rates also included an allowance for mortality and expenses.
The required rates of guarantee have fallen over time as interest rates have reduced from a high of eight per cent to current levels of around two per cent.
The current low bond rates in Taiwan gives rise to a negative spread against the majority of these policies.
The current cash costs of funding in force negative spread in Taiwan is around 45 million a year.
The profits attaching to these contracts are particularly affected by the rates of return earned, and estimated to be earned on, the assets held to cover liabilities and on future investment income and contract cash flows.
Under IFRS, the insurance contract liabilities of the Taiwan business are determined on the US GAAP basis as applied previously under UK GAAP.
Under this basis the policy liabilities are calculated on sets of assumptions, which are locked-in at the point of policy inception, and a deferred acquisition cost asset is held in the balance sheet.
The adequacy of the insurance contract liabilities is tested by reference to best estimates of expected investment returns on policy cash flows and reinvested income.
The assumed earned rates are used to discount the future cash flows.
The assumed earned rates consist of a long-term best estimate determined by consideration of long-term market conditions, and rates assumed to be earned in the trending period.
At 31 December 2007 and 2006 it has been assumed that the longer-term bond rate will be attained by 31 December 2013.
The liability adequacy test results are sensitive to the attainment of the trended rates during the trending period and the level of the projected long-term rate.
Details of this sensitivity are shown in note D4 h iii.
Deferred acquisition costs Significant costs are incurred in connection with acquiring new insurance business.
Except for acquisition costs of with-profits contracts of the UK regulated with-profits funds, which are accounted for under the realistic FSA regime as described in note A4, these costs, which vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of new business, are capitalised and amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
The recoverability of the asset is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value of the deferred acquisition cost asset will be necessary.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for shareholder-financed long-term business of Jackson and Asian operations.
The majority of the UK shareholder-backed operations is for individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
138 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Jackson For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on the annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of the Jackson companies, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns as described above.
Asian operations The key shareholder-backed Asian operation is the Taiwan life business.
The sensitivity of the results for this operation, including the potential effect on write-offs of deferred acquisition costs, is significant and is described above.
Pensions The Group applies the requirements of IAS 19, Employee benefits, to its defined benefit pension schemes.
Due to the inclusion of actuarial gains and losses in the income statement rather than being recognised directly in equity, the results of the Group are affected by changes in interest rates for corporate bonds that affect the rate applied to discount projected pension payments and changes in mortality assumptions.
The economic participation in the surplus or deficits attaching to the main Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS and the smaller Scottish Amicable Pensions Scheme SAPS are shared between the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF and shareholder operations.
The economic interest reflects the source of contributions over the scheme life, which in turn reflects the activity of the members during their employment.
In the case of PSPS, movements in the apportionment of the surplus or deficit for PSPS between the WPSF and shareholders funds in 2007 reflect the 70 30 ratio applied to the base deficit position as at 31 December 2005 but with service cost and contributions for ongoing service apportioned by reference to the cost allocation for activity of current employees.
For SAPS the ratio is estimated to be 50 50 between the WPSF and shareholders funds.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the losses can be relieved.
The UK taxation regime applies separate rules to trading and capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a capital or trading nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The judgements made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving at deferred tax balances in the financial statements are discussed in note H4.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment testing requires the exercise of judgement by management as to prospective future cash flows.
A4: Significant accounting policies a Financial instruments other than long-term business contracts classified as financial instruments under IFRS 4 Investment classification Upon initial recognition, financial investments are measured at fair value.
Subsequently, the Group is permitted under IAS 39, subject to specific criteria, to designate its investments as either financial investments at fair value through profit and loss, financial investments held on an available-for-sale basis, financial investments held-to-maturity or loans and receivables.
The Group holds financial investments on the following bases: i Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through profit and loss on inception.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income.
139 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued ii Financial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
These investments are carried at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Except for foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities, not in functional currency, which are included in the income statement, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from equity to the income statement as realised gains or losses.
iii Loans and receivables this comprises investments that have fixed or determinable payments and are not designated as fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
These investments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Group has designated certain financial assets as fair value through profit and loss as these assets are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These assets represent all of the Groups financial assets except all loans and receivables and debt securities held by Jackson and, prior to its sale in May 2007, Egg.
Debt securities held by Jackson and Egg prior to its sale are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The use of the fair value option is consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategies.
The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets with the exception of Eggs loans and advances to customers which were on a settlement day basis.
Use of fair values The Group uses current bid prices to value its quoted investments.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using external broker bid prices.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash flow technique.
Impairments The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets not held at fair value through profit and loss is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that a loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group.
For assets designated as available-for-sale, the impairment is measured as the difference between the amortised cost of the asset and its fair value which is removed from the available-for-sale reserve within equity and recognised in the income statement.
For loans and receivables carried at amortised cost, the impairment amount is the difference between amortised cost and the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Groups policy is that amounts at risk through derivative transactions are covered by cash or by corresponding assets.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This includes fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are met then the following accounting treatments are applied from the date at which the designation is made and the accompanying requisite documentation is in place: i Hedges of net investments in foreign operations the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
ii Fair value hedges movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement.
140 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued iii Cash flow hedges the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
Movements in fair value relating to the ineffective portion are booked in the income statement.
Amounts recognised directly in equity are recorded in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
All derivatives that do not meet the relevant hedging criteria are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
The primary areas of the Groups continuing operations where derivative instruments are held are the UK with-profits funds and annuity business, and Jackson.
In addition, for 2006 and during 2007 to the date of disposal, the Group also entered into significant derivative transactions for its discontinued banking operations.
For the Groups continuing operations, hedge accounting under IAS 39 is not usually applied.
The exceptions, where hedge accounting has been applied in 2007 and 2006, are summarised in note G3.
For UK with-profits funds the derivative programme is undertaken as part of the efficient management of the portfolio as a whole.
As noted in section D2 value movements on the with-profits funds investments are reflected in changes in asset-share liabilities to policyholders or the liability for unallocated surplus.
Shareholders profit or equity is not affected directly by value movements on the derivatives held.
For UK annuity business the derivatives are held as part of the overall matching of asset returns and duration to match, as far as practical, with liabilities to policyholders.
The carrying value of these liabilities is sensitive to the return on the matching financial assets including derivatives held.
Except for the extent of minor mismatching, value movements on derivatives held for this purpose do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
For Jackson an extensive derivative programme is maintained.
Value movements on the derivatives held can be very significant in their effect on shareholder results.
The Group has chosen generally not to seek to construct the Jackson derivative programme so as to facilitate hedge accounting where theoretically possible, under IAS 39.
Further details on this aspect of the Groups financial reporting are described in note A3.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are held by various Group companies including Jackson and, prior to the sale of Egg in the first half of 2007, Egg.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments to create hybrid instruments.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
To further minimise credit risk, the financial condition of counterparties is monitored on a regular basis.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group also derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire.
Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group will derecognise the financial asset where it is deemed that the Group has not retained control of the financial asset.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly derecognised providing all of the following conditions are met: The Group has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects the equivalent amounts from the original asset: the Group is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset: and the Group has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
141 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss Consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategy and the nature of the products concerned, the Group has designated under IAS 39 classification certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss as these instruments are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
b Long-term business contracts Income statement treatment Premiums and claims Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-profits policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-profits and other investment type policies are recognised when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude any taxes or duties assessed based on premiums.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-profits policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when the annuity becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are recorded when paid and death claims are recorded when notified.
For investment contracts which do not contain discretionary participating features, the accounting reflects the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reflected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the balance sheet.
Acquisition costs Costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising costs and certain other costs associated with policy issuance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are specifically identified and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs DAC, which are included as an asset in the balance sheet.
The DAC asset in respect of insurance contracts is amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies, to the extent that the amounts are recoverable out of the margins.
Recoverability of the unamortised DAC asset is assessed at the time of policy issue and reviewed if profit margins have declined.
Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features are required to be accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 and, where relevant, the provisions of IAS 18 in respect of the attaching investment management features of the contracts.
The Groups investment contracts primarily comprise certain unit-linked savings contracts in the UK and Asia and contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms in the US such as guaranteed investment contracts and annuity-certains.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
UK regulated with-profits funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Such policies are called with-profits policies.
Prudential maintains with-profits funds within the Groups long-term business funds, which segregate the assets and liabilities and accumulate the returns related to that with-profits business.
The amounts accumulated in these with-profits funds are available to provide for future policyholder benefit provisions and for bonuses to be distributed to with-profits policyholders.
The bonuses, both annual and final, reflect the right of the with-profits policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-profits funds.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the Board of directors.
The shareholders share currently represents one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for with-profits policies.
142 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued Annual bonuses are declared and credited each year to with-profits policies.
The annual bonuses increase policy benefits and, once credited, become guaranteed.
Annual bonuses are charged to the profit and loss account in the year declared.
Final bonuses are declared each year and accrued for all policies scheduled to mature and for death benefits expected to be paid during the next financial year.
Final bonuses are not guaranteed and are only paid on policies that result from claims through the death of the policyholder or maturity of the policy within the period of declaration or by concession on surrender.
No policyholder benefit provisions are recorded for future annual or final bonus declarations.
The policyholders liabilities of the regulated with-profits funds are accounted for under FRS 27.
FRS 27 is underpinned by the FSAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: A with-profits benefits reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group but are also market consistent.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR and investment policies the Group employs and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that the Group retains in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with managements policy for with-profits funds and the disclosures made in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
Under FRS 27: for the UK with-profits funds: No deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax are recognised: and adjusted realistic basis liabilities instead of MSB liabilities are recognised.
Adjusted realistic basis liabilities represent the Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-profits business included in Form 19 of the FSA regulatory returns, but after excluding the element for the shareholders share of the future bonuses.
This latter item is recognised as a liability for the purposes of regulatory returns but, for accounting purposes under FRS 27, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
Unallocated surplus The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
As allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-profits funds wholly as a liability.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
Other insurance contracts i. e. contracts which contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For these contracts UK GAAP has been applied, which reflects the MSB.
Under this basis the following approach applies: 143 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Other UK insurance contracts Other UK insurance contracts that contain significant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-profit business.
For the purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder benefits are wholly or partly determined by reference to specific investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions were based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect actual experience.
Overseas subsidiaries The assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of overseas subsidiaries are determined initially using local GAAP bases of accounting with subsequent adjustments where necessary to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Jackson The future policyholder benefit provisions for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined using the net level premium method under US GAAP principles and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder benefit provision included within policyholder liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet is the policyholder account balance.
For the business of Jackson, the determination of the expected emergence of margins, against which the amortisation profile of the DAC asset is established, is dependent on certain key assumptions.
For single premium deferred annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns which, for 2007 and 2006, was 8.4 per cent per annum implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on fee income and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis see investment policies above whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson has used shadow accounting.
Under shadow accounting, to the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of DAC and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised directly in equity to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
Asian operations Except for the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, the future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For the Hong Kong business, which is a branch of the PAC, and the Singapore and Malaysian operations the valuation principles and sensitivities to changes of assumptions of conventional with-profits and other protection-type policies are similar to those described above for equivalent products written by the UK operations.
For these three operations the business written is primarily non-participating and linked business.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder benefit provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Where appropriate, liabilities for participating business for these three operations include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
Although the basis of valuation of Prudentials overseas operations is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and ABI SORP, the valuation of policyholder benefit provisions for these businesses may differ from that determined on a UK MSB for UK operations with the same features.
Liability adequacy The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance provisions to ensure that the carrying amounts of provisions less related DAC and present value of in-force business see policy on Business Acquisitions and Disposals is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement.
144 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the Group seeks to reduce loss exposure by reinsuring certain levels of risk in various areas of exposure with other insurance companies or reinsurers.
An asset or liability is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet representing premiums due to or payments due from reinsurers and the share of benefits and claims recoverable from reinsurers.
The measurement of reinsurance assets is consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
Gains arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts by Jackson are deferred and amortised over the contract duration.
Any loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Investment contracts contracts which do not contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar with-profits insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that reflects the hybrid nature of the arrangements whereby part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18.
For those investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
On contract inception, the liability is measured at fair value less incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs.
Remeasurement at future reporting dates is on an amortised cost basis utilising an effective interest rate methodology whereby the interest rate utilised discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability.
Those investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms are designated at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is based upon the fair value of the underlying assets of the fund.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
c Other assets, liabilities, income and expenditure Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those entities it is deemed to control.
The degree of control is determined by the ability of the Group to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits.
Consideration is given to other factors such as potential voting rights.
The Group has consolidated some special purpose entities SPEs, such as funds holding collateralised debt obligations CDOs, where equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties.
These SPEs are consolidated because the Group is deemed to control them under IFRS.
The Group holds investments in internally and externally managed Open-ended Investment Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
The Groups percentage ownership levels in these entities can fluctuate from day to day according to changes in the Groups and third party participation in the funds.
In instances where the Groups ownership of internally managed funds declines marginally below 50 per cent and, based on historical analysis and future expectations the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27.
Where the Group exercises significant influence or has the power to exercise significant influence over an entity, generally through ownership of 20 per cent or more of the entitys voting rights, but does not control the entity, then this is considered to be an investment in an associate.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Groups investments in associates are recorded at the Groups share of the associates net assets.
The carrying value of investments in associates is adjusted each year for the Groups share of the entities profit or loss.
This does not apply to investments in associates held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including the venture capital business or mutual funds and unit trusts, which are carried at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are recognised using proportional consolidation whereby the Groups share of an entitys individual balances are combined line-by-line with similar items into the Group financial statements.
Other interests in entities, where significant influence is not exercised, are carried as investments at fair value through profit and loss.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings in which Prudential has a controlling interest, using accounts drawn up to 31 December 2007 except where entities have non-coterminous year ends.
In such cases, the information consolidated is based on the accounting period of these entities and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the information consolidated is deemed to cover the same period for all entities throughout the Group.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date acquired to the effective date of disposal.
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Results of asset management activities include those for managing internal funds.
145 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Investment properties Investments in leasehold and freehold properties not for occupation by the Group are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups qualified surveyors or professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS guidelines.
The RICS guidelines apply separate assumptions to the value of the land, buildings and tenancy associated with each property.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
The cost of additions and renovations is capitalised and considered when estimating fair value.
Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where a lease has a contingent rent element, the rent is calculated in accordance with individual lease terms and charged as an expense as incurred.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
The largest of these schemes is the PSPS, a defined benefit scheme.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are schemes where the Company pays contributions into a fund and the Company has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions should the assets of that fund be insufficient to pay the employee benefits relating to employee service in both current and prior periods.
Defined benefit schemes are post-employment benefit plans that are not defined contribution schemes.
For the Groups defined benefit schemes, if the present value of the defined benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups balance sheet.
The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the defined benefit obligation.
Estimated future cash flows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of discount on liabilities at the start of the period, less the expected investment return on scheme assets at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are also charged or credited to the income statement.
Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed when due.
Once paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Any prepayments are reflected as an asset on the balance sheet.
Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
The arrangements for distribution to employees of shares held in trust relating to share award plans and for entitlement to dividends depend upon the particular terms of each plan.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of options likely to be exercised at each balance sheet date and adjusts the charge to the income statement accordingly.
Where the share-based payment depends upon vesting outcomes attaching to market-based performance conditions, additional modelling is performed to estimate the fair value of the awards.
No subsequent adjustment is then made to the fair value charge for awards that do not vest on account of these performance conditions not being met.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
None of the trusts that hold shares for employee incentive and savings plans continue to hold these shares once they are issued to employees.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Tax The Groups UK subsidiaries each file separate tax returns.
Jackson and other foreign subsidiaries, where permitted, file consolidated income tax returns.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, where one domestic UK company is a 75 per cent owned subsidiary of another UK company or both are 75 per cent owned subsidiaries of a common parent, the companies are considered to be within the same UK tax group.
For companies within the same tax group, trading profits and losses arising in the same accounting period may be offset for purposes of determining current and deferred taxes.
Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
146 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences, being the difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its value for tax purposes.
IAS 12, Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax related to charges or credits taken directly to equity is also credited or charged directly to equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss.
The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense on with-profits funds attributable to both the policyholders and the shareholders.
Different tax rules apply under UK law depending upon whether the business is life insurance or pension business.
Tax on the life insurance business is based on investment returns less expenses attributable to that business.
Tax on the pension business is based on the shareholders profits or losses attributable to that business.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
Basis of presentation of tax charges Tax charges in the income statement reflect the aggregate of the shareholder tax on the long-term business result and on the Groups other results.
Under UK Listing Authority rules, profit before tax is required to be presented.
This requirement, coupled with the fact that IFRS does not contemplate tax charges which are attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies, necessitates the reporting of total tax charges within the presented results.
The result before all taxes i. e. profit before tax as shown in the income statement represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
Separately within the income statement, profit before tax attributable to shareholders is shown after deduction of taxes attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Tax charges on this measure of profit reflect the tax charges attributable to shareholders.
In determining the tax charges attributable to shareholders, the Group has applied a methodology consistent with that previously applied under UK GAAP reflecting the broad principles underlying the tax legislation of life assurance companies.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment such as owner occupied property, computer equipment and furniture and fixtures, are carried at depreciated cost.
Costs including expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets are capitalised.
Depreciation is calculated and charged on a straight-line basis over an assets estimated useful life.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
If the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount then its carrying value is written down to that recoverable amount.
Leasehold improvements to owner occupied property are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value.
Business acquisitions and disposals Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the costs of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Should the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity exceed the cost of acquisition then this amount is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Revenues and expenses of entities sold during the period are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between sale proceeds, net of selling costs, less the net assets of the entity at the date of disposal.
For life insurance company acquisitions, the adjusted net assets include an identifiable intangible asset for the present value of in-force business which represents the profits that are expected to emerge from the acquired insurance business.
The present value of in-force business is calculated using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses and is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset may also be recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under these contracts.
The Company uses the economic entity method to purchase minority interests.
Under the economic entity method any difference between consideration and the share of net assets acquired is recorded directly in equity.
147 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group balance sheet as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
These cash generating units reflect the smallest group of assets that includes the goodwill and generates cash flows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets.
If the carrying amount of the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount then the goodwill is considered impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement and may not be reversed in future periods.
Acquired intangible assets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are valued at acquisition and carried at cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation calculated is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Rights of offset Assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements are only reported on a net basis when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Segments In accordance with IAS 14, Segment Reporting the Group reports its results and certain other financial information by primary and secondary segments.
The Groups primary segments are its business segments, namely, long-term business, asset management and, prior to the sale of Egg in the first half of 2007, banking operations.
The Groups secondary segments are its geographical segments, namely, UK, US and Asia.
Shareholders dividends Dividends to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
Where scrip dividends are issued, the value of such shares, measured as the amount of the cash dividend alternative, is credited to reserves and the amount in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued is transferred from the share premium account to retained earnings.
Share capital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classified as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
Foreign exchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, i. e. the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates whilst all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component of equity.
Foreign currency borrowings that have been used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates and movements taken directly to shareholders equity.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
d Presentation of supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders The Group provides supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders that distinguishes operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other constituent elements of the total profit.
148 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns The Group continues to use operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as a supplemental measure of its results.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business are based on the expected longer-term rates of return.
Except as discussed below, in determining profit on this basis the following key elements are applied to the results of the Groups shareholder-financed operations.
i Debt securities and equity securities Longer-term investment returns comprise income and longer-term capital returns.
For debt securities the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements.
These are a risk margin reserve based charge for expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured.
ii Derivative value movements Value movements for Jacksons equity-based derivatives and variable annuity product embedded derivatives are included in operating profits based on longer-term investment returns.
The inclusion of these movements is so as to broadly match with the results on the Jackson variable annuity book that pertain to equity market movements.
Other derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
These derivatives are primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly-based hedging programme for features of Jacksons bond portfolio for which value movements are booked directly to shareholders equity rather than income statement and product liabilities for which US GAAP accounting does not reflect the economic features being hedged.
These key elements are of most importance in determining the operating results based on longer-term investment returns of Jackson.
There are three exceptions to the basis described above for determining operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
These are for: Unit-linked and US variable annuity business.
For such business the policyholder liabilities are directly reflective of the asset value movements.
Accordingly all asset value movements are recorded in the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Assets covering non-participating business liabilities that are interest rate sensitive.
For UK annuity business policyholder liabilities are determined by reference to current interest rates.
The value movements of the assets covering liabilities are closely correlated with the related change in liabilities.
Accordingly asset value movements are recorded within the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Policyholder liabilities include a margin for asset defaults which, if they occur, are recorded as a component of short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Participating business for which liabilities include policyholders interest in investment appreciation and other surplus.
For the participating business in Vietnam the bonuses paid in a reporting period and accrued policyholder interest in investment appreciation and other surpluses primarily reflect the level of realised investment gains above contract specific hurdle levels.
For this business operating profit based on longer-term investment returns includes the aggregate of longer-term returns on the relevant investments, a credit or charge equal to movements on the liability for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains net of any recovery of prior deficits on the participating pool, less amortisation over five years of current and prior movements on such credits or charges.
The overall purpose of these adjustments is to ensure that investment returns included in operating results equal longer-term returns but that in any one reporting period movements on liabilities to policyholders caused by investment returns are substantially matched in the presentation of the supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to policyholders.
Items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns but included in profit before tax attributable to shareholders of continuing operations, include short-term fluctuations in investment returns i. e. actual less longer-term returns, actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes and exceptional items.
With the exception of derivatives used for managing equity exposure of Jackson and other derivatives where value movements match other items in operating results based on longer-term investment returns, value movements on derivatives held by Jackson are included within short-term fluctuations.
For the purposes of distinguishing actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes in this analysis, plan assets include Prudential policies held by the schemes.
149 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background continued A5: New accounting pronouncements The following standards, interpretations and amendments have either been effective and adopted in 2007 or have been issued but are not yet effective in 2007, including those which have not yet been adopted in the EU.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that are anticipated to have an impact upon the Groups financial statements have been discussed.
Accounting pronouncements adopted in 2007 IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 replaces IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions, which dealt with disclosures for banking operations, and the disclosure requirements of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The latter, therefore, becomes a standard dealing wholly with presentation of financial instruments.
IFRS 7 is intended to complement the principles for recognising, measuring and presenting financial assets and financial liabilities in IAS 32 and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The objective of IFRS 7 is to require entities to provide disclosures in their financial statements to enable the users of financial statements to evaluate the significance of financial instruments for the entitys financial position and performance and the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments to which the entity is exposed and how the entity manages those risks.
Consequential amendments have been made to other standards as a result of the release of IFRS 7, notably IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 7 was issued in August 2005 and became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Amendment to IFRS 4 Implementation Guidance Revised IFRS 4 implementation guidance was issued in December 2005 and is effective in conjunction with the adoption of IFRS 7 as discussed above.
The revisions relate to disclosures around insurance contracts.
Amendment to IAS 1, Capital Disclosures As a result of the issue of IFRS 7, IAS 1 was amended in August 2005 to include a requirement to disclose information on the entitys objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
This amendment became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The Group adopted IFRS 7, Revised IFRS 4, Implementation Guidance and the Amendment to IAS 1 in 2007.
There is no impact on the profit and shareholders equity of the Group from the adoption of these accounting pronouncements as their provisions relate to disclosure.
The additional disclosures required by IFRS 7, revised IFRS 4 and amendment to IAS 1 are shown in the relevant sections of the notes on the Group financial statements.
The adoption of these pronouncements represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative 2006 figures have been disclosed accordingly.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 9 requires assessment of whether embedded derivatives are required to be separated from the host contract and accounted for as derivatives when the Group first becomes a party to the contracts.
Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contracts that significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contracts, in which case a reassessment is required.
This interpretation became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
The adoption of IFRIC 9 did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
SOP 05-1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprise for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts As explained in note A3, the assets and liabilities of the insurance contracts of Jackson and certain Asian operations, where the local GAAP is not well established, are accounted for based on insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
This is permitted by IFRS 4, where the assets and liabilities of life assurance contracts classified as insurance contracts with discretionary participating features under this standard are accounted for under previously applied GAAP, which in the case of Jackson and these certain Asian operations is US GAAP.
In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA issued SOP 05-1 which affects the US GAAP insurance accounting.
This SOP provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in FAS 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration and for Realised Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
SOP 05-1 sets out conditions to determine whether contract modifications are considered as internal replacements and result in a replacement contract that is substantially changed from the replaced contract.
SOP 05-1 then requires unamortised deferred acquisition costs, unearned revenue liabilities and deferred sales inducement assets from replaced contracts in an internal replacement transaction that results in a substantially changed contract not to be deferred in connection with the replacement contract.
150 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial A statements A5: New accounting pronouncements continued SOP 05-1 became effective and was adopted by Jackson and those certain Asian operations from January 2007.
The adoption of the provisions of SOP 05-1 did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Accounting pronouncements not yet effective IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 requires entities to adopt the management approach to reporting the financial performance of its operating segments.
The amount of each operating segment item to be reported is the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker, which in some instances will be non-GAAP.
IFRS 8 will require the Group to provide an explanation of the basis on which the segment information is prepared and a reconciliation to the amount recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 14, IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset and clarifies the impact of minimum funding requirements on such assets.
It also addresses when a minimum funding requirement might give rise to a liability.
This interpretation is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation The revised version of IAS 1 is aimed at improving users ability to analyse and compare the information given in the financial statements.
The changes require information in financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and introduce a statement of comprehensive income.
The revisions also include changes to the titles of some of the financial statements to reflect their functions more clearly: for example the balance sheet is renamed a statement of financial position, though the new titles are not mandatory.
This revised standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Revised IFRS 3, Business Combinations and Amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 are the outcomes of the second phase of the IASBs and the US Financial Accounting Standards Boards FASB joint business combination project.
The more significant changes from the revised IFRS 3 include: The immediate expensing of acquisition-related costs rather than inclusion in goodwill: recognition and measurement at fair value of contingent consideration at acquisition date with subsequent changes to income: adoption of full goodwill method to measure non-controlling interests.
The amendments to IAS 27 reflect changes to the accounting for non-controlling minority interests.
The revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 are effective for business combinations occurring in the accounting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations The amendment to IFRS 2 clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
It also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
This amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the aforementioned standards, interpretations and amendments on its financial statements.
Apart from IFRS 8, all of the other aforementioned pronouncements have not been adopted for use in the EU at 31 December 2007.
151 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results B1: Supplementary analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders This information is provided as supplementary information under the Groups accounting policies.
It is not required by IFRS standards.
2007 m 2006 m Asian operations note ii Long-term business 189 189 Asset management 72 50 Development expenses 15 15 Total 246 224 US operations notes ii, iii Jackson 444 398 Broker dealer and asset management including Curian losses of 5m 2006: 8m 8 10 Total 452 408 UK operations note ii UK insurance operations 528 500 M&G 254 204 Total 782 704 Other income and expenditure Investment return and other income 86 58 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 168 177 Corporate expenditure: Group Head Office GHO 117 83 Asia Regional Head Office 38 36 note vi Charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes 11 10 Total 248 248 note vii UK restructuring costs 19 38 note i Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 1,213 1,050 note iv Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 137 155 note v Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 90 167 Profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 1,166 1,372 Notes i Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is a supplemental measure of results.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business are based on expected long-term rates of return.
The expected long-term rates of return are intended to reflect historical real rates of return and, where appropriate, current inflation expectations adjusted for consensus economic and investment forecasts.
The significant operations that require adjustment for the difference between actual and long-term investment returns are Jackson and certain businesses of the Groups Asian operations.
The amounts included in operating results for long-term capital returns for debt securities comprise two components.
These are a risk margin reserve based charge for expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related gains and losses for operating results based on longer-term results to the date when sold bonds would otherwise have matured.
ii Effect of changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of determining life assurance liabilities The results of the Groups long-term business operations are affected by changes of assumptions and bases of preparation.
These are described in notes D2 g, D3 g and D4 f. In particular, the operating result for UK insurance operations for 2007 and 2006 benefited from credits of 34 million and 46 million respectively.
The 2007 benefit of 34 million arose on annuity and pension business.
The 2006 credit of 46 million arose from regulatory changes.
iii Jackson operating results based on longer-term investment returns IFRS basis operating profits for US operations include the following amounts net of related change in amortisation of deferred acquisition costs, where applicable so as to derive longer-term investment returns.
2007 2006 m m Debt securities: Amortisation of interest related realised gains and losses 31 38 Risk margin reserve charge for longer-term credit related losses 37 44 Equity type investments: Longer-term returns 47 45 152 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial B statements B1: Supplementary analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders continued Notes continued The risk margin reserve RMR charge for longer-term impairment losses for 2007 is based on an average annual RMR of 21 basis points 2006: 23 basis points on a book value of US$42.7bn 2006: US$43.9bn.
Market value movements on equity-based derivatives and embedded derivatives are also recorded within operating profits based on longer-term investment returns so as to be consistent with the market related effects on fees and reserve movements for equity-based products.
Market value movements on other derivatives are excluded from operating profit, and are included in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
iv Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 2007 2006 m m Asian operations 71 134 Jackson 18 53 UK insurance operations 47 43 Other 1 11 137 155 The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for 2007 primarily reflect temporary market value movements on the portfolio of investments held by the Groups shareholder-backed operations.
There were no default losses in debt securities in 2007.
The short-term fluctuations for Asian operations in 2007 primarily reflect value movements on Vietnam offset by value movements in Taiwan on the value of debt securities arising from increases in interest rates and a 30 million reduction of an investment in a CDO fund, partially offset by strong equity market movements in Vietnam.
For 2006, the 134 million of short-term fluctuations mainly arose in Vietnam due to strong equity returns.
The fluctuations for US operations for the year comprise of the following items: 2007 2006 m m Debt security fluctuations Credit related Actual credit related losses in the year Bond writedowns 35 32 Losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating bonds 51 3 Recoveries reversals 8 10 78 25 Risk margin charge to operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 48 54 30 29 Interest related Actual interest related realised gains losses in year 31 15 Amortisation of current and prior year interest related realised gains and losses to operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 37 45 6 60 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 9 6 Total fluctuations related to debt securities 27 25 Derivatives other than equity related : Market value movement 19 34 Equity type movements: Actual less longer-term return 42 21 Other items 14 23 Total 18 53 In addition, for US operations, included within the movements in shareholders equity is a net reduction in value of Jacksons debt securities of 244 million.
This reduction reflects a combination of increases due to reduction in US interest rates offset by the impact of widened credit spreads in the US bond market.
These movements do not reflect defaults or permanent impairments.
Additional details on the values of the Jackson portfolio are described in note D3.
The fluctuations for the UK insurance operations arise mostly in Prudential Retirement Income Limited, which writes the most significant element of the shareholder-backed annuity business in the UK.
The fluctuations principally reflect the impact of widened credit spreads on the corporate bond securities backing the shareholders equity of the business.
153 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B1: Supplementary analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders continued Notes continued v Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2007 2006 m m Actuarial gains and losses Actual less expected return on scheme assets 8 156 Experience losses on liabilities 14 18 Gains on changes of assumptions for scheme liabilities 317 311 295 485 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 205 318 Total 90 167 Further details on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are shown in note I1.
vi Share-based payments The charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes is for the SAYE and Group performance-related schemes.
vii UK restructuring costs are allocated as follows: 2007 2006 m m UK insurance operations 7 31 M&G 0 2 Unallocated corporate 12 5 19 38 B2: Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in employee share trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups only class of dilutive potential ordinary shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
2007 Net of tax Basic Diluted Before tax Tax Minority and minority earnings earnings B1 F5 interests interests per share per share m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,213 383 4 826 33.8p 33.7p Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 137 26 1 110 4.5 p 4.5 p Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 90 25 65 2.6p 2.7p Based on profit for the year from continuing operations 1,166 382 3 781 31.9p 31.9p Adjustment for post-tax results of discontinued operations 222 19 241 9.9p 9.8p Based on profit for the year 1,388 363 3 1,022 41.8p 41.7p 154 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial B statements B2: Earnings per share continued 2006 Net of tax Basic Diluted Before tax Tax Minority and minority earnings earnings B1 F5 interests interests per share per share m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,050 304 1 745 30.9p 30.9p Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 155 38 2 115 4.8p 4.8p Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 167 50 117 4.8p 4.8p Based on profit for the year from continuing operations 1,372 392 3 977 40.5p 40.5p Adjustment for post-tax results of discontinued operations 150 45 2 103 4.3 p 4.3 p Based on profit for the year 1,222 347 1 874 36.2p 36.2p Discontinued operations relate entirely to UK Banking operations following the sale on 1 May 2007 of Egg Banking plc to Citi.
Note I6 provides details of the sale of Egg.
Number of shares A reconciliation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares used for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is set out as below: 2007 millions 2006 millions Weighted average shares for calculation of basic earnings per share 2,445 2,413 Shares under option at end of year 9 10 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value on assumed option exercise 6 7 Weighted average shares for calculation of diluted earnings per share 2,448 2,416 B3: Dividends 2007 m 2006 m Dividends declared and paid in reporting period Parent company: Interim dividend 2007: 5.70p, 2006: 5.42p per share 140 131 Final dividend for prior period 2006: 11.72p, 2005: 11.02p per share 286 267 Subsidiary company payments to minority interests 5 1 Total 431 399 As a result of shares issued in lieu of dividends of 176 million 2006: 76 million, dividends paid in cash, as set out in the consolidated cash flow statement, were 255 million 2006: 323 million.
2007 m 2006 m Parent company dividends relating to reporting period: Interim dividend 2007: 5.70p, 2006: 5.42p per share 140 131 Final dividend 2007: 12.30p, 2006: 11.72p per share 304 287 Total 444 418 A final dividend of 12.30 pence per share was proposed by the directors on 13 March 2008.
Subject to shareholders approval, the dividend will be paid on 20 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 April 2008.
The dividend will absorb an estimated 304 million of shareholders funds.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered to shareholders.
155 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B4: Exchange translation Exchange movement recorded directly in equity 2007 m 2006 m Asian operations 16 97 US operations 43 384 Unallocated to a segment Central funds 38 257 11 224 The movements reflect the application of year end exchange rates at balance sheet rates and average exchange rates to the income statement.
The movement unallocated to a segment reflects the retranslation of currency borrowings which have been designated as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
Annual premium and contribution equivalents are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Department of Work and Pensions rebate business is classified as single recurrent business.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
The format of the tables shown above is consistent with the distinction between insurance and investment products as applied for previous financial reporting periods.
With the exception of some US institutional business, products categorised as insurance refer to those classified as contracts of long-term insurance business for regulatory reporting purposes, i. e. falling within one of the classes of insurance specified in part II of Schedule 1 to the Regulated Activities Order under FSA regulations.
The details shown above for insurance products include contributions for contracts that are classified under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts as not containing significant insurance risk.
These products are described as investment contracts or other financial instruments under IFRS.
Contracts included in this category are primarily certain unit-linked and similar contracts written in UK insurance operations and Guaranteed Investment Contracts and similar funding agreements written in US operations.
ii Investment products referred to in the table for funds under management above are unit trust, mutual funds and similar types of retail fund management arrangements.
These are unrelated to insurance products that are classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4, as described in the preceding paragraph, although similar IFRS recognition and measurement principles apply to the acquisition costs and fees attaching to this type of business.
US investment products are no longer included in the table above as they are assets under administration rather than funds under management.
iii The tables above include the transfer of 62,000 with-profits annuity policies from Equitable Life on 31 December 2007 with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
The transfer represented APE new business premium of 174 million.
iv The tables for 2006 above include a bulk annuity transaction with the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF with a premium of 560 million.
The transaction reflects the arrangement entered into in June 2006 for the reinsurance of non-profit immediate pension annuity liabilities of SAIF to Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, a shareholder-owned subsidiary of the Group.
SAIF is a closed ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund established by a Court approved Scheme of Arrangement in October 1997, which is solely for the benefit of SAIF policyholders.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of this fund, although they are entitled to investment management fees on this business.
The inclusion of the transaction between SAIF and PRIL as new business in the tables reflects the transfer from SAIF to Prudential shareholders funds of longevity risk, the requirement to set aside supporting capital, and entitlement to surpluses arising on this block of business from the reinsurance arrangement.
For Group reporting purposes the amounts recorded by SAIF and PRIL for the premium are eliminated on consolidation.
v Subsequent to 29 September 2007 following expiry of the previous management agreement CITICPrudential Life Insurance Company Ltd CITIC-Prudential, the Groups life operation in China, has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Prior to this date CITICPrudential was consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking see note H8.
The totals above include 100 per cent of total premiums for CITIC-Prudential up to 29 September 2007 and 50 per cent thereafter, being the Groups share after this date.
158 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial B statements B6: Group balance sheet The Groups primary reporting segments are long-term business, asset management and, prior to disposal, banking.
The Groups secondary reporting segments are geographical, namely the UK, the US, and Asia.
Details of disclosures in accordance with the requirements of IAS 14 for segment assets and liabilities are shown below.
Details of the primary reporting segments are as follows: Long-term business This segment comprises long-term products that contain both a significant and insignificant element of insurance risk.
The products are managed together and not classified in this way other than for accounting purposes.
This segment also includes activity of the PAC with-profits funds venture investments managed by PPM Capital and other investment subsidiaries held for the purpose of supporting the Groups long-term business operations.
Asset management The asset management segment is comprised of both internal and third-party asset management services, inclusive of portfolio and mutual fund management, where the Group acts as an advisor, and broker-dealer activities.
The nature of the products and the managing of the business differ from the risks inherent in the other business segments, and the regulatory environment of the asset management industry differs from that of the other business segments.
Discontinued banking operations This segment, prior to the sale of Egg in the first half of 2007, consisted of products provided by the Groups online banking subsidiary, Egg.
The nature of these products and the managing of the business differed from the risks inherent in the other business segments, and the regulatory environment of the banking industry differed from that of the other business segments.
Note I6 includes details of the disposal of Egg Banking plc in the first half of 2007.
2007 m Long-term Asset Unallocated Intra-group business management to a segment eliminations Total Consolidated total assets 213,323 7,011 4,909 5,499 219,744 Consolidated total liabilities 207,850 5,282 5,808 5,499 213,441 Segment assets by geographical segment UK 161,696 US 42,758 Asia 20,789 Intra-group eliminations 5,499 Total assets per balance sheet 219,744 2006 m Total Discontinued Long-term Asset Unallocated Intra-group continuing banking business management to a segment eliminations operations operations Total Consolidated total assets 201,936 5,565 3,672 4,151 207,022 9,498 216,520 Consolidated total liabilities 196,650 3,923 5,272 4,151 201,694 9,206 210,900 Segment assets by geographical segment UK 165,103 US 39,695 Asia 15,873 Intra-group eliminations 4,151 Total assets per balance sheet 216,520 To explain more comprehensively the assets, liabilities and capital of the Groups businesses it is appropriate to provide an analysis of the Groups balance sheet by a mixture of primary and secondary segments.
159 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B6: Group balance sheet continued This analysis is shown below for the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2007.
2007 m Asset UnalloIntra Insurance operations Total managecated group UK US Asia insurance ment to a eliminaGroup D2 D3 D4 operations E2 segment tions total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 111 111 1,230 1,341 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 157 1,928 745 2,830 6 2,836 H1 Total 157 1,928 856 2,941 1,236 4,177 Intangible assets attributable to PAC with-profits fund: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 192 192 192 Deferred acquisition costs 19 19 19 H2 Total 211 211 211 Total 368 1,928 856 3,152 1,236 4,388 Other non-investment and H3-H6 non-cash assets 4,433 1,651 762 6,846 521 4,457 5,499 6,325 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 13,666 8 14 13,688 13,688 Investments accounted for using the equity method 12 12 Loans 1,245 3,258 1,087 5,590 2,334 7,924 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts  17 86,157 Debt securities 57,180 19,002 6,920 83,102 882 83,984 Other investments 3,391 762 42 4,195 155 46 4,396 Deposits 7,228 258 377 7,863 26 7,889 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 143,539 38,795 18,244 200,578 3,414 58 204,050 H9 Held for sale assets 30 30 30 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 1,869 169 679 2,717 1,840 394 4,951 Total assets 150,239 42,543 20,541 213,323 7,011 4,909 5,499 219,744 160 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial B statements B6: Group balance sheet continued 2007 m Asset UnalloIntra Insurance operations Total managecated group UK US Asia insurance ment to a eliminaGroup D2 D3 D4 operations E2 segment tions total Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 1,364 2,690 1,369 5,423 1,677 899 6,201 Minority interests 42 1 7 50 52 102 Total equity 1,406 2,691 1,376 5,473 1,729 899 6,303 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 82,798 32,926 16,912 132,636 132,636 Investment contract liabilities with G1 discretionary participation features 29,466 84 29,550 29,550 Investment contract liabilities without G1 discretionary participation features 12,073 1,922 37 14,032 14,032 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits D2eii, H12 funds 14,205 146 14,351 14, 351 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 138,542 34,848 17,179 190,569 190,569 Core structural borrowings of shareholderH13 financed operations: Subordinated debt 1,570 1,570 Other 125 125 797 922 Total 125 125 2,367 2,492 Operational borrowings attributable to G1, H13 shareholder-financed operations 12 591 603 1 2,477 3,081 G1, H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 987 987 987 G1, H4, H9, H14, H15 Other non-insurance liabilities 9,292 4,288 1,986 15,566 5,281 964 5,499 16,312 Total liabilities 148,833 39,852 19,165 207,850 5,282 5,808 5,499 213,441 Total equity and liabilities 150,239 42,543 20,541 213,323 7,011 4,909 5,499 219,744 161 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B6: Group balance sheet continued This analysis is shown below for the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2006.
2006 m Asset UnalloIntra Insurance operations Total managecated group Total DisUK US Asia insurance ment to a eliminacontinuing continued Group D2 D3 D4 operations E2 segment tions operations operations total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 111 111 1,230 1,341 1,341 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 167 1,712 612 2,491 6 2,497 2,497 H1 Total 167 1,712 723 2,602 1,236 3,838 3,838 Intangible assets attributable to PAC with-profits fund: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 830 830 830 830 Deferred acquisition costs 31 31 31 31 H2 Total 861 861 861 861 Total 1,028 1,712 723 3,463 1,236 4,699 4,699 Other non-investment and G1, H3-H6 non-cash assets 4,733 1,588 602 6,923 415 2,917 4,151 6,104 342 6,446 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 14,429 20 41 14,490 1 14,491 14,491 Investments accounted for using the equity method 6 6 6 Loans 1,128 3,254 904 5,286 2,181 94 7,561 6,193 13,754 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 60,246 11,710 6,894 78,850 13 29 78,892 78,892 Debt securities 53,461 20,146 5,391 78,998 678 67 79,743 1,976 81,719 Other investments 2,461 542 87 3,090 80 28 3,142 78 3,220 Deposits 6,812 457 408 7,677 10 72 7,759 7,759 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 138,537 36,129 13,725 188,391 2,963 240 191,594 8,247 199,841 H9 Held for sale assets 463 463 463 463 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 1,979 99 618 2,696 951 515 4,162 909 5,071 Total assets 146,740 39,528 15,668 201,936 5,565 3,672 4,151 207,022 9,498 216,520 162 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial B statements B6: Group balance sheet continued 2006 m Asset UnalloIntra Insurance operations Total managecated group Total DisUK US Asia insurance ment to a eliminacontinuing continued Group D2 D3 D4 operations E2 segment tions operations operations total Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 1,263 2,656 1,287 5,206 1,590 1,600 5,196 292 5,488 Minority interests 79 1 80 52 132 132 Total equity 1,342 2,657 1,287 5,286 1,642 1,600 5,328 292 5,620 Liabilities G1 Banking customer accounts 5,554 5,554 Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 80,323 30,184 12,706 123,213 123,213 123,213 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary participation G1 features 28,665 68 28,733 28,733 28,733 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary G1 participation features 11,453 1,562 27 13,042 13,042 13,042 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated D2 e ii, H12 with-profits funds 13,511 88 13,599 13,599 13,599 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 133,952 31,746 12,889 178,587 178,587 178,587 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed H13 operations: Subordinated debt other than Egg 1,538 1,538 1,538 Other 127 127 947 1,074 1,074 2,485 2,612 2,612 H13 Egg subordinated debt 451 451 Total 2,485 2,612 451 3,063 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed G1, H13 operations 11 743 754 4 2,032 2,790 2,819 5,609 Borrowings attributable to G1, H13 with-profits funds 1,776 1,776 1,776 1,776 Other non-insurance G1, H4, H9, H14, H15 liabilities 9,659 4,255 1,492 15,406 3,919 755 4,151 15,929 382 16,311 Total liabilities 145,398 36,871 14,381 196,650 3,923 5,272 4,151 201,694 9,206 210,900 Total equity and liabilities 146,740 39,528 15,668 201,936 5,565 3,672 4,151 207,022 9,498 216,520 163 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B7: Internal funds under management Internal funds under management analysed by business area at 31 December 2007 were as follows: 2007 m 2006 m UK US Asia Total Total Investment property 13,666 8 14 13,688 14,491 Equity securities 60,840 15,507 9,810 86,157 78,892 Debt securities 58,037 19,002 6,945 83,984 79,743 Loans 3,5793,2581,087 7,924 7,561 Other investments 10,809 1,054 434 12,297 10,907 Total continuing operations 146,931 38,829 18,290 204,050 191,594 Discontinued banking operations 8,247 Total internal funds under management 146,931 38,829 18,290 204,050 199,841 164 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial B C statements C: Group risk management i Overview As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups business is the managed acceptance of risk.
The control procedures and systems established within the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
The Groups internal control processes are detailed in the Group Governance Manual.
This is supported by the Group risk framework, which provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management.
Where appropriate, more detailed policies and procedures have been developed at Group and or business unit levels.
These include Group-wide mandatory policies on certain operational rissks, including: health, safety, fraud, money laundering, bribery, business continuity, information security and operational security.
Additional guidelines are provided for some aspects of actuarial and finance activity.
Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The risk governance framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence: Risk management, risk oversight and independent assurance.
Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management and risk control lies with the Board, the Group Chief Executive and the chief executives of each business unit.
Risk oversight is provided by Group-level risk committees, Group Finance Director and the Group Risk function, working with counterparts in the business units in addition to other Group Head Office GHO oversight functions.
Independent assurance on the Groups and business unit internal control and risk management systems is provided by Group-wide Internal Audit reporting to the Group and business unit audit committees.
The Groups risk reporting framework forms an important part of the Groups business planning process.
Business units carry out a review of risks as part of the annual preparation of their three-year business plan.
This involves an assessment of the impact and likelihood of key risks and of the effectiveness of controls in place to manage them, and is reviewed regularly throughout the year.
In addition, business unit dialogue meetings involving Group and business unit executive management are held regularly to review opportunities and risks to business objectives.
Any mitigation strategies involving large transactions e. g. a material derivative transaction would be subject to scrutiny at Group level before implementation.
Additional information on the Groups risk framework is included in the risk management section of the Groups operating and financial review.
The management of the risk attached to the Groups financial instruments and insurance liabilities, together with the interrelationship with the management of capital may be summarised as follows: a Group risk appetite The Group risk appetite framework sets out the Groups overall tolerance to risk exposures, approach to risk return optimisation and management of risk.
The Group risk appetite statements set out the Groups risk tolerance, or risk appetite, to shocks to the key financial risk exposures market, credit and insurance risk.
Aggregate risk limits are defined in terms of earnings volatility and capital requirements: i Earnings volatility: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the volatility of earnings is consistent with stakeholder expectations, b the Group has adequate earnings and cash flows to service debt and expected dividends and c that earnings and cash flows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with the Groups funding strategies.
The two measures used currently are European Embedded Value EEV operating profit and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating profit.
ii Capital requirements: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the Group is economically solvent, b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its business objectives, c supervisory intervention is avoided, d any potential capital strains are identified, and e accessible capital is available to meet business objectives.
The two measures used are EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital requirements and economic capital requirements.
Business units must establish suitable market, credit, underwriting and liquidity limits that maintain financial risk exposures within the defined Group risk appetite.
b Group counterparty exposure limits In addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk, counterparty risk limits are also set at the Group level.
Limits on total Group-wide exposures to a single counterparty are specified for different credit rating buckets.
Actual exposures are monitored against these limits on a quarterly basis.
165 Notes on the Group financial statements C: Group risk management continued i Overview continued c Risk mitigation Prudential employs a range of risk mitigation strategies aimed at reducing the impact of a variety of risks.
Key mitigation strategies include: adjustment of asset portfolios to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or overweight counterparty exposures : use of derivatives to hedge market risks: reinsurance programmes to limit insurance risk: and corporate insurance programmes to limit impact of operational risks.
Revisions to business plans such as reassessment of bonus rates on participating business and scaling back of target new business volumes may also be used as a mitigating strategy.
d Asset liability management The Groups approach is explained in section vi below.
ii Major risks The Group publishes separately within its Group Annual Report a section on key risk factors, which discusses inherent risks in the business and trading environment.
iii Market and financial risks a Equity and interest rate risk Market risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument or, in the case of liabilities of insurance contracts, their carrying value will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Prudential faces equity risk and interest rate risk because most of its assets are investments that are either equity type investments and subject to equity price risk, or bonds, mortgages or cash deposits, the values of which are subject to interest rate risk.
The amount of risk borne by Prudentials shareholders depends on the extent to which its customers share the investment risk through the structure of Prudentials products.
The split of Prudentials investments between equity investments and interest-sensitive instruments depends principally on the type of liabilities supported by those investments and the amount of capital Prudential has available.
The nature of some liabilities allows Prudential to invest a substantial portion of its investment funds in equity and property investments that Prudential believes produce greater returns over the long term.
On the other hand Prudential has some liabilities that contain guaranteed returns and allow instant access for example, interest-sensitive fixed annuities and immediate annuities, which generally will be supported by fixed income investments.
b Foreign exchange risk Prudential faces foreign exchange risk, primarily because its presentation currency is pounds sterling, whereas approximately 54 per cent of Prudentials operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns, as described in note B1, for the year ended 31 December 2007, came from Prudentials US and Asian operations.
The exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed although its impact is reduced by interest payments on foreign currency borrowings and by the adoption of average exchange rates for the translation of foreign currency revenues.
Approximately 70 per cent of the Groups IFRS basis shareholders equity at 31 December 2007 arose in Prudentials US and Asian operations.
To mitigate the exposure of the US component there are US$1.55 billion of borrowings held centrally.
The Group has also entered into a US$2 billion net investment hedge see note G3.
Net of the currency position arising from these instruments some 40 per cent of the Groups shareholders funds are represented by net assets in currencies other than sterling.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Prudential may be unable to meet payment of obligations in a timely manner at a reasonable cost or the risk of unexpected increases in the cost of funding at appropriate maturities or rates.
Liquidity management in each business seeks to ensure that, even under adverse conditions, Prudential has access to the funds necessary to cover surrenders, withdrawals and maturing liabilities.
In practice, most of Prudentials invested assets are marketable securities.
This, combined with the fact that a large proportion of the liabilities contain discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, reduces the liquidity risk.
The Group maintains committed borrowing and securities lending facilities.
d Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty or an issuer of securities, which Prudential holds in its asset portfolio, defaults or another party fails to perform according to the terms of the contract.
Some of Prudentials businesses, in particular Jackson, the PAC withprofits fund, Prudentials UK pension annuity business and, prior to the sale in the first half of 2007, Egg, held large amounts of interest-sensitive investments that contain credit risk on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These expected losses are considered when Prudential determines the crediting rates, deposit rates and premium rates for the products that will be supported by these assets.
The key shareholder businesses exposed to credit risks are Jackson and, prior to disposal, Egg.
Certain over-the-counter derivatives contain a credit risk element that is controlled through evaluation of collateral agreements and master netting agreements on interest rate and currency swaps.
Prudential is also exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
166 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial C statements iii Market and financial risks continued Further analysis of the credit quality for Jackson is shown in note D3 and for discontinued Egg banking operations in note J7.
Additional details on the credit quality of the debt security portfolios of UK and Asian insurance operations are shown in notes D2 and D4.
iv Use of derivatives In the UK and Asia, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce equity and credit risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to facilitate efficient investment management.
In the US, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and to match liabilities under annuity policies, and for certain equity-based product management activities.
Further details of the Groups use of derivatives are explained in note G3.
It is Prudentials policy that cash or corresponding assets cover amounts at risk through derivative transactions.
Derivative financial instruments used to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in long-term investment returns.
v Operational, compliance and fiscal risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes people or systems or from external events.
Operational risk can result from a variety of factors, including failure to obtain proper internal authorisations or maintain internal controls, failure to document transactions properly, failure of operational and information security procedures or other procedural failures, computer system or software failures, other equipment failures, fraud, inadequate training or errors by employees.
Compliance with internal rules and procedures designed to manage these risks is monitored by Prudentials local management boards.
Internal compliance managers who report to the local management boards monitor adherence to local regulatory requirements.
The head of Prudentials Group Compliance function reports directly to the Group Chief Executive who submits regular reports to the Board of Directors.
Compliance risk includes the possibility that transactions may not be enforceable under applicable law or regulation as well as the cost of rectification and fines, and also the possibility that changes in law or regulation could adversely affect Prudentials position.
Prudential seeks to minimise compliance risk by seeking to ensure that transactions are properly authorised and by submitting new or unusual transactions to legal advisers for review.
Prudential is exposed to certain fiscal risks arising from changes in tax laws and enforcement policies and in reviews by taxation authorities of tax positions taken by Prudential in recent years.
Prudential manages this risk and risks associated with changes in other legislation and regulation through ongoing review by relevant departments of proposed changes to legislation and by membership of relevant trade and professional committees involved in commenting on draft proposals in these areas.
vi Asset liability management Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the differing types of liabilities of each business unit.
Stochastic asset-liability modelling is carried out locally by business units to perform dynamic solvency testing and assess capital requirements.
Reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency analysis is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the US, the UK and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation and policyholder behaviour, under a large number of possible scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years or longer, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
This allows the identification of which extreme scenarios will have the most adverse effects and what the best estimate outcome may be.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, are then set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
This differs from a deterministic model, which would only consider the results from one carefully selected scenario.
For businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of fixed income securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
In the UK, the cash flow analysis is used in Prudentials annuity business while, in the US, it is used for its interest-sensitive and fixed index annuities and stable value products such as Guaranteed Investment Contracts GICs.
Perfect matching is not possible for interest-sensitive and fixed index annuities because of the nature of the liabilities which include guaranteed surrender values and options for prepayment contained in the assets.
167 Notes on the Group financial statements C: Group risk management continued vi Asset liability management continued For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the expected future returns on its investments under different scenarios that best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time, while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
All of Prudentials investments are held either for risk management or investment purposes.
This is because almost all of the investments support policyholder or customer liabilities of one form or another.
Any assets that Prudential holds centrally that are not supporting customer liabilities are predominantly invested in short-term fixed income and fixed maturity securities.
vii Regulatory capital requirements Regulatory capital requirements apply at an individual company level for the Group life assurance and asset management business.
These are described in sections D5 and E3 respectively.
Capital requirements also applied for the Groups discontinued banking operations, as described in note J8.
In addition, the Group as a whole is currently subject to the solvency requirements of the Insurance Groups Directive IGD as implemented by the FSA.
Previously, whilst Prudential owned Egg, it was required to comply with the broadly equivalent requirements of the Financial Conglomerates Directive FCD, as implemented by the FSA.
Under both the IGD and FCD a continuous parent company solvency test is applied.
Under this test the surplus capital held in each of the regulated subsidiaries is aggregated with the free assets of non-regulated subsidiaries.
From this total Group borrowings are deducted, other than subordinated debt issues which qualify as capital.
No credit for the benefit of diversification is allowed for under this approach.
The test is passed when this aggregate number is positive, and a negative result at any point in time is a notifiable breach of UK regulatory requirements.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of Prudentials operations, the application of these requirements to Prudential is complex.
In particular, for many of the Groups Asian operations the assets, liabilities and capital requirements have to be recalculated based on FSA regulations as if the companies were directly subject to FSA regulation.
The FSA has established a structure for determining how much hybrid debt can count as capital which is similar to that used for banks.
It categorises capital as Tier 1 equity and preference shares, Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2.
Up to 15 per cent of Tier 1 capital can be in the form of hybrid debt and is called Innovative Tier 1.
At 31 December 2007 the Group held 763 million 31 December 2006: 763 million of Innovative Tier 1 capital in the form of perpetual securities, nil million 250 million of Upper Tier 2 and 932 million 1,103 million of Lower Tier 2 capital.
Further details on these amounts and other Group borrowings are shown in note H13.
At 31 December 2006, Prudential met the requirements of the FCD.
In addition, during 2007, Prudential met the hard test of the FSA under both the FCD and IGD.
The IGD position as at 31 December 2007 will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2008 and at the time of preparation of these financial statements the surplus capital under the test was estimated to be around 1.4 billion.
In addition to obligations under subsidiary and Group regulatory requirements, Prudential applies an economic framework to its management of capital.
Economic capital provides a realistic and consistent view of Prudentials capital requirements, allowing for diversification benefits.
Two types of economic capital approaches are applied.
These are: Group economic capital under which the capital requirement is determinable based on a multi-year projection thus taking into account the long-term nature of Prudentials liabilities: and One-year Value at Risk Capital 1-yr VaR Capital.
This capital is the amount required to withstand a maximum loss over a time period of one year consistent with a confidence level of 99.5 per cent.
In additional to its risk management applications, the 1-yr VaR Capital framework is used for Individual Capital Assessments in the UK and anticipated to form the basis of Prudentials capital modelling for future regulatory reporting developments, such as Solvency II.
168 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial C D statements D: Life assurance businesses D1: Group overview a Products and classification for IFRS reporting The measurement basis of assets and liabilities of long-term business contracts is dependent upon the classification of the contracts under IFRS.
Under IFRS 4, contracts are initially classified as being either insurance contracts, if the level of insurance risk in the contracts is significant, or investment contracts, if the risk is insignificant.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are permitted to be accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
The Group has chosen to adopt this approach.
However, as an improvement to accounting policy, permitted by IFRS 4, the Group has applied the measurement principles for with-profits contracts of UK regulated entities and disclosures of the UK Standard FRS 27 from 1 January 2005.
An explanation of the provisions under FRS 27 is provided in note D2.
Under the previously applied GAAP, UK GAAP, the assets and liabilities of contracts are reported in accordance with the MSB of reporting as set out in the ABI SORP.
The insurance contracts of the Groups shareholder-backed business fall broadly into the following categories: UK insurance operations bulk and individual annuity business, written primarily by Prudential Retirement Income Limited and other categories of non-participating UK business: Jackson fixed and variable annuity business and life insurance: and Prudential Corporation Asia non-participating term, whole life, and unit-linked policies, together with accident and health policies.
Investment contracts Investment contracts are further delineated under IFRS 4 between those with and without discretionary participation features.
For those contracts with discretionary participation features, IFRS 4 also permits the continued application of previously applied GAAP.
The Group has adopted this approach, again subject to the FRS 27 improvement.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract that may diverge from those previously applied.
Contracts of the Group, which are classified as investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, can be summarised as: UK certain unit-linked savings and similar contracts: Jackson GICs and funding agreements minor amounts of annuity certain contracts: and Prudential Corporation Asia minor amounts for a number of small categories of business.
The accounting for the contracts of UK insurance operations and Jacksons GICs and funding agreements are considered in turn below: i Certain UK unit-linked savings and similar contracts Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that it is appropriate to recognise an asset that represents the entitys contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the entity recognises the related revenue.
IAS 18 further reduces the costs potentially capable of deferral to incremental costs only.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
Deferred income reserves These are required to be established under IAS 18 with amortisation over the expected life of the contract.
The majority of the relevant UK contracts are single premium with the initial deferred income reflecting the front-end load i. e. the difference between the premium paid and the amount credited to the unit fund.
Deferred income is amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
The amortisation profile is either on a straight-line basis or, if more appropriate, a further deferral of income recognition is applied.
169 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued i Certain UK unit-linked savings and similar contracts continued Sterling reserves Prudent provisions established for possible future expenses not covered by future margins at a policy level reflecting the regulatory approach in the UK are not permitted under IFRS 4. ii Jackson GICs and funding arrangements Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
The interest rate paid is fixed and established when the contract is issued.
Funding agreements are of a similar nature but the interest rate may be floating, based on a rate linked to an external index.
The US GAAP accounting requirements for such contracts are very similar to those under IFRS on the amortised cost model for liability measurement.
b Concentration of risk i Business accepted The Group has a broadly based exposure to life assurance risk.
This is achieved through the geographical spread of the Groups operations and, within those operations, through a broad mix of product types.
In addition, looking beyond pure insurance risk, the Group considers itself well developed in its approach to assessment of diversification benefits through its economic capital framework that is used for internal business management.
The economic capital methodology seeks to apply a single yardstick to assess and quantify all risks attaching to the Groups insurance business and associated capital requirements.
Prudentials internal Group economic capital requirement is defined as the minimum amount of capital that the Group needs to hold in order to remain economically solvent over a 25-year horizon, given a target probability of insolvency appropriate for AA-rated debt.
The target confidence level is based on historic default rates for AA-rated debt, and varies over the time horizon of the projection.
The economic capital requirement is calculated in respect of existing contractual and discretionary liabilities only, excluding the impact of future new business and dividend distribution.
For the purposes of calculating Group economic capital, Group economic solvency is defined as the position where both: a the capital balance of the parent company is positive, and b all business units are solvent on the applicable local regulatory basis.
This definition of solvency allows the Groups capital position to be assessed on an economic basis while taking into account the actual regulatory constraints at the business unit level.
The Group economic capital position is calculated using the Group Solvency Model GSM an integrated stochastic asset liability model of the Group economic solvency position.
Projected economic scenarios in the GSM are generated using a stochastic economic scenario generator that captures the correlations between different asset classes and geographies.
The Group regularly determines the level of capital required to cover the risks to its existing contractual and discretionary insurance liabilities on an economic basis and its internal target solvency level.
This level of required capital is determined after allowance for diversification across risk and geographies and the capturing of future shareholders transfers from the business units.
This level is then compared with available capital on an equivalent basis i. e. IFRS shareholders equity after eliminating goodwill and including subordinated debt capital and valuation differences.
The required capital is then analysed into its contributing parts by risk type namely market risk including interest and equity risk, credit risk, underwriting, persistency and operational risk.
The largest risk exposure continues to be credit risks which reflect the relative size of exposure in Jackson and the UK shareholder annuities business.
However, credit risk has reduced due to the sale of Egg and Jacksons maturing fixed annuity business.
An example of the diversification benefits for Prudential is that adverse scenarios do not affect all business units in the same way, providing natural hedges within the Group.
For example, the Groups US business is sensitive to increasing interest rates, whereas, in contrast, several business units in Asia benefit from increasing rates.
Conversely, these Asian business units are sensitive towards low interest rates, whereas the US benefits from falling interest rates.
The economic capital framework also takes into account situations where factors are correlated, for example the extent of correlation between Asian and US economies.
ii Ceded business The Group cedes certain business to other insurance companies.
Although the ceding of insurance does not relieve the Group of liability to its policyholders, the Group participates in such agreements for the purpose of managing its loss exposure.
The Group evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentration of credit risk from similar geographic regions, activities or economic characteristics of the reinsurers to minimise its exposure from reinsurer insolvencies.
There are no significant concentrations of reinsurance risk.
At 31 December 2007, 98 per cent of the reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were ceded by the Groups UK and US operations, of which 88 per cent of the balance were from reinsurers with Standard & Poors rating AAand above.
A similar position was held at 31 December 2006.
170 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D1: Group overview continued c Guarantees Notes D2 c, D3 c, D4 b and D4 h provide details of guarantee features of the Groups life assurance products.
In the UK, guarantees of the with-profits products are valued for accounting purposes on a market consistent basis for 2007 as described in section D2 e ii.
The UK business also has products with guaranteed annuity option features, mostly within SAIF, as described in section D2 c. There is little exposure to financial options and guarantees in the shareholder-backed business of the UK operations.
The US business annuity products have a variety of option and guarantee features as described in section D3 c. Jacksons derivative programme seeks to manage the exposures as described in section D3 d. The most significant exposure for the Group arises on Taiwan whole of life policies as described in section D4 h iii.
d Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from insurance contracts The factors that affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from insurance contracts depend upon the businesses concerned as described in subsequent sections.
In general terms, the Group is managed by reference to a combination of measures.
These measures include IFRS basis earnings, net shareholder cash flow to or from business units from or to central funds, and movements in the present value of future expected distributable earnings of in-force long-term insurance business.
The latter item when added to the net assets is commonly referred to as Embedded Value.
The Group prepares and publishes supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV principles issued by the CFO Forum of European Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the addition of Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures published in October 2005.
Key elements of the EEV principles are the approach applied to allowing for risk and the use of best estimate assumptions to project future cash flows arising from the contracts.
The business covered by the EEV basis results includes both investment contracts as well as insurance contracts as defined under IFRS 4.
Investment contracts form a relatively small part of the Groups long-term business as demonstrated by the carrying value of policyholder liabilities shown in the Group balance sheet.
The projected cash flows are those expected to arise under the contracts such as those arising from premiums, claims and expenses after appropriate allowance for future lapse behaviour and mortality and morbidity experience.
The cash flows also include the expected future cash flows on assets covering liabilities and encumbered capital.
Encumbered capital is based on the Groups internal target for economic capital subject to it meeting at least the local statutory minimum requirements.
Economic capital is assessed using internal models but does not take credit for the significant diversification benefits that exist within the Group.
The valuation of the future cash flows also takes account of the time value of option and guarantee features of the Groups long-term business contracts.
The time value reflects the variability of economic outcomes in the future.
Where appropriate, a full stochastic valuation is undertaken to determine the value of the in-force business.
Common principles are adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset model classes, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
In deriving the time value of financial options and guarantees, management actions in response to emerging investment and fund solvency conditions are modelled.
In all instances, the modelled actions are in accordance with approved local practice and therefore reflect the options actually available to management.
For the PAC with-profits sub-fund, the actions are consistent with those set out in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
The present value of the future distributable earnings is calculated using a risk discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and the risks associated with the cash flows that are not otherwise allowed for.
The risk allowance covers market and non-market risks.
Under Capital Asset Pricing Methodology CAPM, the discount rate is determined as the aggregate of the risk-free rate and the risk margin for market risk.
The latter is calculated as the beta multiplied by the equity risk premium.
Under CAPM, the beta of a portfolio or product measures its relative market risk.
The risk discount rates reflect the market risk inherent in each product group and hence the volatility of product cash flows.
They are determined by considering how the profits from each product are impacted by changes in expected returns on various asset classes, and by converting this into a relative rate of return, it is possible to derive a product specific beta.
Product specific discount rates are used in order to reflect the risk profile of each major territory and product group.
No allowance is required for non-market risks where these are assumed to be fully diversifiable.
The majority of non-market risks are considered to be diversifiable.
Finance theory cannot be used to determine the appropriate component of beta for nondiversifiable non-market risks since there is no observable risk premium associated with it that is akin to the equity risk premium.
Recognising this, a pragmatic approach has been used.
A constant margin of 50 basis points 2006: 50 basis points has been added to the risk margin derived for market risk to cover the non-diversifiable non-market risks associated with the business.
For the UK shareholder-backed annuity business an additional margin of 100 basis points was used 2006: 100 basis points.
Product level betas are calculated each year.
They are combined with the most recent product mix to produce appropriate betas and risk discount rates for each major product grouping.
171 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued Details of the key assumptions and sensitivity of the EEV value of in-force business are shown in the sections for each geographic segment that follow in this note.
The sensitivity of the present value of the discounted future cash flows under the EEV methodology is of particular interest.
The sensitivity provides an indication of the movement in the net value ascribable to potential variations in the amounts and timing of future cash flows to shareholders and the uncertainty attached to those cash flows.
e Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks i Overview of risks by business unit The financial assets and liabilities attaching to the Groups life assurance business are, to varying degrees, subject to market and insurance risk and other changes of experience assumptions that may have a material effect on IFRS basis profit or loss and equity.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument or, in the case of liabilities of insurance contracts, their carrying value will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, namely: Currency risk: due to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rate risk: due to changes in market interest rates, and other price risk: due to fluctuations in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
Policyholder liabilities relating to the Groups life assurance businesses are also sensitive to the effects of other changes in experience, or expected future experience, such as for mortality, other insurance risk and lapse risk.
In addition, the profitability of the Groups life assurance businesses and, as described in Section E, Asset management business, is indirectly affected by the performance of the assets covering policyholder liabilities and related capital.
Three key points are to be noted, namely: The Groups with-profit and unit-linked funds absorb most market risk attaching to the funds investments.
Except for second order effects, for example on asset management fees and shareholders share of cost of bonuses for with-profits business, shareholder results are not directly affected by market value movements on the assets of these funds.
The Groups shareholder results are most sensitive to market risks for assets of shareholder-backed business.
The main exposures of the Groups IFRS basis results to market risk for life assurance operations on investments of shareholder-backed business are for debt securities.
The most significant items for which the IFRS basis profit or loss and equity for the Groups life assurance business is sensitive to these variables are shown in the following tables.
The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative size of the sensitivity.
172 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D1: Group overview continued Market and credit risk Type of business Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Indirect exposure Insurance and lapse risk UK insurance operations see also section D2 i With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk to including Prudential subject to smoothing future shareholder Annuities Limited through declared bonuses transfers SAIF sub-fund Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Asset management fees earned by M&G Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Shareholder-backed Credit risk Mortality experience annuity business and assumptions for Interest rate risk for assets longevity in excess of liabilities i. e. representing shareholder capital US insurance operations see also section D3 i All business Currency risk Persistency risk Variable annuity Net effect of market risk arising from incidence of Investment performance business guarantee features and variability of asset management through asset fees offset by derivative hedging programme management fees Fixed indexed Derivative hedge Incidence of equity Spread difference Lapse risk but the annuity business programme to the participation features between earned rate effects of extreme extent not fully hedged and rate credited to events are mitigated against liability and policyholders by the use of fund performance swaption contracts Fixed annuity business Credit risk GIC business Interest rate risk These risks are reflected in volatile profit or loss and shareholders equity for derivative value movements and impairment losses, and, in addition, for shareholders equity for value movements on fixed income securities classified as available for sale under IAS 39 Asian insurance operations see also section D4 h All business Currency risk Persistency risk With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance subject to smoothing through declared bonuses Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance through asset management fees Non-participating business Taiwan Interest rate and price risk Long-term interest rates Other non-participating business Interest rate and price risk Long-term interest rates 173 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued ii IFRS shareholder results Exposures for market and other risk Key Group exposures The IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for UK insurance operations has high potential sensitivity for changes to longevity assumptions affecting the carrying value of liabilities to policyholders for shareholder-backed annuity business.
In addition, at the total IFRS profit level the result is sensitive to temporary value movements on assets backing IFRS equity.
For Jackson at the level of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, the results are sensitive to market conditions to the extent of income earned on spread-based products and equity-based exposure not covered by the equity derivative programmes.
However, the main effect is on Jackson IFRS total profit and equity.
IFRS profit or loss and equity arise from the accounting rather than economic effect of market value movements on assets and derivatives attaching to fixed annuity, term and institutional business.
Jacksons derivative programme is used to substantially mitigate equity market risk attaching to its equity-based products and interest rate risk associated with its spread-based products.
Combined with the spread based nature of Jacksons other products and the US GAAP basis of measuring liabilities to policyholders, Jacksons risk exposure at the operating profit level based on longer-term investment returns is relatively less significant than for other parts of the Group.
However, movements in interest rates and credit spreads materially affect the carrying value of derivatives which are used to manage the liabilities to policyholders and backing investment assets of fixed annuity and other general account business.
Combined with the use of US GAAP measurement for the asset and liabilities for the insurance contracts, which is largely insensitive to current period market movements, the Jackson total profit i. e. including short-term fluctuations in investment returns is very sensitive to market movements.
In addition to these effects the Jackson IFRS equity is sensitive to the impact of interest rate and credit spread movements on the value of fixed income securities.
Movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are included as movement in equity i. e. outside the income statement.
For Asian operations, other than possibly for the impact of any alteration to assumed long-term interest rates in Taiwan, the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is mainly affected by the impact of market levels on unit-linked business persistency, and other insurance risk.
At the total IFRS profit level the Asian result is affected by short-term value movements on the asset portfolio for non-linked shareholder-backed business.
M&G profits are affected primarily by movements in the growth in funds under management and of the effect of any impairment on the loan book of Prudential Capital.
Market and credit risk UK insurance operations With-profits business With-profits business Shareholder results of UK with-profits business are sensitive to market risk only through the indirect effect of investment performance on declared policyholder bonuses.
The investment assets of the PAC with-profits fund are subject to market risk.
However, changes in their carrying value, net of related changes to asset-share liabilities of with-profit contracts, affect the level of unallocated surplus of the fund.
As unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability under IFRS, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
The shareholder results of the UK with-profits fund correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses declared on the with-profits business.
This currently corresponds to one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared.
Investment performance is a key driver of bonuses, and hence the shareholders share of cost of bonuses.
Due to the smoothed basis of bonus declaration the sensitivity to investment performance in a single year is low.
However, over multiple periods it is important.
Prudential Annuities Limited PAL PALs business is not with-profit: it writes annuity business.
However, as PAL is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund, changes in the carrying value of PALs assets and liabilities are reflected in the liability for unallocated surplus which as described above, changes to which do not affect shareholder results.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced fund in which, apart from asset management fees, shareholders have no interest.
Accordingly, the Groups IFRS profit and equity are insensitive to the direct effects of market risk attaching to SAIFs assets and liabilities.
174 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D1: Group overview continued Shareholder-backed business The factors that may significantly affect the IFRS results of UK shareholder-backed business are the mortality experience and assumptions and credit risk attaching to the annuity business of Prudential Retirement Income Limited and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL The assets covering PRILs liabilities are principally debt securities and other investments that are held to match the expected duration and payment characteristics of the policyholder liabilities.
These liabilities are valued for IFRS reporting purposes by applying discount rates that reflect the market rates of return attaching to the covering assets.
Except mainly to the extent of any minor asset liability duration mismatch and exposure to credit risk, the sensitivity of the Groups results to market risk for movements in the carrying value of PRILs liabilities and covering assets is broadly neutral on a net basis.
The main market risk sensitivity for PRIL arises from interest rate risk on the debt securities which substantially represent IFRS equity.
This equity comprises the net assets held within the long-term fund of the company that cover regulatory basis liabilities that are not recognised for IFRS reporting purposes, for example contingency reserves, and shareholder capital held outside the long-term fund.
The principal items affecting the IFRS results for PRIL are mortality experience and assumptions and credit risk.
PAC non-profit sub-fund The PAC non-profit sub-fund principally comprises annuity business previously written by Scottish Amicable Life, credit life, unit-linked and other non-participating business.
The financial assets covering the liabilities for those types of business are subject to market risk.
However, for the annuity business the same considerations as described above for PRIL apply, whilst the liabilities of the unit-linked business change in line with the matching linked assets.
Other liabilities of the PAC non-profit sub-fund are broadly insensitive to market risk.
Other shareholder backed unit-linked business Due to the matching of policyholder liabilities to attaching asset value movements the UK unit-linked business is not directly affected by market or credit risk.
The principal factor affecting the IFRS results is investment performance through asset management fees.
Jackson The IFRS basis results of Jackson are highly sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities for fixed annuity, term, institutional and other variable annuity business not segregated in the separate accounts.
Invested assets covering liabilities for these types of business and related capital comprise principally debt securities classified as available-for-sale.
Value movements for these securities are reflected as movements in shareholders equity.
Other invested assets and derivatives are carried at fair value with the value movements reflected in the income statement.
By contrast, the IFRS insurance liabilities for these types of business of Jackson, by the application of grandfathers GAAP under IFRS 4, are measured on US GAAP bases which with the exception of certain items covered by the equity hedging programme, are generally insensitive to temporary changes in market conditions or the short-term returns on the attaching asset portfolios.
These differences in carrying value give rise to potentially significant volatility in the IFRS income statement and shareholders equity.
As for other shareholder-backed business the profit or loss for Jackson is presented in the Groups supplementary basis of reporting as described in note B1, by distinguishing the result for the year between an operating result based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In this way the most significant direct effect of market changes that have taken place to the Jackson result are separately identified.
Excluding these short-term effects, the factors that most significantly affect the Jackson IFRS operating result based on long-term investment returns are: Variable annuity business net effect of market risk arising from incidence of guarantee features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging performance.
Fixed annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders: and Fixed index annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders and incidence of equity index participation features.
175 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued Asian operations For Asian with-profits business the same features apply as described above for UK with-profits business.
Similarly, as for other parts of the Group, for unit-linked business the main factor affecting IFRS basis results is investment performance through asset management fees.
The sensitivity of the IFRS basis results of the Groups Asian operations to market risk is primarily restricted to the nonparticipating business.
This sensitivity is primarily reflected through the volatility of asset returns coupled with the fact that the accounting carrying value of liabilities to policyholders are only partially sensitive to changed market conditions.
As for UK shareholder-backed operations and Jackson, the IFRS profit is distinguished in the Groups supplementary analysis so as to distinguish operating profits based on longer-term investment return and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In addition to these features the overriding factor that affects IFRS basis results for Asian non-participating business is the return on the assets covering the Taiwan whole of life policies.
This factor directly affects the actual return in any given reporting period.
In addition though, the measurement of the liabilities to policyholders and the carrying value of deferred acquisition costs for this business is dependant upon an assessment of longer-term interest rates.
This key feature is described in more detail in notes D4 d and h iii.
Insurance and lapse risk The features described above cover the main sensitivities of IFRS profit and loss and equity for market, insurance and credit risk.
Lapse and longevity risk may also be a key determination of IFRS basis results with variable impacts.
In the UK, adverse persistency experience can effect the level of profitability from with-profits and unit-linked business.
For with-profits business in any given year, the amount represented by the shareholders share of cost of bonus may be only marginally affected.
However, altered persistency trends may affect the embedded value of the business in force reflecting an altered value of future expected shareholder transfers.
By contrast, Group IFRS operating profit is particularly sensitive to longevity shocks that result in changes of assumption for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
Jackson is sensitive to lapse risk.
However, Jackson has swaption derivatives in place to ameliorate the effect of a sharp rise in interest rates, which would be the most likely cause of a sudden change in policyholder behaviour.
iii Impact of diversification on risk exposure The Group enjoys significant diversification benefits.
This arises because not all risk scenarios will happen at the same time and across all geographic regions.
The Group tests the sensitivities of results to different correlation factors such as: Correlation across geographic regions Financial risk factors Non-financial risk factors.
Correlation across risk factors Longevity risk Expenses Persistency Other risks.
The effect of Group diversification is to significantly reduce the aggregate standalone volatility risk to IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The effect is almost wholly explained by the correlations across risk types, in particular longevity risk.
f Duration of liabilities Under the terms of the Groups contracts, as for life assurance contracts generally, the contractual maturity date is the earlier of the end of the contract term, death, other insurable events or surrender.
The Group has therefore chosen to provide details of liability duration that reflect the actuarially determined best estimate of the likely incidence of these factors on contract duration.
Details are shown in sections D2 j, D3 j and D4 i.
In the years 2003 to 2007, claims paid on the Groups life assurance contracts including those classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 ranged from 11.8 billion to 17.1 billion.
Indicatively it is to be expected that of the Groups policyholder liabilities excluding unallocated surplus at 31 December 2007 of 176 billion, the amounts likely to be paid in 2008 will be of a similar magnitude.
176 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D2: UK insurance operations a Summary balance sheet In order to explain the different types of UK business and fund structure, the balance sheet of the UK insurance operations may be analysed by the assets and liabilities of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, the PAC with-profits sub-fund, PRIL, unit-linked and other business.
The assets and liabilities of these funds and subsidiaries are shown in the table below.
PAC with-profits sub-fund note i Other funds and subsidiaries UK insurance Scottish Amicable Excluding Prudential Prudential operations Insurance Prudential Annuities Retirement 2007 2006 Fund Annuities Limited Total Income Unit-linked Other note ii Limited note iii note iv Limited business business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 55 102 157 157 167 55 102 157 157 167 Intangible assets attributable to PAC with-profits fund: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 192 192 192 830 Deferred acquisition costs 4 15 15 19 31 4 207 207 211 861 Total 4 207 207 55 102 157 368 1,028 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 161 2,086 289 2,375 512 660 725 1,897 4,433 4,733 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 1,230 10,197 485 10,682 724 1,030 1,754 13,666 14,429 Financial investments: note v Loans 184 599 163 762 43 256 299 1,245 1,128 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 6,946 40,756 352 41,108 107 12,659 9 12,775 60,829 60,246 note vi Debt securities 4,595 20,383 13,075 33,458 13,173 5,751 203 19,127 57,180 53,461 note vii Other investments 244 2,531 127 2,658 90 115 284 489 3,391 2,461 Deposits 466 4,021 313 4,334 828 1,418 182 2,428 7,228 6,812 Total investments 13,665 78,487 14,515 93,002 14,965 20,973 934 36,872 143,539 138,537 Held for sale assets 30 30 463 Cash and cash equivalents 127 642 56 698 49 836 159 1,044 1,869 1,979 Total assets 13,987 81,422 14,860 96,282 15,526 22,524 1,920 39,970 150,239 146,740 177 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued PAC with-profits sub-fund note i Other funds and subsidiaries UK insurance Scottish Amicable Excluding Prudential Prudential operations Insurance Prudential Annuities Retirement 2007 2006 Fund Annuities Limited Total Income Unit-linked Other note ii Limited note iii note iv Limited business business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m m Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,125 194 45 1,364 1,364 1,263 Minority interests 22 20 20 42 79 Total equity 22 20 20 1,125 194 45 1,364 1,406 1,342 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Insurance contract liabilities 12,927 34,988 12,564 47,552 13,402 8,766 151 22,319 82,798 80,323 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary participation features 693 28,773 28,773 29,466 28,665 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation features 14 14 12,059 12,059 12,073 11,453 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic provisions for UK regulated with-profits funds 12,486 1,719 14,205 14,205 13,511 Total 13,620 76,261 14,283 90,544 13,402 20,825 151 34,378 138,542 133,952 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 12 12 12 11 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 112 875 875 987 1,776 Other non-insurance liabilities 233 4,266 577 4,843 999 1,493 1,724 4,216 9,292 9,659 Total liabilities 13,965 81,402 14,860 96,262 14,401 22,330 1,875 38,606 148,833 145,398 Total equity and liabilities 13,987 81,422 14,860 96,282 15,526 22,524 1,920 39,970 150,239 146,740 Notes i For the purposes of this table and subsequent explanation, references to the WPSF also include, for convenience, the amounts attaching to the Defined Charges Participating Sub-fund.
ii SAIF is a separate sub-fund within the PAC long-term business fund.
iii Wholly-owned subsidiary of the PAC WPSF that writes annuity business.
iv Excluding policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
v The loans of the Groups UK insurance operations of 1,245 million comprise mortgage loans of 449 million, policy loans of 35 million and other loans of 761 million.
The mortgage loans are collateralised by properties.
Other loans are all commercial loans and comprise mainly syndicated loans held by the PAC with-profits fund.
vi Included in debt securities above are 3,511 million 2006: 3,341 million of securities which are not quoted on active markets and are valued using valuation techniques of which 3,002 million 2006: 2,945 million related to assets held by with-profits operations and 509 million 2006: 396 million related to assets held by shareholder-backed operations.
178 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D2: UK insurance operations continued Notes continued vii Other investments comprise: 2007 m Derivative assets note G3 571 Partnerships in investment pools and other 2,820 3,391 Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise mainly investments held by the PAC with-profits fund.
These investments are primarily venture fund investments and investment in property funds and limited partnerships.
For securities where S&P ratings are not available those produced by Moodys and then Fitch have been used as an alternative.
Where no external ratings are available internal ratings produced by the Groups asset management operations, which are prepared on the Companys assessment of a comparable basis to external ratings, are used where possible.
Of the total debt securities held at 31 December 2007 which are not externally rated, 2,972 million were internally rated AAA to A-, 2,844 million were internally rated BBB to Band 593 million were unrated.
The majority of unrated debt security investments were held in SAIF and the PAC with-profits fund and relate to convertible debt and other investments which are not covered by ratings analysts nor have an internal rating attributed to them.
As detailed in note D2 i below the primary sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity relates to non-linked shareholder-backed business which covers other funds and subsidiaries in the table above.
179 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued c Products and guarantees Prudentials long-term products in the UK consist of life insurance, pension products and pension annuities.
These products are written primarily in: One of three separate sub-funds of the PAC long-term fund, namely the with-profits sub-fund, the SAIF, and the non-profit sub-fund: Prudential Annuities Limited, which is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund: Prudential Retirement Income Limited, a shareholder-owned subsidiary: or Other shareholder-backed subsidiaries writing mainly non-profit unit-linked business.
i With-profits products and PAC with-profits sub-fund Within the balance sheet of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2007, there are policyholder liabilities of 76.3 billion 2006: 74.1 billion and unallocated surplus of 14.2 billion 2006: 13.5 billion that relate to the WPSF.
The WPSF mainly contains with-profits business but it also contains some non-profit business unit-linked, term assurances and annuities.
The WPSFs profits are apportioned 90 per cent to its policyholders and 10 per cent to shareholders as surplus for distribution is determined via the annual actuarial valuation.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year, and once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
When determining policy payouts, including final bonuses, Prudential considers policyholders reasonable expectations, the need to smooth claim values and payments from year to year and competitive considerations, together with asset shares for specimen policies.
Asset shares broadly reflect the value of premiums paid plus the investment return on the assets notionally attributed to the policy, less the other items to be charged such as expenses and the cost of the life insurance cover.
For many years, UK with-profits product providers, such as Prudential, have been required by law and regulation to consider the reasonable expectations of policyholders in setting bonus levels.
This concept is established by statute but is not defined.
However, it is defined within the regulatory framework, which also more recently contains an explicit requirement to treat customers fairly.
The WPSF held a provision of 45 million at 31 December 2007 2006: 47 million to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity products.
SAIFs exposure to guaranteed annuities is described below.
Beyond the generic guarantees described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees such as minimum investment returns, surrender values or annuities at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
ii Annuity business Prudentials conventional annuities include level, fixed increase and retail price index RPI annuities.
They are mainly written within the subsidiaries PAL, PRIL, Prudential Pensions Limited and the PAC with-profits sub-fund, but there are some annuity liabilities in the non-profit sub-fund and SAIF.
Prudentials fixed-increase annuities incorporate automatic increases in annuity payments by fixed amounts over the policyholders life.
The RPI annuities that Prudential offers provide for a regular annuity payment to which an additional amount is added periodically based on the increase in the UK RPI.
Prudentials with-profits annuities, which are written in the WPSF, combine the income features of annuity products with the investment smoothing features of with-profits products and enable policyholders to obtain exposure to investment return on the WPSFs equity shares, property and other investment categories over time.
Policyholders select an anticipated bonus from the specific range Prudential offers for the particular product.
The amount of the annuity payment each year depends upon the relationship between the anticipated bonus rate selected by the policyholder when the product is purchased and the bonus rates Prudential subsequently declares each year during the term of the product.
If the total bonus rates fall below the anticipated rate, then the annuity income falls.
On 31 December 2007, Prudential completed the transfer of 62,000 with-profits annuity policies from Equitable Life, with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
The policies transferred form part of the Defined Charge Participating Sub-Fund of Prudentials with-profit fund.
Profits to shareholders will emerge on a charges less expenses basis and policyholders will be entitled to 100 per cent of the investment earnings.
At 31 December 2007, 29.5 billion 2006: 29.0 billion of investments relate to annuity business of PAL and PRIL.
These investments are predominantly in debt securities including retail price index-linked bonds to match retail price index-linked annuities, loans and deposits and are duration matched with the estimated duration of the liabilities they support.
180 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D2: UK insurance operations continued iii SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund formed following the acquisition of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in 1997.
No new business may be written in SAIF, although regular premiums are still being paid on policies in force at the time of the acquisition and incremental premiums are permitted on these policies.
The fund is solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of this fund although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
The process for determining policyholder bonuses of SAIF with-profits policies, which constitute the vast majority of obligations of the funds, is similar to that for the with-profits policies of the WPSF.
However, in addition, the surplus assets in SAIF are allocated to policies in an orderly and equitable distribution over time as enhancements to policyholder benefits i. e. in excess of those based on asset share.
Provision is made for the risks attaching to some SAIF unitised with-profits policies that have MVR-free dates and for those SAIF products which have a guaranteed minimum benefit on death or maturity of premiums accumulated at four per cent per annum.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and a provision of 563 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2007 2006: 561 million to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF this provision has no impact on the financial position of the Groups shareholders equity.
iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business Prudential UK insurance operations also have an extensive book of unit-linked policies of varying types and provide a range of other non-profit business such as credit life and protection contracts.
These contracts do not contain significant financial guarantees.
There are no guaranteed maturity values or guaranteed annuity options on unit-linked policies except for minor amounts for certain policies linked to cash units within SAIF.
d Exposure to market risk i Non-linked life and pension business For with-profits business, the absence of guaranteed surrender values and the flexibility given by the operation of the bonus system means that the majority of the investments backing the with-profits business are in equities and real estate with the balance in debt securities, deposits and loans.
The investments supporting the protection business are small in value and tend to be fixed maturities reflecting the guaranteed nature of the liabilities.
ii Pension annuity business Prudentials UK annuity business mainly employs fixed income investments including UK retail price index-linked assets because the liabilities consist of guaranteed payments for as long as each annuitant or surviving partner is alive.
Retail price index-linked assets are used to back pension annuities where the payments are linked to the RPI.
iii Unit-linked business Except through the second order effect on asset management fees, the unit-linked business of the UK insurance operations is not exposed to market risk.
The lack of exposure arises from the contract nature whereby policyholder benefits reflect asset value movements of the unit-linked funds.
e Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities i Overview The calculation of the contract liabilities involves the setting of assumptions for future experience.
This is done following detailed review of the relevant experience including, in particular, mortality, expenses, tax, economic assumptions and where applicable, persistency.
For with-profits business written in the WPSF or SAIF, a market consistent valuation is performed as described in section ii below.
Additional assumptions required are for persistency and the management actions under which the fund is managed.
Assumptions used for a market consistent valuation typically do not contain margins, whereas those used for the valuation of other classes of business do.
Mortality assumptions are set based on the results of the most recent experience analysis looking at the experience over recent years of the relevant business.
For non-profit business, a margin for adverse deviation is added.
Different assumptions are applied for different product groups.
For annuitant mortality, assumptions for current mortality rates are based on recent experience investigations and expected future improvements in mortality.
The expected future improvements are based on recent experience and projections of the business and industry experience generally.
181 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued Maintenance and, for some classes of business, termination expense assumptions are expressed as per policy amounts.
They are set based on the expenses incurred during the year, including an allowance for ongoing investment expenditure and allocated between entities and product groups in accordance with the operations internal cost allocation model.
For non-profit business a margin for adverse deviation is added to this amount.
Expense inflation assumptions are set consistent with the economic basis and based on the difference between yields on nominal gilts and index-linked gilts.
The actual renewal expenses charged to SAIF continued to be based on the tariff arrangement specified in the Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society Scheme up to 31 December 2007, when the tariff arrangement terminated.
This provided an additional margin in SAIF as the unit costs derived from actual expenses and used to derive the recommended assumptions were generally significantly greater than the tariff costs.
From 1 January 2008 the full expenses incurred are being charged to SAIF.
The assumptions for asset management expenses are based on the charges specified in agreements with the Groups asset management operations, plus a margin for adverse deviation for non-profit business.
Tax assumptions are set equal to current rates of taxation.
For non-profit business excluding unit-linked business, the valuation interest rates used to discount the liabilities are based on the yields as at the valuation date on the assets backing the technical provisions.
For fixed interest securities the gross redemption yield is used except for the PAL and PRIL annuity business where the internal rate of return of the assets backing the liabilities is used.
For property it is the rental yield, and for equities it is the greater of the dividend yield and the average of the dividend yield and the earnings yield.
An adjustment is made to the yield on non risk-free fixed interest securities and property to reflect credit risk.
To calculate the non-unit reserves for linked business, assumptions have been set for the gross unit growth rate and the rate of inflation of maintenance expenses, as well as for the valuation interest rate as described above.
ii WPSF and SAIF The policyholder liabilities reported for the WPSF are primarily for two broad types of business.
These are accumulating and conventional with-profits contracts.
The policyholder liabilities of the WPSF are accounted for under FRS 27.
The provisions have been determined on a basis consistent with the detailed methodology included in regulations contained in the FSAs rules for the determination of reserves on the FSAs realistic Peak 2 basis.
In aggregate, the regime has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
These contracts are a combination of insurance and investment contracts with discretionary participation features, as defined by IFRS 4.
The FSAs Peak 2 calculation under the realistic regime requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: The with-profits benefits reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future expected policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
Asset shares are calculated as the accumulation of all items of income and outgo that are relevant to each policy type.
Income comprises credits for premiums, investment returns including unrealised gains, and miscellaneous profits.
Outgo comprises charges for tax including an allowance for tax on unrealised gains, guarantees and smoothing, mortality and morbidity, shareholders profit transfers, miscellaneous losses, and expenses and commission net of any tax relief.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount must be determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group and aim to be market consistent.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR, and investment policy employed and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse investment scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that is retained in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with the Groups management policy for with-profits funds and the Groups disclosures in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
182 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D2: UK insurance operations continued The contract liabilities for with-profits business also require assumptions for persistency.
These are set based on the results of recent experience analysis.
iii Annuity business The contract liabilities for PAL and PRIL are based on the FSA regulatory solvency basis.
The valuation is then modified for IFRS reporting purposes to remove some of the margins for prudence within the assumptions, and contingency reserves, which are required under the solvency basis applied for regulatory purposes, but not for financial accounting.
The contract liabilities are the discounted value of future claim payments, adjusted for investment expenses and future administration costs.
The interest rates used for discounting claim payments are derived from the yields on the assets held with an allowance for default risk.
The mortality assumptions are set in light of recent population and internal experience.
The assumptions used are percentages of standard actuarial mortality tables with an allowance for future mortality improvements.
Where annuities have been sold on an enhanced basis to impaired lives an additional age adjustment is made.
The percentages of the standard table used are selected according to the source of business.
The range of percentages used is set out in the following tables: PAL PRIL 2007 Males Females Males Females In payment 106% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 99% 114% PNMA00 85% 103% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table table with a minimum improvement table annual improvement with a minimum annual annual improvement with a minimum annual of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering age 120 to zero at age 120 age 120 to zero at age 120 In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2006 Males Females Males Females In payment 106% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 99% 114% PNMA00 85% 103% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table table with a minimum improvement table annual improvement with a minimum annual annual improvement with a minimum annual of 1.25% improvement of 0.75% of 1.25% improvement of 0.75% In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2005 Males Females Males Females In payment 93% 100% PMA92 84% 105% PFA92 88% 100% PMA92 84% 102% PFA92 C 2004 with medium C 2004 with 75% C 2004 with medium C 2004 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table table with a minimum improvement table annual improvement with a minimum annual annual improvement with a minimum annual of 1.25% improvement of 0.75% of 1.25% improvement of 0.75% In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years 183 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business The majority of other long-term business written in the UK insurance operations is unit-linked business or other business with similar features.
For these contracts the attaching liability reflects the unit value obligation and provision for expenses and mortality risk.
The latter component is determined by applying mortality assumptions on a basis that is appropriate for the policyholder profile.
For unit-linked business, the assets covering unit liabilities are exposed to market risk, but the residual risk when considering the unit-linked liabilities and assets together is limited to the effect on fund-based charges.
For those contracts where the level of insurance risk is insignificant the assets and liabilities arising under the contracts are distinguished between those that relate to the financial instrument liability and acquisition costs and deferred income that relate to the component of the contract that relates to investment management.
Acquisition costs and deferred income are recognised consistent with the level of service provision in line with the requirements of IAS 18. f Reinsurance The Groups UK insurance business cedes only minor amounts of business outside the Group.
During 2007, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 59 million 2006: 58 million and reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were 335 million 2006: 510 million in aggregate.
The gains and losses recognised in profit and loss for these contracts were immaterial.
g Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2007 For UK insurance operations, the 2007 results have been determined after making changes to mortality assumptions for the annuity business and other assumptions for the WPSF and releasing excess margins in the aggregate liabilities that had previously been set aside as an indirect extra allowance for longevity related risks.
2007 m With-profits Shareholdersub-fund backed business note a Effect of strengthening of mortality assumptions 435 276 note b Modelling of management actions 167 note c Strengthening of other assumptions 62 664 276 Release of other margins: note d Projected benefit related 13 104 note e Investment related: Default margins 199 48 Asset management fees 60 259 48 notes c, f Expenses related 68 notes c, g Other 90 272 310 Net charge to unallocated surplus 392 Net credit to shareholder result 34 Notes a The mortality assumptions have been strengthened by increasing the minimum level of future improvement rate.
b Given the continuing strong financial position of the fund, the assumed management actions relating to with-profits business have been revised in order to better reflect the benefits to policyholders that can be supported by the fund.
c The effects of the strengthening of other assumptions for the WPSF of 62 million is net of a release of PALs expense reserve of 11 million and other additional margins in PALs liabilities of 40 million.
d The release of projected benefit related margins primarily relates to modelling improvements that have been made during 2007. e The release of investment-related margins includes 48 million in respect of default margins for shareholder-backed business and 199 million for PAL.
The resulting assumptions for expected defaults, after allowing for the release of margins, remain appropriate given economic conditions at 31 December 2007.
In addition, for PAL, there is a release of 60 million in respect of asset management fees.
f A release of expense reserves has been made following recent expense reductions.
g This amount reflects the release of other additional margins in the liabilities that are no longer appropriate in light of the explicit strengthening of the mortality assumptions.
184 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D2: UK insurance operations continued 2006 For with-profits business, there was no significant change in assumptions in 2006.
There was no change in mortality assumptions for PAL in 2006 which had a material effect on the measurement of the insurance liabilities.
Liabilities for PAL were increased by 47 million for the effect of change of assumptions for renewal expenses.
As PAL is owned by the WPSF, this change had no effect on shareholder profit.
In 2006, the FSA made regulatory changes for UK regulated shareholder-backed non-participating business.
These changes were confirmed in the December 2006 policy statement PS06 14.
The changes to the FSA rules allow insurance liabilities for this business to incorporate more realism.
In particular this is achieved by: setting technical provisions for expenses not directly attributable to one particular contract at a homogenous risk group level and not, as previously, at an individual contract level for all non-profit business: and recognising the economic effect of making a prudent lapse rate assumption.
Previously, no lapses were assumed.
Under IFRS 4, the effect of this change is accounted for as a change in estimate and there was a consequent increase in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of 46 million.
In addition to the 46 million credit described above, a charge of 4 million was recognised in 2006 for the effect of change of assumption for renewal and termination expenses mainly in respect of PAC.
h Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from insurance contracts At 31 December 2007, the EEV basis value of in-force business of UK insurance operations, after taking account of the cost of encumbered capital and the cost of the time value of financial options and guarantees, was 5,334 million 2006: 4,835 million.
This value has been determined after applying the principles of valuation described in note D1 and the following key assumptions: 2007 % 2006 % Risk discount rate for in-force business at the start of the year 7.85 8.0 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return: UK equities 8.55 8.6 Overseas equities 8.1 to 10.2 8.6 to 9.3 Property 6.8 7.1 Gilts 4.55 4.6 note i Corporate bonds with-profits funds 6.0 5.3 other business 6.25 5.3 Expected long-term rate of inflation 3.2 3.1 Post-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for the with-profits sub-fund pensions business where no tax applies 7.85 7.5 Life business 6.9 6.6 note ii Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for annuity business: Fixed annuities 5.4 to 5.6 5.0 to 5.1 Linked annuities 5.0 to 5.2 4.8 to 5.0 Notes i The assumed long-term rate for corporate bonds for 2007 for with-profits business reflects the purchase of credit default swaps.
ii The pre-tax rate of return for annuity business is based on the gross redemption yield on the backing assets net of a best estimate allowance for future defaults.
185 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued The sensitivity of the value of in-force business and net worth to changes in key assumptions is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Economic assumptions: Discount rates 1% increase 534 480 Interest rates including consequential changes for assumed investment returns for all asset classes, market values of debt securities, and all risk discount rates : 1% increase 95 66 1% decrease 113 69 Equity property yields 1% rise 405 382 Equity property market values 10% fall 519 502 Non-economic assumptions: Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 36 33 Lapse rates 10% decrease 87 75 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease in base rates i. e. increased longevity 103 87 2006 comparatives for the sensitivity to interest rate changes have been adjusted from previously published data for the effect of revisions to the calculation of the with-profits fund.
i Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks The risks to which the IFRS basis results of the UK insurance operations are sensitive are asset liability matching, mortality experience and payment assumptions for shareholder-backed annuity business.
Further details are described below.
i With-profits business SAIF Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on the assets of the fund.
With-profits sub-fund business For with-profits business including non-participating business of PAL which is owned by the WPSF adjustments to liabilities and any related tax effects are recognised in the income statement.
However, except for any impact on the annual declaration of bonuses, shareholders profit for with-profits business is unaffected.
This is because IFRS basis profits for with-profits business, which are determined on the same basis as on preceding UK GAAP, solely reflect one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for the year.
The main factors that influence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the fund, the effect of inflation, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
Mortality and other insurance risk are relatively minor factors.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities of the fund.
As unallocated surplus of the WPSF is recorded as a liability, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profits or equity.
The level of unallocated surplus is particularly sensitive to the level of investment returns on the portion of the life fund assets that represents the surplus.
The effects for 2007 and 2006 are demonstrated in note D5.
ii Shareholder-backed annuity business Profits from shareholder-backed annuity business are most sensitive to: the extent to which the duration of the assets held closely matches the expected duration of the liabilities under the contracts.
Assuming close matching, the impact of short-term asset value movements as a result of interest rate movements will broadly offset changes in the value of liabilities caused by movements in valuation rates of interest: actual versus expected default rates on assets held: the difference between long-term rates of return on corporate bonds and risk-free rates: the variance between actual and expected mortality experience: the extent to which expected future mortality experience gives rise to changes in the measurement of liabilities: and changes in renewal expense levels.
186 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D2: UK insurance operations continued A decrease in assumed mortality rates of one per cent would decrease gross profits by approximately 35 million 2006: 34 million.
A decrease in credit default assumptions of five basis points would increase gross profits by 72 million 2006: 64 million.
A decrease in renewal expenses excluding asset management expenses of five per cent would increase gross profits by 13 million 2006: 14 million.
The effect on profits would be approximately symmetrical for changes in assumptions that are directionally opposite to those explained above.
iii Unit-linked and other business Unit-linked and other business represents a comparatively small proportion of the in-force business of the UK insurance operations.
Profits from unit-linked and similar contracts primarily arise from the excess of charges to policyholders, for management of assets under the Companys stewardship, over expenses incurred.
The former is most sensitive to the net accretion of funds under management as a function of new business and lapse and mortality experience.
The accounting impact of the latter is dependent upon the amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins for insurance contracts and amortisation in line with service provision for the investment management component of investment contracts.
By virtue of the design features of most of the contracts which provide low levels of mortality cover, the profits are relatively insensitive to changes in mortality experience.
iv Shareholder exposure to interest rate risk and other market risk By virtue of the fund structure, product features and basis of accounting described in note D2 c and e, the policyholder liabilities of the UK insurance operations are, except for pension annuity business, not generally exposed to interest rate risk.
For pension annuity business, liabilities are exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
However, the net exposure to the PAC WPSF for PAL and shareholders for liabilities of PRIL and the non-profit sub-fund is very substantially ameliorated by virtue of the close matching of assets with appropriate duration.
The close matching by the Group of assets of appropriate duration to annuity liabilities is based on maintaining economic and regulatory capital.
The measurement of liabilities under capital reporting requirements and IFRS is not the same as detailed in note D2 e iii, with contingency reserves and some other margins for prudence within the assumptions required under the FSA regulatory solvency basis not included for IFRS reporting purposes.
As a result IFRS equity is higher than regulatory capital and therefore more sensitive to interest rate risk.
The estimated sensitivity of the UK non-linked shareholder backed business principally pension annuities business to a movement in interest rates of one per cent as at 31 December 2007 and 2006 is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Fall of 1% Rise of 1% Fall of 1% Rise of 1% Carrying value of debt securities and derivatives 1,930 1,634 1,802 1,529 Policyholder liabilities 1,777 1,467 1,671 1,374 Related deferred tax effects 43 47 40 47 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and equity 110 120 91 108 In addition the shareholder backed portfolio of UK non-linked insurance operations covering liabilities and shareholders equity includes equity securities and investment property.
Excluding any second order effects on the measurement of the liabilities for future cash flow to the policyholder, a 10 per cent fall in their value would have given rise to a 86 million and 42 million reduction in pre-tax profit for 2007 and 2006.
After related deferred tax there would have been a 62 million and 29 million reduction in shareholders equity at 31 December 2007 and 2006 respectively.
The market risk sensitivities shown above reflect the impact of temporary market movements and, therefore, the primary effect of such movements would, in the Companys supplementary analysis of profits be included within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
j Duration of liabilities With the exception of most unitised with-profits bonds and other whole of life contracts the majority of the contracts of the UK insurance operations have a contract term.
However, in effect, the maturity term of contracts reflects the earlier of death, maturity, or lapsation.
In addition, with-profit contract liabilities as noted in note D2 e above include projected future bonuses based on current investment values.
The actual amounts payable will vary with future investment performance of SAIF and the WPSF.
187 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued The tables below show the carrying value of the policyholder liabilities.
Separately, the Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The tables below also show the maturity profile of the cash flows used for 2007 and 2006 for that purpose for insurance contracts, as defined by IFRS, i. e. those containing significant insurance risk, and investment contracts, which do not.
2007 m Annuity business With-profits business Insurance contracts Other Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contracts contracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total Policyholder liabilities 47,915 29,480 77,395 12,564 13,402 25,966 8,917 12,059 20,976 2007 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 47 25 38 32 31 32 32 31 31 5 to 10 years 27 23 26 24 23 24 23 22 23 10 to 15 years 13 19 16 18 17 17 18 20 19 15 to 20 years 71510121212121312 20 to 25 years 4 116787867 Over 25 years 274798788 2006 m Annuity business With-profits business Insurance contracts Other Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contracts contracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total Policyholder liabilities 46,223 28,677 74,900 13,379 12,327 25,706 8,394 11,441 19,835 2006 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 47 23 36 32 30 31 32 37 34 5 to 10 years 28 22 26 24 23 24 24 23 23 10 to 15 years 13 17 15 18 17 18 18 14 16 15 to 20 years 6 15 10 12 12 12 12 13 13 20 to 25 years 3 13 7787757 Over 25 years 3 10 6 7 108787 Notes i The cash flow projections of expected benefit payments used in the maturity profile table above are from value of in-force business and exclude the value of future new business, including vesting of internal pension contracts.
ii Benefit payments do not reflect the pattern of bonuses and shareholder transfers in respect of the with-profits business.
iii Investment contracts under Other comprise certain unit-linked and similar contracts accounted for under IAS 39 and IAS 18. iv For business with no maturity term included within the contracts, for example with-profits investment bonds such as Prudence Bond, an assumption is made as to likely duration based on prior experience.
v The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flow for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
188 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations a Summary results and balance sheet i Results and movements on shareholders equity 2007 m 2006 m Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 444 398 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 18 53 Profit before shareholder tax 426 451 Tax 126 150 Profit for the year 300 301 2007 m 2006 m Profit for the year 300 301 Items recognised directly in equity: Exchange movements 42 377 Unrealised valuation movements on securities classified as available-for-sale: Unrealised holding losses arising during the year 231 208 Less losses included in the income statement 13 7 244 201 Related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs 88 75 Related tax 54 50 Total items of income and expense recognised directly in equity 144 453 Total income and expense for the year 156 152 Transfers to Central companies 122 91 Net increase decrease in equity 34 243 Shareholders equity at beginning of year 2,656 2,899 Shareholders equity at end of year 2,690 2,656 In addition, for Jackson, included within the movements in shareholders equity is a net reduction in value of Jacksons debt securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39 of 244 million.
This reduction reflects the effects of widened credit spreads in the US bond market partially offset by the effect of reduced US interest rates and a steepening yield curve.
With the exception of debt securities for US insurance operations classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39, unrealised value movements on the Groups investments are booked within the income statement.
For with-profits operations such value movements are reflected in changes to asset share liabilities to policyholders and the liability for unallocated surplus.
For shareholder-backed operations the unrealised value movements form part of the total return for the year booked in the profit before tax attributable to shareholders, which is then, in the Companys supplementary IFRS information, analysed between operating profit based on longer-term investment return and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
However, for debt securities classified as available-for-sale, unless impaired, fair value movements are recorded as a movement in shareholder reserves direct to equity.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement as shown in note B1.
In general, the debt securities of the Groups US insurance operations are purchased with the intention and the ability to hold them for the longer term.
In 2007, there was a movement in the balance sheet value for these debt securities classified as available-for-sale from a net unrealised gain of 110 million to a net unrealised loss of 136 million.
During 2007, US interest rates fell and the yield curve steepened.
Offsetting this movement were market price effects resulting from increasing credit spreads and global credit concerns.
As a result of these factors, the gross unrealised gain in the balance sheet decreased from 366 million at 31 December 2006 to 303 million at 31 December 2007 while the gross unrealised loss increased from 256 million at 31 December 2006 to 439 million at 31 December 2007.
Details of the securities in an unrealised position are shown in D3 b below.
189 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued These features are included in the table shown below of the movements in the values of available-for-sale securities: 2007 2006 Change in unrealised appreciation m m m Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 10,730 11,258 Unrealised loss 439 183 256 Fair value as included in balance sheet 10,291 11,002 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 8,041 8,208 Unrealised gain 303 63 366 Fair value as included in balance sheet 8,344 8,574 Total Book value 18,771 19,466 Net unrealised loss gain 136 246 110 Fair value as included in balance sheet 18,635 19,576 m Reflected as part of movement in shareholders equity Movement in unrealised appreciation 244 Exchange movements 2 246 Debt securities for US operations as included in the balance sheet of 19,002 million comprise 18,635 million in respect of securities classified as available-for-sale and 367 million for securities of consolidated investment funds classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Included within the movement in unrealised losses for the debt securities of Jackson of 244 million as shown above was a value reduction of 55 million relating to the sub-prime and Alt-A securities as referred to in section G2.
190 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued ii Balance sheet Variable annuity Fixed separate account annuity, GIC US insurance operations assets and and other 2007 2006 liabilities business note i note i Total Total m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 1,928 1,928 1,712 Total 1,928 1,928 1,712 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 1,651 1,651 1,588 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 8 8 20 Financial investments: note ii Loans 3,258 3,258 3,254 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 15,027 480 15,507 11,710 D3b Debt securities 19,002 19,002 20,146 note iii Other investments 762 762 542 Deposits 258 258 457 Total investments 15,027 23,768 38,795 36,129 Cash and cash equivalents 169 169 99 Total assets 15,027 27,516 42,543 39,528 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 2,690 2,690 2,656 Minority interests 1 1 1 Total equity 2,691 2,691 2,657 Liabilities note iv Policyholder liabilities: Insurance contract liabilities 15,027 17,899 32,926 30,184 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation features GIC and annuity certain 1,922 1,922 1,562 Total 15,027 19,821 34,848 31,746 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 125 125 127 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 591 591 743 Other non-insurance liabilities 4,288 4,288 4,255 Total liabilities 15,027 24,825 39,852 36,871 Total equity and liabilities 15,027 27,516 42,543 39,528 Notes i Assets and liabilities attaching to variable annuity business that are not held in the separate account are shown within other business.
ii Loans The loans of Jackson of 3,258 million comprise mortgage loans of 2,841 million and policy loans of 417 million.
All of the mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans which are collateralised by properties.
The property types are mainly industrial, multi-family residential, suburban office, retail and hotel.
Jacksons mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and is therefore not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
The policy loans are fully secured by individual life insurance policies or annuity policies.
These loans are accounted for at amortised cost, less any impairment.
191 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued Notes continued iii Other investments comprise: 2007 m Derivative assets note G3 390 Partnerships in investment pools and other 372 762 Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise primarily investments in limited partnerships.
These include interest in the PPM America Private Equity Fund and diversified investments in 164 other partnerships by independent money managers that generally invest in various equities and fixed income loans and securities.
iv Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and reserves at 31 December 2007 The policyholder liabilities, net of reinsurers share of 436 million 2006: 427 million, reflect balances in respect of the following: 2007 2006 m m Policy reserves and liabilities on non-linked business: Reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims payable 916 935 Deposits on investment contracts as defined under US GAAP 16,784 17,690 Guaranteed investment contracts 1,685 1,327 Unit-linked variable annuity business 15,027 11,367 34,412 31,319 In addition to the policyholder liabilities above, Jackson has entered into a programme of funding arrangements under contracts which, in substance, are almost identical to GICs.
The liabilities under these funding arrangements totalled 2,607 million 2006: 2,552 million and are included in other non-insurance liabilities in the balance sheet above.
b Information on credit risks of debt securities 2007 m 2006 m Summary Carrying Carrying value value Corporate security and commercial loans: Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A traded 10,345 11,569 Non-SEC Rule 144A traded 2,613 2,458 12,958 14,027 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,939 2,827 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 1,532 1,155 Other debt securities 1,573 2,137 Total debt securities 19,002 20,146 Credit quality For statutory reporting in the US, debt securities are classified into six quality categories specified by the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
The categories range from Class 1 the highest to Class 6 the lowest.
Performing securities are designated as Classes 1 to 5.
Securities in or near default are designated Class 6.
Securities designated as Class 3, 4, 5 and 6 are non-investment grade securities.
Generally, securities rated AAA to A by nationally recognised statistical ratings organisations are reflected in Class 1, BBB in Class 2, BB in Class 3 and B and below in Classes 4 to 6.
If a designation is not currently available from the NAIC, Jacksons investment adviser, PPM America, provides the designation for the purposes of disclosure below.
The following table shows the quality of publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A traded debt securities held by the US operations as at 31 December 2007 and 2006 by NAIC classifications: 192 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued 2007 2006 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 4,338 42 4,631 40 2 5,194 50 5,850 51 3 542 5 817 7 4 231 2 249 2 5 40 1 22 0 10,345 100 11,569 100 The following table shows the quality of the non-SEC Rule 144A traded private placement portfolio by NAIC classifications: 2007 2006 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 1,011 39 861 35 2 1,351 52 1,345 54 3 206 8 212 9 4 45 1 40 2 5 2,613 100 2,458 100 The following table shows the quality of residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities: 2007 2006 Carrying Carrying value value m m unless unless otherwise otherwise stated stated Residential mortgage-backed securities included within debt securities Total residential mortgage-backed securities 2,939 2,827 Residential mortgage-backed securities rated AAA or equivalent by a nationally recognised statistical ratings organisation including Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch : Amount 2,542 1,750 Percentage of total 86.5% 61.9% Residential mortgage-backed securities rated NAIC 1: Amount 2,932 2,824 Percentage of total 99.8% 99.9% Commercial mortgage-backed securities included within debt securities Total commercial mortgage-backed securities 1,532 1,155 Commercial mortgage-backed securities rated AAA or equivalent by a nationally recognised statistical ratings organisation including Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch : Amount 1,351 1,090 Percentage of total 88.2% 94.4% Commercial mortgage-backed securities rated NAIC 1: Amount 1,462 1,076 Percentage of total 95.4% 93.2% Included within other debt securities of 1,573 million in the summary shown above are 944 million 2006: 1,133 million of asset backed securities held directly by Jackson, of which 817 million 2006: 791 million were NAIC designation 1 and 127 million 2006: 342 million NAIC designation 2.
In addition, other debt securities includes 316 million 2006: 405 million in respect of securities held by the Piedmont trust entity see note G1 and 313 million 2006: 485 million from the consolidation of investment funds managed by PPM America.
193 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued In addition to the ratings disclosed above, the following table summarises by rating the debt securities held by US insurance operations as at 31 December 2007 using Standard and Poors S&P, Moodys and Fitch ratings: 2007 m Carrying value S&P AAA 3,896 S&P AA to AA- 1,187 S&P A to A- 3,657 S&P BBB to BBB- 5,415 S&P Other 1,113 15,268 Moodys Aaa 549 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 118 Moodys A1 to A3 47 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 79 Moodys Other 78 871 Fitch 380 Other 2,483 Total debt securities 19,002 In the table above, S&P ratings have been used where available.
For securities where S&P ratings are not immediately available, those produced by Moodys and then Fitch have been used as an alternative.
The amounts within Other which are not rated by S&P, Moodys or Fitch have the following NAIC classifications: 2007 m NAIC 1 1,079 NAIC 2 1,311 NAIC 3-6 93 2,483 Included in debt securities are 2,863 million 2006: 2,859 million of securities which are not quoted on active markets and are valued using valuation techniques.
Debt securities above are shown net of cumulative impairment losses on retained securities of 246 million 2006: 266 million.
Included within the debt securities of Jackson at 31 December 2007 are exposures to sub-prime and Alt-A mortgages and CDO funds as follows: 2007 m Carrying value Sub-prime mortgages S&P rated AAA 237 Alt-A mortgages 77% AAA, 17% AA 660 897 CDO funds 260 1,157 Including Groups economic interest in Piedmont as described in note G1 and other consolidated CDO portfolios.
194 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued Jackson defines its exposure to sub-prime mortgages as investments in residential mortgage-backed securities in which the underlying borrowers have a US Fair Isaac Credit Organisation FICO credit score of 659 or lower.
Debt securities classified as available-for-sale in an unrealised loss position The unrealised losses in the US insurance operations balance sheet on unimpaired securities are 439 million 2006: 256 million.
This reflects assets with fair market value and book value of 10,291 million and 10,730 million respectively.
The following table shows some key attributes of the debt securities that are in an unrealised loss position at 31 December 2007 and 2006.
2007 m 2006 m Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value Fair value Unrealised loss Fair value Unrealised loss Between 90% and 100% 9,370 274 10,941 248 Between 80% and 90% 784 122 61 8 Below 80% 137 43 10,291 439 11,002 256 Included within the table above are amounts relating to sub-prime and Alt-A securities of: Fair value Unrealised loss Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value m m Between 90% and 100% 572 24 Between 80% and 90% 132 22 Below 80% 28 10 732 56 2007 m 2006 m NonNonAged analysis of unrealised Not investment Investment Total Not investment Investment Total losses for the periods indicated rated grade grade rated grade grade Less than 6 months 7 8 52 67 1 1 14 16 6 months to 1 year 10 21 105 136 3 1 10 14 1 year to 2 years 5 2 16 23 24 10 135 169 2 years to 3 years 24 10 140 174 5 9 14 3 years to 4 years 3 1 5 9 5 35 40 4 years to 5 years 3 24 27 5 years to 6 years 2 1 3 6 years to 7 years 1 2 3 53 44 342 439 40 13 203 256 At 31 December 2007, the gross unrealised losses in the balance sheet for the sub-prime and Alt-A securities in an unrealised loss position were 56 million.
Sub-prime and Alt-A securities with unrealised losses of 37 million in the balance sheet at 31 December 2007 have been in an unrealised loss position for less than one year with the remaining securities with unrealised losses of 19 million being in an unrealised loss position for more than one year.
195 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued 2007 m 2006 m Unrealised Unrealised By maturity of security loss loss Less than 1 year 1 1 1 to 5 years 54 29 5 to 10 years 164 113 More than 10 years 60 51 Mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities 160 62 Total 439 256 c Products and guarantees Jackson provides long-term savings and retirement products to retail and institutional customers throughout the US.
Jackson offers fixed annuities interest-sensitive, fixed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
i Fixed annuities Interest-sensitive annuities At 31 December 2007, interest-sensitive fixed annuities accounted for 25 per cent 2006: 31 per cent of policy and contract liabilities of Jackson.
Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are primarily deferred annuity products that are used for retirement planning and for providing income in retirement.
They permit tax-deferred accumulation of funds and flexible payout options.
The policyholder of an interest-sensitive fixed annuity pays Jackson a premium, which is credited to the policyholders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the policyholders account and in some cases administrative charges are deducted from the policyholders account.
Jackson makes benefit payments at a future date as specified in the policy based on the value of the policyholders account at that date.
The policy provides that at Jacksons discretion it may reset the interest rate, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The minimum guarantee varies from 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent 2006: 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent depending on the jurisdiction of issue and the date of issue, with 80 per cent 2006: 80 per cent of the fund at three per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 3.1 per cent 2006: 3.1 per cent.
Approximately 30 per cent 2006: 35 per cent of the interest-sensitive fixed annuities Jackson wrote in 2007 provide for a market value adjustment, that could be positive or negative, on surrenders in the surrender period of the policy.
This formulabased adjustment approximates the change in value that assets supporting the product would realise as interest rates move up or down.
The minimum guaranteed rate is not affected by this adjustment.
Fixed indexed annuities Fixed indexed annuities accounted for seven per cent 2006: seven per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2007.
Fixed indexed annuities vary in structure, but generally are deferred annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return based on participation rates and caps but provide a guaranteed minimum return.
These guaranteed minimum rates are generally set at three per cent.
Jackson hedges the equity return risk on fixed indexed products using futures and options linked to the relevant index.
The cost of these hedges is taken into account in setting the index participation rates or caps.
Jackson bears the investment and surrender risk on these products.
Immediate annuities At 31 December 2007, immediate annuities accounted for two per cent 2006: two per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
Immediate annuities guarantee a series of payments beginning within a year of purchase and continuing over either a fixed period of years and or the life of the policyholder.
If the term is for the life of the policyholder, then Jacksons primary risk is mortality risk.
The implicit interest rate on these products is based on the market conditions that exist at the time the policy is issued and is guaranteed for the term of the annuity.
196 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued ii Variable annuities At 31 December 2007, VAs accounted for 45 per cent 2006: 38 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
VAs are deferred annuities that have the same tax advantages and payout options as interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities.
The primary differences between VAs and interest-sensitive or fixed indexed annuities are investment risk and return.
If a policyholder chooses a VA, the rate of return depends upon the performance of the selected fund portfolio.
Policyholders may allocate their investment to either the fixed or variable account.
Investment risk on the variable account is borne by the policyholder, while investment risk on the fixed account is borne by Jackson through guaranteed minimum fixed rates of return.
At 31 December 2007, approximately nine per cent 2006: 13 per cent of VA funds were in fixed accounts.
Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contractholder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB, annuitisation guaranteed minimum income benefit GMIB, or at specified dates during the accumulation period guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit GMWB and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit GMAB.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts as described in note D3 d. iii Life insurance Jacksons life insurance products accounted for nine per cent 2006: 10 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2007.
The products offered include variable universal life insurance, term life insurance and interest-sensitive life insurance.
iv Institutional products Jacksons institutional products consist of GICs, funding agreements including agreements issued in conjunction with Jacksons participation in the US Federal Home Loan Bank programme and medium-term note funding agreements.
At 31 December 2007, institutional products accounted for 12 per cent of policy and contract liabilities 2006: 12 per cent.
Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
If deposited funds are withdrawn earlier than the specified term of the contract, an adjustment is made that approximates a market value adjustment.
Under a funding agreement, the policyholder either makes a lump sum deposit or makes specified periodic deposits.
Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be fixed but which is usually a floating short-term interest rate linked to an external index.
The average term of the funding arrangements is one to two years.
Funding agreements terminable by the policyholder with less than 90 days notice account for less than one per cent 2006: less than one per cent of total policyholder reserves.
Medium-term note funding agreements are generally issued to support trust instruments issued on non-US exchanges or to qualified investors as defined by SEC Rule 144A.
Through the funding agreements, Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be fixed or floating, to the holders of the trust instruments.
d Risk management Jacksons main exposures are to market risk through its exposure to interest rate risk and equity risk.
Approximately 90 per cent 2006: 89 per cent of its general account investments support interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities, life business and surplus and 10 per cent 2006: 11 per cent support institutional business.
All of these types of business contain considerable interest rate guarantee features and, consequently, require that the assets that support them are primarily fixed income or fixed maturity.
Prudential is exposed primarily to the following risks in the US arising from fluctuations in interest rates: The risk of loss related to meeting guaranteed rates of accumulation following a sharp and sustained fall in interest rates: the risk of loss related to policyholder withdrawals following a sharp and sustained increase in interest rates: and the risk of mismatch between the expected duration of certain annuity liabilities and prepayment risk and extension risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
Jackson enters into financial derivative transactions, including those noted below to reduce and manage business risks.
These transactions manage the risk of a change in the value, yield, price, cash flows, or quantity of, or a degree of exposure with respect to assets, liabilities or future cash flows, which Jackson has acquired or incurred.
197 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued Jackson uses free-standing derivative instruments for hedging purposes.
Additionally, certain liabilities, primarily trust instruments supported by funding agreements, fixed indexed annuities, certain GMWB variable annuity features and reinsured GMIB variable annuity features contain embedded derivatives as defined by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Jackson does not account for such derivatives as either fair value or cash flow hedges as might be permitted if the specific hedge documentation requirements of IAS 39 were followed.
Financial derivatives, including derivatives embedded in certain host liabilities that have been separated for accounting and financial reporting purposes are carried at fair value.
Value movements on the derivatives are reported within the income statement.
Under the Groups accounting policies supplementary analysis of the profit before taxes attributable to shareholders is provided as shown in note B1.
In preparing this analysis, value movements on Jacksons derivative contracts, other than for certain equity-based product management activities, are included within short-term fluctuations in investment returns and excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Value movements on derivative instruments used for certain equity-based product management activities are included within operating results based on longer-term investment returns, as the value movements broadly offset the economic impact of changed levels of benefit payments and reserves as equity markets fluctuate.
The types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: Interest rate swaps generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount.
These agreements are used for hedging purposes: forwards consist of interest spreadlock agreements, in which Jackson locks in the forward interest rate differential between a swap and the corresponding US Treasury security.
The forwards are held as a hedge of corporate spreads: put-swaption contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates.
Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 10 years.
On a net basis, put-swaptions hedge against significant upward movements in interest rates: equity index futures contracts and equity index call and put options are used to hedge Jacksons obligations associated with its issuance of fixed indexed immediate and deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees.
These annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes: total return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term floating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes: cross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jacksons foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations: spread cap options are used as a macro-economic hedge against declining interest rates.
Jackson receives quarterly settlements based on the spread between the two-year and the 10-year constant maturity swap rates in excess of a specified spread: and credit default swaps, represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio.
These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty in the event of their default in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement.
Note D3 i parts iii and iv show the sensitivities of Jacksons results through its exposure to equity risk and interest rate risk.
e Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities Under the MSB of reporting applied under IFRS 4 for insurance contracts, providing the requirements of the Companies Act, UK GAAP standards and the ABI SORP are met, it is permissible to reflect the previously applied UK GAAP basis.
Accordingly, and consistent with the basis explained in note A4, in the case of Jackson the carrying values of insurance assets and liabilities are consolidated into the Group accounts based on US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, investment contracts as defined for US GAAP purposes are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts.
These amounts are for: Any amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods i. e. deferred income : any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract: and any probable future loss on the contract i. e. premium deficiency.
198 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued Capitalised acquisition costs and deferred income for these contracts are amortised over the life of the book of contracts.
The present value of the estimated gross profits is generally computed using the rate of interest that accrues to policyholder balances sometimes referred to as the contract rate.
Estimated gross profits include estimates of the following elements, each of which will be determined based on the best estimate of amounts of the following individual elements over the life of the book of contracts without provision for adverse deviation for: Amounts expected to be assessed for mortality less benefit claims in excess of related policyholder balances: amounts expected to be assessed for contract administration less costs incurred for contract administration: amounts expected to be earned from the investment of policyholder balances less interest credited to policyholder balances: amounts expected to be assessed against policyholder balances upon termination of contracts sometimes referred to as surrender charges : and other expected assessments and credits.
VA contracts written by Jackson may, as described above, provide for GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate persistency assumptions.
The GMDB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognising the excess ratably over the life of the contract based on total expected assessments.
At 31 December 2007, the GMDB liability was valued using a series of deterministic investment performance scenarios, a mean investment return of 8.4 per cent 2006: 8.4 per cent and assumptions for lapse, mortality and expense that are the same as those used in amortising the capitalised acquisition costs.
The direct GMIB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of the annuitisation benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitisation and recognising the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments.
The assumptions used for calculating the direct GMIB liability at 31 December 2007 and 2006 are consistent with those used for calculating the GMDB liability.
Jackson regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional GMDB and GMIB liability balances, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
GMIB benefits are essentially fully reinsured, subject to annual claim limits.
As this reinsurance benefit is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39 and is, therefore, recognised at fair value with the change in fair value included as a component of short-term derivative fluctuations.
Most GMWB features are considered to be embedded derivatives under IAS 39.
Therefore, provisions for these benefits are recognised at fair value, with the change in fair value included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Certain GMWB features guarantee payments over a lifetime and, therefore, include mortality risk.
Provisions for these GMWB amounts are valued consistent with the GMDB valuation method discussed above.
The fair values of the GMWB, GMIB and GMAB reinsurance derivatives are calculated based on actuarial assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges, over the expected lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations regarding policyholder behaviour in varying economic conditions.
As the nature of these cash flows can be quite varied, stochastic techniques are used to generate a variety of market return scenarios for evaluation.
The generation of these scenarios and the assumptions as to policyholder behaviour involve numerous estimates and subjective judgements, including those regarding expected market volatility, correlations of market returns and discount rates, utilisation of the benefit by policyholders under varying conditions, and policyholder lapsation.
At each valuation date, Jackson assumes expected returns based on risk-free rates as represented by the LIBOR forward curve rates as of that date and market volatility as determined with reference to implied volatility data and evaluations of historical volatilities for various indices.
The risk-free spot rates as represented by the LIBOR spot curve as of the valuation date are used to determine the present value of expected future cash flows produced in the stochastic process.
With the exception of the GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features of VA contracts, the financial guarantee features of Jacksons contracts are in most circumstances not explicitly valued, but the impact of any interest guarantees would be reflected as they are earned in the current account value i. e. the US GAAP liability.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined under US GAAP standards SFAS 60, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Institutional products are accounted for as investment contracts under IFRS with the liability classified as being in respect of financial instruments rather than insurance contracts, as defined by IFRS 4.
In practice, there is no material difference between the IFRS and US GAAP basis of recognition and measurement for these contracts.
199 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued Certain institutional products representing obligations issued in currencies other than US dollars have been hedged for changes in exchange rates using cross-currency swaps.
The fair value of derivatives embedded in funding agreements, as well as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, are included in the carrying value of the trust instruments supported by funding agreements recorded in other non-insurance liabilities.
f Reinsurance The principal reinsurance ceded by Jackson outside the Group is on term life insurance, direct and assumed accident and health business and GMIB variable annuity guarantees.
In 2007, the premiums for such ceded business amounted to 60 million 2006: 66 million.
Net commissions received on ceded business and claims incurred ceded to external reinsurers totalled 10 million and 47 million, respectively, during 2007 2006: 12 million and 53 million respectively.
There were no deferred gains or losses on reinsurance contracts in either 2007 or 2006.
The reinsurance asset for business ceded outside the Group was 436 million 2006: 427 million.
g Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2007 The operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of 444 million for US insurance operations for 2007 has been determined after taking account of several changes of assumptions during the year.
Generally, assumptions were modified in 2007 to conform to more recent experience.
These changes included revisions to the assumptions regarding mortality rates, resulting in an increase in operating profits of 14 million, and utilisation of free partial withdrawal options, resulting in a decrease to operating profits of 4 million.
In addition, several smaller changes relating to lapse rates and other assumptions resulted in a decrease of 2 million in operating profits.
Combined with other minor modifications, the resulting net impact of all changes during the year was an increase in pre-tax profits of 8 million.
2006 The operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of 398 million for US insurance operations for 2006 was determined after taking account of several changes of assumptions during the year.
Generally, assumptions were modified in 2006 to conform to more recent experience.
These changes included revisions to the assumptions regarding utilisation of free partial withdrawal options, resulting in a decrease in Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC of 12 million.
In addition, several smaller changes relating to lapse rates, mortality rates and other assumptions resulted in an increase of 6 million in DAC.
Combined with other minor modifications, the resulting net impact of all changes during the year was a decrease in pre-tax profits of 7 million.
h Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from insurance contracts At 31 December 2007, the EEV basis value of in-force business of the US operations, after taking account of the cost of encumbered capital, and the cost of the time value of financial options and guarantees, was 1,386 million 2006: 1,320 million.
This value has been determined after applying the principles of valuation described in note D1.
The key assumptions in these projections are the risk discount rates, which are 8.1 per cent 2006: 8.4 per cent for variable annuity business and 4.8 per cent 2006: 5.6 per cent for other business, and the expected ultimate spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders for single premium deferred annuity business of 1.75 per cent.
The sensitivity of the value of in-force business and net worth to changes in key assumptions is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Economic assumptions: Discount rates 1% increase 129 127 Interest rates including consequential changes for assumed investment returns for all asset classes, market values of debt securities and all risk discount rates : 1% increase 120 190 1% decrease 17 116 Equity property yields 10% rise 58 46 Equity property market values 10% fall 63 58 Non-economic assumptions: Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 30 32 Lapse rates 10% decrease 123 110 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease in base rates i. e. increased longevity 74 75 200 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued i Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and equity to market and other risks i Currency fluctuations Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Groups US operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would reduce or increase profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2007 m 2006 m 2007 m 2006 m Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 39 42 48 51 Profit for the year 29 29 35 35 Shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations 242 247 296 293 ii Other sensitivities The principal determinants of variations in operating profit based on longer-term returns are: Growth in the size of assets under management covering the liabilities for the contracts in force: incidence of guarantees: and spread returns for the difference between investment returns and rates credited to policyholders.
For the purpose of determining longer-term returns, adjustment is necessary for the normalisation of investment returns to remove the effects of short-term volatility in investment returns.
Amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality and persistency studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for 2007 and 2006 was 8.4 per cent per annum implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
Variations in fees and other income, offset by variations in market value adjustment payments and, where necessary, strengthening of liabilities.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and GMDB reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
201 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued iii Exposure to equity risk As noted in note D3 d, Jackson is exposed to equity risk through the options embedded in the fixed indexed liabilities and GMDB and GMWB guarantees included in certain VA benefits.
This risk is managed using a comprehensive equity hedging programme to minimise the risk of a significant economic impact as a result of increases or decreases in equity market levels while taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures in Jacksons operations.
Jackson purchases external futures and options that hedge the risks inherent in these products, while also considering the impact of rising and falling separate account fees.
As a result of this hedging programme, if the equity markets were to increase, Jacksons free-standing derivatives would decrease in value.
However, over time, this movement would be broadly offset by increased separate account fees and reserve decreases, net of the related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
Due to the nature of the free-standing and embedded derivatives, this hedge, while highly effective on an economic basis, may not completely mute the immediate impact of the market movements as the free-standing derivatives reset immediately while the hedged liabilities reset more slowly see note D3 e for further details on the valuation of the guarantees and fees are recognised prospectively.
It is estimated that an immediate increase in the equity markets of 10 per cent would result in an accounting charge, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 30 million 2006: 20 million, excluding the impact on future separate account fees.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated reduction in shareholders equity at 31 December 2007 of up to 20 million 2006: 13 million.
An immediate decrease in the equity markets of 10 per cent would result in an approximately equal and opposite estimated effect on profit and shareholders equity.
The actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon the volume of new product sales and lapses, changes to the derivative portfolio, correlation of market returns and various other factors including volatility, interest rates and elapsed time.
In addition, Jackson is also exposed to equity risk from its holding of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives.
A 10 per cent decrease in their value would have given rise to an estimated 76 million 2006: 66 million reduction in pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC, for 2007.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated 50 million 2006: 43 million reduction in shareholders equity at 31 December 2007.
A 10 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity.
iv Exposure to interest rate risk Notwithstanding the market risk exposure described in note D3 d, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of liabilities of Jackson products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement described in notes D3 c and D3 e. 202 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D3: US insurance operations continued However, the debt securities and related derivatives are marked to market value.
Value movements on derivatives, again net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within profit and loss.
Market value movements on debt securities, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within the statement of changes in equity.
The estimated sensitivity of these items and policyholder liabilities to a one per cent decrease and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2007 and 2006 is as follows: A 1% decrease in A 1% increase in interest rates interest rates 2007 m 2006 m 2007 m 2006 m Profit and loss Direct effect Derivatives value change 116 95 163 109 Policyholder liabilities 38 7 29 3 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 52 29 58 30 Pre-tax profit effect Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 15 2 11 1 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 87 71 123 81 102 73 134 82 Related effect on charge for deferred tax 36 26 47 29 Net profit effect 66 47 87 53 Statement of changes in equity Direct effect on carrying value of debt securities 848 858 848 858 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 212 214 212 214 Related effect on movement in deferred tax 223 225 223 225 Net effect 413 419 413 419 Total net effect on IFRS equity 347 372 326 366 j Duration of liabilities The Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The maturity profile of the cash flows used for that purpose for 2007 and 2006 is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Fixed Fixed annuity annuity and other and other business business including including GICs and GICs and similar Variable similar Variable contracts annuity contracts annuity Policyholder liabilities 19,821 15,027 20,379 11,367 %% %% Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 51 48 53 48 5 to 10 years 26 30 26 30 10 to 15 years 11 13 11 13 15 to 20 years 56 56 20 to 25 years 32 32 Over 25 years 41 21 The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flows for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
203 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations a Summary balance sheet at 31 December 2007 Asian insurance operations With-profits Unit-linked 2007 2006 business assets and note i liabilities Other Total Total m m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 111 111 111 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 745 745 612 Total 856 856 723 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 134 58 570 762 602 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 14 14 41 Financial investments: note ii Loans 560 37 490 1,087 904 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 4,472 4,728 604 9,804 6,894 note iii Debt securities 2,329 1,901 2,690 6,920 5,391 Other investments 13 6 23 42 87 Deposits 44 118 215 377 408 Total investments 7,418 6,790 4,036 18,244 13,725 Cash and cash equivalents 194 123 362 679 618 Total assets 7,746 6,971 5,824 20,541 15,668 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,369 1,369 1,287 Minority interests 7 7 Total equity 1,376 1,376 1,287 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Insurance contract liabilities 6,280 6,971 3,661 16,912 12,706 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary participation features 84 84 68 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation features 37 37 27 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 146 146 88 Total 6,547 6,971 3,661 17,179 12,889 Other non-insurance liabilities 1,199 787 1,986 1,492 Total liabilities 7,746 6,971 4,448 19,165 14,381 Total equity and liabilities 7,746 6,971 5,824 20,541 15,668 Notes i The balance sheet for with-profits business comprises the with-profits assets and liabilities of the Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore with-profits operations.
Assets and liabilities of other participating business are included in the column for other business.
ii The loans of the Groups Asian insurance operations of 1,087 million comprise mortgage loans of 132 million, policy loans of 430 million and other loans of 525 million.
The mortgage and policy loans are secured by properties and life insurance policies respectively.
The majority of the other loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation and which are all investment graded by two local rating agencies.
204 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D4: Asian insurance operations continued Notes continued iii Credit quality of debt securities The following table summarises the credit quality of the debt securities of the Asian insurance operations as at 31 December 2007 by rating agency rating: With-profits Unit-linked Other business business business Total m m m m S&P AAA 1,367 660 257 2,284 S&P AA to AA- 242 153 1,599 1,994 S&P A to A- 299 271 105 675 S&P BBB to BBB- 142 34 17 193 S&P Other 84794 149 2,058 1,165 2,072 5,295 Moodys Aaa 16 185 201 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 7 19 19 45 Moodys A1 to A3 11 16 1 28 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 12 7 19 Moodys Other 58 58 104 227 20 351 Other 167 509 598 1,274 Total debt securities 2,329 1,901 2,690 6,920 Of the 598 million debt securities for other business which are not rated in the table above, 317 million are in respect of government bonds, 83 million corporate bonds rated as investment grade by local external ratings agencies, and 71 million structured deposits issued by banks which are themselves rated but where the specific deposits have not been.
Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and unallocated surplus The policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance of 12 million 2006: 8 million and unallocated surplus shown in the table above reflect the following balances: 2007 m 2006 m With-profits business 6,397 5,410 Unallocated surplus of Asian with-profit operations 146 88 Unit-linked business 6,971 4,134 Other business 3,653 3,249 17,167 12,881 At 31 December 2007, the policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and unallocated surplus for Asian operations of 17.2 billion 2006: 12.9 billion comprised the following: 2007 m 2006 m Singapore 5,462 4,355 Hong Kong 3,901 3,045 Taiwan 2,781 2,249 Malaysia 1,201 895 Japan 695 572 Other countries 3,127 1,765 Total Asian operations 17,167 12,881 205 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations continued b Products and guarantees The life insurance products offered by the Groups Asian operations include a range of with-profits and non-participating term, whole life, endowment and unit-linked policies.
The Asian operations also offer health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage to supplement its core life products.
The terms and conditions of the contracts written by the Asian operations and, in particular, the products options and guarantees, vary from territory to territory depending upon local market circumstances.
In general terms, the Asian participating products provide savings and protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the discretion of the insurers.
The Asian operations non-participating term, whole life and endowment products offer savings and or protection where the benefits are guaranteed or determined by a set of defined market related parameters.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying unitised funds.
Accident and Health A&H policies provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
A&H products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies but can be sold separately.
Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described in note D2 c in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts written in the Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the insurer is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all benefits.
Investment-linked products have the lowest level of guarantee if indeed they have any.
Product guarantees in Asia can be broadly classified into four main categories: namely premium rate, cash value and interest rate guarantees, policy renewability and convertibility options.
The risks on death coverage through premium rate guarantees are low due to appropriate product pricing.
Cash value and interest rate guarantees are of three types: Maturity values Maturity values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
Declared annual bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Future bonus rates and cash dividends are not guaranteed on participating products.
Surrender values Surrender values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
The surrender value of declared reversionary bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Market value adjustments and surrender penalties are used where the law permits such adjustments in cash values.
Interest rate guarantees It is common in Asia for regulations or market driven demand and competition to provide some form of capital value protection and minimum crediting interest rate guarantees.
This would be reflected within the guaranteed maturity and surrender values.
The guarantees are borne by shareholders for non-participating and investment-linked non-investment guarantees only products.
Participating product guarantees are predominantly supported by the segregated life funds and their estates.
The most significant book of non-participating business in the Asian operations is Taiwans whole of life contracts.
For these contracts there are floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception which are set by reference to minimum terms established by local regulation also at the time of inception.
These rates do not vary subsequently with market conditions.
Under these contracts, the cost of premiums are also fixed at inception based on a number of assumptions at that time, including long-term interest rates, mortality assumptions and expenses.
The guaranteed maturity and surrender values reflect the pricing basis.
The main variable that determines the amounts payable under the contracts is the duration of the contracts, which is determined by death or surrender.
The sensitivity of the IFRS result for these contracts is shown in note h below.
Whole of life contracts with floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception are also written in the Korean life operations, though to a much less significant extent than in Taiwan.
The Korean business has non-linked liabilities and linked liabilities at 31 December 2007 of 261 million and 728 million respectively 2006: 226 million and 316 million respectively.
The business is much less sensitive to returns than Taiwan with a higher proportion of linked and health business.
The other area of note in respect of guarantees is the Japanese business where pricing rates are higher than current bond yields.
Lapse risk is a feature in that policyholders could potentially surrender their policies on guaranteed terms if interest rates significantly increased leaving the potential for losses if bond values had depreciated significantly.
However, the business is matched to a relatively short realistic liability duration.
206 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D4: Asian insurance operations continued The method for determining liabilities of insurance contracts for UK GAAP, and hence IFRS, purposes for some Asian operations is based on US GAAP principles and this method applies to contracts with cash value and interest rate guarantees.
Following standard US GAAP procedure, premium deficiency reserve calculations are performed each year to establish whether the carrying values of the liabilities are sufficient.
On the US GAAP basis the calculations are deterministic, that is to say based on a single set of projections, and expected long-term rates of return are applied.
c Exposure to market risk The Asian operations sell with-profits and unit-linked policies and, although the with-profits business generally has a lower terminal bonus element than in the UK, the investment portfolio still contains a proportion of equities and, to a lesser extent, property.
Non-participating business is largely backed by debt securities or deposits.
With the principal exception of Taiwans whole of life policy book, as described in note h below, the exposure to market risk of the Group arising from its Asian operations is at modest levels.
This arises from the fact that the Asian operations have a balanced portfolio of with-profits, unit-linked and other types of business.
d Process for setting assumptions and determining liabilities The future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses in the Groups IFRS accounts and previously under the MSB, are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For Asian operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business written is primarily non-participating and linked business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate reporting basis.
Of the more significant Asian operations, this basis is applied in Taiwan, Japan and Vietnam.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined under FAS 60 using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claims expenses.
For the traditional business in Taiwan, the economic scenarios used to calculate the IFRS results reflect the assumption of a phased progression of bond yields from current rates to long-term expected rates.
The projections assume that the current bond yields of around 2.5 per cent 2006: 2 per cent trend towards 5.5 per cent 2006: 5.5 per cent at 31 December 2013 2006: 2013. e Reinsurance The Asian businesses cede only minor amounts of business outside the Group with immaterial effects on reported profit.
During 2007, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 52 million 2006: 47 million and the reinsurance assets were 12 million 2006: 8 million in aggregate.
f Effect of changes in bases and assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities There are no changes of assumptions that had a material impact on the 2007 and 2006 results of Asian operations.
g Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from insurance contracts At 31 December 2007, the EEV basis value of in-force business of the Asian operations, after taking account of the cost of encumbered capital and the cost of the time value of financial options and guarantees was 2,770 million 2006: 1,628 million.
The most significant businesses in Asia are in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan.
These businesses account for 74 per cent 2006: 75 per cent of the total value of business in-force for the Asian operations.
These EEV basis in-force values have been determined after applying the principles of valuation described in section D1 and the following key assumptions for the four most significant businesses.
207 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations continued 2007 % 2006 % Expected Expected Risk discount long-term Risk discount long-term rate in-force rate of Government rate in-force rate of Government business inflation bond yield business inflation bond yield Hong Kong 6.0 2.25 4.1 6.8 2.25 4.7 Malaysia 9.1 2.75 6.5 9.2 3.00 7.0 Singapore 6.8 1.75 4.25 6.9 1.75 4.5 Taiwan 9.8 2.25 5.5 9.3 2.25 5.5 Hong Kong business is predominantly US dollar denominated.
For 2007, cash rates rather than government bond yields were used in setting the risk discount rates for Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and for Hong Kong dollar denominated business.
For 2006, cash rates were used for these operations and for all Hong Kong business i. e. including US dollar denominated business.
The most significant equity holdings in Asian operations are in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore.
The arithmetic average equity return assumptions for these three territories at 31 December 2007 were 8.1 per cent, 12.5 per cent and 9.3 per cent respectively 2006: 8.7 per cent, 12.8 per cent and 9.3 per cent respectively.
For Taiwan the same assumptions are applied as under IFRS see note d above.
The sensitivity of the value of in-force business and net worth to changes in key assumptions is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Economic assumptions: Discount rates 1% increase 386 271 Interest rates including consequential changes for assumed investment returns for all assets classes, market values of debt securities and all risk discount rates : 1% increase 29 42 1% decrease 2 115 Equity property yields 10% rise 234 154 Equity property market values 10% fall 136 99 Non-economic assumptions: Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 54 45 Lapse rates 10% decrease 142 93 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease in base rates i. e. increased longevity 98 77 In addition to these disclosures, for Asian operations as a whole it should be noted that the cash flows of the Taiwan life business are particularly sensitive to projected rates of investment return as described in note h iii below.
h Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and equity to market and other risks Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asian operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2007, the rates for the most significant operations are given in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates and those of other Asian operations would have reduced or increased profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2007 m 2006 m 2007 m 2006 m Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 16 33 20 34 Profit for the year 10 21 13 25 Shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations 124 116 151 143 208 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D4: Asian insurance operations continued Other risks i With-profits business Similar principles to those explained for UK with-profits business apply to profit emergence for the Asian with-profits business.
Correspondingly, the profit emergence reflects bonus declaration and is relatively insensitive to period by period fluctuations in insurance risk or interest rate movements.
ii Unit-linked business As for the UK insurance operations, the profits and shareholders equity related to the Asian operations is primarily driven by charges related to invested funds.
For the Asian operations, substantially all of the contracts are classified as insurance contracts under IFRS 4, i. e. containing significant insurance risk.
The sensitivity of profits and equity to changes in insurance risk is minor and, to interest rate risk, not material.
iii Other business Taiwan whole of life business interest rate risk on deferred acquisition costs and policyholders liabilities The principal other business of Asian operations is the traditional whole of life business written in Taiwan.
The in-force business of the Taiwan life operation includes traditional whole of life policies where the premium rates have been set by the regulator at different points for the industry as a whole.
Premium rates also included allowance for mortality and expenses.
The required rates of guarantee have fallen over time as interest rates have reduced from a high of eight per cent to current levels of around 2.5 per cent.
The current low level of bond rates in Taiwan gives rise to a negative spread for the majority of these policies.
The current cash cost of funding in-force negative spread in Taiwan is around 45 million a year.
The profits attaching to these contracts are particularly affected by the rates of return earned, and estimated to be earned, on the assets held to cover liabilities and on future investment income and contract cash flows.
Under this basis, the policy liabilities are calculated on sets of assumptions, which are locked in at the point of policy inception, and a deferred acquisition cost is held in the balance sheet.
The assumed earned rates consist of a long-term best estimate determined by consideration of long-term market conditions and rates assumed to be earned in the trending period.
For 2007 and 2006, it has been projected that rates of return for Taiwanese bond yields will trend from the then current levels of some 2.5 per cent 2.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent by 31 December 2013.
The liability adequacy test results are sensitive to the attainment of the trended rates during the trending period.
Based on the current asset mix, margins in other contracts that are used in the assessment of the liability adequacy tests and currently assumed future rates of return, if interest rates were to remain at current levels in 2008 and 2009 and the target date for attainment of the long-term bond yield deferred to 31 December 2015, the premium reserve, net of deferred acquisition costs, would be sufficient.
If interest rates were to remain at current levels beyond the end of 2009 with the date of the attainment of the long-term rate further delayed, the margin within the net GAAP reserve will reduce further.
However, the need to write off deferred acquisition costs or increase the liabilities, and by how much, would be affected by the impact of new business written between 31 December 2007 and the future reporting dates to the extent that the business is taken into account as part of the liability adequacy testing calculations for the portfolio of contracts.
The adequacy of the liability is also sensitive to the level of the projected long-term rate on bonds.
The current long-term assumption of 5.5 per cent has been determined on a prudent best estimate basis by reference to detailed assessments of the financial dynamics of the Taiwanese economy.
In the event that the rate applied was altered, the carrying value of the deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities would potentially be affected.
At 31 December 2007, if the assumed long-term bond yield applied had been reduced by 0.5 per cent from 5.5 per cent to 5.0 per cent and continued to apply the same progression period to 31 December 2013, by assuming bond yields increase from current levels in equal annual instalments to the long-term rate, the premium reserve, net of deferred acquisition costs, would have been sufficient.
The impact of reducing the long-term rate by a further 0.5 per cent to 4.5 per cent would have been such that the net GAAP reserve would have met the liability adequacy test but with no margin available to cover further deterioration.
An additional 0.5 per cent reduction in the assumed long-term rate from 4.5 per cent to 4.0 per cent would lead to a charge of some 200 million.
209 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations continued The adequacy of the Taiwan insurance contract liabilities is also sensitive to movements in short-term movements in market interest rates.
This is because a reduction in the current interest rates would alter the progression rate to the long-term rate and the assumed timing of attainment of the rate may be insufficient and they would have been deferred.
If the interest rates at 31 December 2006 of circa 2 per cent had been lower by 0.5 per cent and the date for the attainment of the long-term rate deferred by one year to 2014 the effect on the net premium reserve would have been a charge of approximately 60 million.
If the interest rate at 31 December 2007 of circa 2.5 per cent had been lower by 0.5 per cent with the same progression period and long-term rate the net premium reserve would have been adequate and no charge would have been necessary.
For the Korean and Japanese life business exposures described in note b above, the results are comparatively unaffected by changes of assumption.
The accounts basis value of liabilities for both operations are of a similar order of magnitude to those that apply for the purposes of Group solvency calculations under the Insurance Groups Directive IGD.
Interest rate risk for other business excluding Taiwan In addition to the sensitivity of the Taiwan results to the impact of current period and longer-term interest rates on liability adequacy tests, as described above, the other business and solvency capital of Asian operations are also sensitive to the vagaries of routine movements in interest rates.
Asian operations offer a range of insurance and investment products, predominantly with-profits and non-participating term, whole life endowment and unit linked.
Excluding with-profit and unit-linked business along with Taiwan, which is detailed above, 72 per cent 2006: 78 per cent of the bond portfolio for other business of Asian operations at 31 December 2007 was held in Japan, Singapore and Vietnam with corporate bond rates varying from territory to territory and ranging from 1.5 per cent to 9.1 per cent at 31 December 2007 1.7 per cent to 8.8 per cent at 31 December 2006 for these three countries.
An analysis of movements in bond rates during previous periods and its impact on IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity has been undertaken, with reasonably possible movements for these countries being considered to be 0.25 per cent for Japan, 0.5 per cent for Singapore and 1.0 per cent for Vietnam.
Based on these movements, plus indicative changes for bonds held in other Asian operations within the region, the impact on IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity from a reasonably possible change in interest rates for Asian operations excluding Taiwan at 31 December 2007 has been assessed, with rate movements ranging from 0.25 per cent to 1.0 per cent 2006: 0.25 per cent to 1.0 per cent dependent on country.
Looking at the region in aggregate and noting that interest rates are unlikely to move consistently by the same degree from period to period, the range of movements considered to be reasonably possible would result in a change in IFRS profit or loss of plus or minus 30 million 2006: 32 million.
These amounts, if they arose, would be recorded within the category short-term fluctuations in investment returns in the Groups supplementary analysis of profit before tax.
After adjusting for deferred tax the reasonably possible effect on shareholders equity is plus or minus 22 million 2006: 24 million.
210 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D4: Asian insurance operations continued Equity price risk The principal holders of equity securities are the Taiwan, Singapore and Vietnam businesses.
For the Taiwan and Singapore operations market changes have a direct effect on profit and loss with no matching effect on the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
This is also true for the Vietnam business.
However, to the extent that equity investment appreciation is realised through sales of securities then policyholders liabilities are adjusted to the extent that policyholders participate.
The impact of a 10 per cent change in equity prices for shareholder-backed Asian other business, which would be reflected in the short-term fluctuation component of the Groups supplementary analysis of profit before tax, would be as follows: 2007 m 2006 m 10% 10% 10% 10% increase decrease increase decrease Pre-tax 73 73 67 67 Related deferred tax where applicable 5 5 8 8 Net effect on profit and equity 68 68 59 59 i Duration of liabilities The Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The maturity profile of the cash flows, taking account of expected future premiums and investment returns, is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Policyholder liabilities 17,033 12,801 % % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 22 22 5 to 10 years 22 20 10 to 15 years 16 16 15 to 20 years 13 13 20 to 25 years 9 10 Over 25 years 18 19 211 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses a Summary statement The Groups estimated capital position for life assurance businesses with reconciliations to shareholders equity is shown below.
Available capital for each fund or group of companies is determined by reference to local regulation at 31 December 2007 and 2006.
2007 m Parent Other UK company life and shareassurance holders Total PAC subsidiaries equity of withand Asian life Total life other WPSF profits funds assurance assurance subsidiaries Group 31 December 2007 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations M&G and funds total Group shareholders equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 550 2,690 1,258 4,498 271 723 4,046 Goodwill 111 111 1,153 77 1,341 Total 550 2,690 1,369 4,609 1,424 646 5,387 note iii Held in long-term funds 814 814 814 Total Group shareholders equity 1,364 2,690 1,369 5,423 1,424 646 6,201 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note v with-profits funds 14,205 14,205 146 14,351 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 4,178 4,178 4,178 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business and goodwill not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes 4 15 19 143 1,928 790 2,880 note iv Jackson surplus notes 125 125 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension surplus attributable to WPSF to pension liability note vii for regulatory purposes 530 530 530 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,117 1,117 1,117 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF note v on a Peak 2 realistic basis 4 355 359 239 1,364 96 1,388 Total adjustments 0 8,720 8,720 382 439 740 7,159 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 0 8,720 8,720 982 2,251 629 12,582 212 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued 2007 m Other UK life Total PAC assurance withsubsidiaries Asian life Total life WPSF profits and funds assurance assurance 31 December 2007 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations Policyholder liabilities With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 12,672 34,029 46,701 3,307 50,008 Investment contracts with discretionary participating features 693 28,773 29,466 84 29,550 Total 13,365 62,802 76,167 3,391 79,558 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 2,973 2,973 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 2,029 2,029 8,198 15,027 6,971 32,225 Other life assurance business 255 11,494 11,749 14,121 17,899 3,661 47,430 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the note vi UK and GIC liabilities of Jackson 14 14 12,059 1,922 37 14,032 Total 255 13,537 13,792 34,378 34,848 13,642 96,660 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet 13,620 76,339 89,959 34,378 34,848 17,033 176,218 213 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued 2006 m Parent company Other UK and sharelife holders Total PAC assurance equity of withsubsidiaries Asian life Total life other WPSF profits and funds assurance assurance subsidiaries Group 31 December 2006 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations M&G Egg and funds total Group shareholders equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 612 2,656 1,176 4,444 230 292 1,519 3,447 Goodwill 111 111 1,153 77 1,341 Total 612 2,656 1,287 4,555 1,383 292 1,442 4,788 note iii Held in long-term funds 700 700 700 Total Group shareholders equity 1,312 2,656 1,287 5,255 1,383 292 1,442 5,488 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note v with-profits funds 13,511 13,511 88 13,599 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 4,000 4,000 4,000 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business and goodwill not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes 5 26 31 146 1,712 673 2,562 note iv Jackson surplus notes 127 127 Part of IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF not recognised for regulatory note vii purposes 244 244 244 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,076 1,076 1,076 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF note v on a Peak 2 realistic basis 5 523 528 263 1,012 136 1,141 Total adjustments 0 8,688 8,688 409 573 721 6,985 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 0 8,688 8,688 903 2,083 566 12,240 214 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued 2006 m Other UK life Total PAC assurance withsubsidiaries Asian life Total life WPSF profits and funds assurance assurance 31 December 2006 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations Policyholder liabilities With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 13,162 31,925 45,087 2,659 47,746 Investment contracts with discretionary participating features 737 27,928 28,665 68 28,733 Total 13,899 59,853 73,752 2,727 76,479 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 2,658 2,658 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 2,039 2,039 7,766 11,367 4,134 25,306 Other life assurance business 231 12,245 12,476 12,955 18,817 3,255 47,503 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unitlinked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities note vi of Jackson 12 12 11,441 1,562 27 13,042 Total 231 14,296 14,527 32,162 31,746 10,074 88,509 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet 14,130 74,149 88,279 32,162 31,746 12,801 164,988 Notes i WPSF unallocated surplus includes amounts related to the Hong Kong branch.
Policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch are included in the amounts of Asian life assurance subsidiaries.
ii Excluding PAC shareholders equity that are included in parent company and shareholders equity of other subsidiaries and funds.
iii The term shareholders equity held in long-term funds refers to the excess of assets over liabilities attributable to shareholders of funds which are required by law to be maintained with segregated assets and liabilities.
iv For regulatory purposes the Jackson surplus notes are accounted for as capital.
v Other adjustments to shareholders equity and unallocated surplus include amounts for the value of non-participating business for UK regulated with-profits funds, deferred tax, admissibility and other items measured differently on the regulatory basis.
For 2006 the other adjustments for UK regulated with-profits funds included inadmissible assets of the WPSF of 256 million.
For Jackson the principal reconciling item is deferred tax related to deferred acquisition costs of 675 million 2006: 599 million.
vi Insurance business accounted for as financial instruments under IAS 39. vii In determining the IAS 19 adjustment for the purposes of this table the surplus deficit in the Groups main pension scheme used for the calculation includes amounts for investments in Prudential insurance policies see note I1.
215 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued b Basis of preparation, capital requirements and management Each of the Groups long-term business operations is capitalised to a sufficiently strong level for its individual circumstances.
Details by the Groups major operations are shown below.
i UK insurance operations The FSA rules which govern the Prudential regulation of insurance form part of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, the General Prudential Sourcebook and Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
Overall, the net requirements of the General Prudential Sourcebook are intended to align the capital adequacy requirements for insurance business more closely with those of banking and investment firms and building societies, for example, by addressing tiers of capital, rather than looking at net admissible assets.
An insurer must hold capital resources equal at least to the Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
The Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers also contains rules on Individual Capital Assessments.
Under these rules and the rules of the General Prudential Sourcebook all insurers must assess for themselves the amount of capital needed to back their business.
If the FSA views the results of this assessment as insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance for a firm, which can be superimposed as a requirement.
PAC WPSF and SAIF Under FSA rules, insurers with with-profits liabilities of more than 500 million must hold capital equal to the higher of the MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a with-profit insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly speaking equivalent to the previous required minimum margin under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook and satisfies the minimum EU Standards.
Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two separate measurements of the firms resources requirement, which the FSA refers to as the twin peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: i the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and ii a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers expected future contractual liabilities together with projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
Available capital of the WPSF and SAIF of 8.7 billion 2006: 8.7 billion represents the excess of assets over liabilities on the FSA realistic basis.
Unlike the previously discussed FRS 27 basis, realistic liabilities on the regulatory basis include the shareholders share of future bonuses.
These amounts are shown before deduction of the risk capital margin RCM which is estimated to be 2.0 billion at 31 December 2007 2006: 1.9 billion.
The FSAs basis of setting the RCM is to target a level broadly equivalent to a Standard & Poors credit rating of BBB and to judge this by ensuring there are sufficient assets to absorb a 1 in 200 year event.
The RCM calculation achieves this by setting rules for the determination of margins to cover defined stress changes in asset values and yields for market risk, credit risk and termination risk for with-profits policies.
As noted in section D2 e ii, PAC has discretion in its management actions in the case of adverse investment conditions.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary bonuses, crediting rates and total claim values.
To illustrate the flexibility of management actions, rates of regular bonus are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting them at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on the underlying assets.
The expected future investment return is reduced as appropriate for each type of policy to allow for items such as expenses, charges, tax and shareholders transfers.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type, or by date of payment of the premiums or date of issue of the policy, if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change, the PAC board has regard to the overall financial strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended product target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes to regular bonus rates to be gradual over time and changes are not expected to exceed one per cent per annum over any year.
However, discretion is retained as to whether or not a regular bonus is declared each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can be changed.
216 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued As regards smoothing of maturity and death benefits, in normal circumstances PAC does not expect most pay-out values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance pay-out values between different policies.
Greater flexibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example following a significant rise or fall in market values either sudden or over a period of years and in such situations the PAC board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
For surrender benefits, any substantial fall in the market value of the assets of the with-profits sub-fund would lead to immediate changes in the application of MVRs for accumulating with-profits policies, firstly to increase the size of MVRs already being applied and, secondly, to extend the range of policies for which an MVR is applied.
Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The available capital of 982 million 2006: 903 million reflects the excess of regulatory basis assets over liabilities of the subsidiaries and funds, before deduction of the capital resources requirement of 841 million 2006: 809 million.
The capital resources requirement for these companies broadly reflects a formula which, for active funds, equates to a percentage of regulatory reserves plus a percentage of death strains.
ii Jackson The regulatory framework for Jackson is governed by the requirements of the US NAIC approved risk-based capital standards.
Under these requirements life insurance companies report on a formula-based capital standard that they calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items.
The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk.
The available capital of Jackson shown above of 2,251 million 2006: 2,083 million reflects US regulatory basis assets less liabilities excluding asset valuation reserves.
The asset valuation reserve is designed to provide for future credit-related losses on debt securities and losses on equity investments.
Available capital includes a reduction for the effect of the interest maintenance reserve, which is designed by state regulators to defer recognition of non-credit related realised capital gains and losses and to recognise them rateably in the future.
Jacksons risk-based capital ratio is significantly in excess of regulatory requirements.
iii Asian operations The available capital shown above of 629 million 2006: 566 million represents the excess of local regulatory basis assets over liabilities before deduction of required capital of 265 million 2006: 211 million.
These amounts have been determined applying the local regulations in each of the operations.
The businesses in Asia are subject to local capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Hong Kong business branch of PAC and its capital requirements are subsumed within those of the PAC long-term fund.
For the other material Asian operations, the details of the basis of determining regulatory capital and regulatory capital requirements are as follows: Singapore In Singapore a risk based regulatory framework applies rather than one based on a net premium approach.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve, determined using prudent best estimate assumptions and which makes allowance for future bonus, is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of the higher of the assets attributed to participating business and a gross premium reserve calculated on specified assumptions, but without allowance for future bonus, that include prescribed provisions for adverse deviations PADs.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves are held.
For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
Taiwan Basic policy reserves are determined using a net premium method.
Both mortality and interest rates are specified.
For more recent issues, the valuation rate of interest has been linked to the prevailing market rate on 10-year government bonds.
Solvency capital is determined using a risk-based capital approach.
Japan Mathematical reserves for traditional business are determined on a net premium basis using prescribed mortality and interest rates.
Interest rates reflect the original pricing assumptions.
With regard to solvency, the adjusted solvency capital assets of the Company must exceed 200 per cent of the risk related capital requirement value at risk.
It is thus a risk-based capital approach.
217 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued Malaysia Mathematical reserves for traditional business are determined on a modified net premium basis using prescribed mortality and interest rates no higher than four per cent.
The capital requirement is determined as four per cent of reserves plus a specified percentage of sums at risk.
There is an overriding minimum capital requirement of 100 million Malaysian Ringgit.
Vietnam Mathematical reserves are calculated using a modified net premium approach, using a stable set of assumptions agreed with the regulator.
The capital requirement is determined as four per cent of reserves plus a specified percentage of sums at risk of 0.1 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term less than or equal to five years or 0.3 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term more than five years.
Korea Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on net premium reserve basis using pricing mortality and prescribed standard interest rates.
For linked business, the value of units is held together with the non-unit reserves calculated in accordance with regulatory standard actuarial methodology.
The capital requirement in Korea is determined as four per cent of the policy reserves and expected claims after reinsurance.
Insurance companies in Korea are expected to maintain a level of free surplus in excess of the capital requirements with the usual level of solvency margin being around 200 per cent of the required capital.
iv Group capital requirements In addition to the requirements at individual company level, FSA requirements under the IGD apply additional prudential requirements for the Group as a whole.
Previously, whilst the Group owned Egg, it was required to comply with the broadly equivalent requirements of the FCD.
Discussion of the Groups estimated IGD position at 31 December 2007 is provided in the operating and financial review section of the Groups 2007 Annual Report and in section C. 218 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued c Movements in total available capital Total available capital for the Groups life assurance operations has changed during 2007 as follows: 2007 m Other UK life assurance subsidiaries Asian life WPSF and funds Jackson assurance Group note i note iii note ii subsidiaries total Available capital at 31 December 2006 8,688 903 2,083 566 12,240 Changes in assumptions 335 33 4 364 Changes in management policy 12 12 Changes in regulatory requirements 7 7 New business and other factors 367 112 175 47 701 Available capital at 31 December 2007 8,720 982 2,251 629 12,582 Detail on the movement for 2006 is as follows: 2006 m Other UK life assurance subsidiaries Asian life WPSF and funds Jackson assurance Group note i note iii note ii subsidiaries total Available capital at 31 December 2005 7,979 759 2,257 570 11,565 Changes in assumptions 61 3 2 56 Changes in management policy Changes in regulatory requirements 80 80 New business and other factors 648 67 174 2 539 Available capital at 31 December 2006 8,688 903 2,083 566 12,240 Notes i WPSF The increase in 2007 reflects investment return earned on the opening available capital partially offset by the 335 million effect of assumption changes and a 214 million impact from a change in the risk-free yield curve which affects the outlook for future investment returns.
The 335 million effect of assumption changes on a regulatory basis compares to the 392 million effect of change in assumptions on an IFRS basis as shown in note D2 g. The 648 million increase in available capital in 2006 for new business and other factors incorporates the effects of the strong investment returns in 2006 and the improved outlook for future investment returns at that time.
ii Jackson The increase of 168 million in 2007 reflects an underlying increase of 203 million applying the 2007 year end exchange rate of 1.99 and 35 million of exchange translation loss.
The decrease of 174 million in 2006 reflected an underlying increase of 100 million applying the 2006 year end exchange rate of 1.96 and 274 million of exchange translation loss.
iii Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The effect from the changes in assumptions of valuation interest rates on insurance liabilities is broadly matched by the corresponding effect on assets leaving no significant impact on the available capital.
The increase in available capital in 2006 from changes in regulatory requirements of 80 million was primarily due to regulatory changes for UK regulated shareholder-backed non-participating business from the FSAs policy statement PS06 14 confirmed in December 2006.
The changes allowed liabilities for this business to incorporate more economic realism.
Additional details are shown in note D2.
219 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued d Transferability of available capital For PAC and all other UK long-term insurers, long-term business assets and liabilities must, by law, be maintained in funds separate from those for the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance business or to shareholders.
Only the established surplus the excess of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund determined through a formal valuation may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes.
Distributions from the with-profits sub-fund to shareholders reflect the shareholders one-ninth share of the cost of declared policyholders bonuses.
Accordingly, the excess of assets over liabilities of the PAC long-term fund is retained within that company.
The retention of the capital enables it to support with-profits and other business of the fund by, for example, providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees.
It also provides investment flexibility for the funds assets by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
For other UK long-term business subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels which provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the regulatory minimum.
For Jackson, capital retention is maintained at a level consistent with an appropriate rating by Standard & Poors.
Currently Jackson is rated AA.
Jackson can pay dividends on its capital stock only out of earned surplus unless prior regulatory approval is obtained.
Furthermore, dividends which exceed the greater of 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus or statutory net gain from operations for the prior year require prior regulatory approval.
For Asian subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels that provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the local regulatory minimum.
For ring-fenced with-profits funds, the excess of assets over liabilities is retained with distribution tied to the shareholders share of bonuses through declaration of actuarially determined surplus.
The Singapore and Malaysian businesses may, in general, remit dividends to the UK, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
Available capital of the non-insurance business units is transferable to the life assurance businesses after taking account of an appropriate level of operating capital, based on local regulatory solvency targets, over and above basis liabilities.
The economic capital model described in section D1 concentration of risks takes into account restrictions on mobility of capital across the Group with capital transfers to and from business units triggered at a solvency level consistent with these targets.
The model takes into account restrictions on the availability to the Group of the estate of the various with-profits funds throughout the Group.
e Sensitivity of liabilities and total capital to changed market conditions and capital management policies Prudential manages its assets, liabilities and capital locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the different types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result of the diversity of products offered by Prudential and the different regulatory requirements in which it operates, Prudential employs differing methods of asset liability and capital management, depending on the business concerned.
Stochastic modelling of assets and liabilities is undertaken in the UK, Jackson and Asia to assess the economic capital requirements under different confidence intervals and time horizons.
In addition, reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency testing is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the UK, the US and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation, management actions and policyholder behaviour under a large number of alternative economic scenarios.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, continue to be set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
The sensitivity of liabilities and other components of total capital vary depending upon the type of business concerned and this conditions the approach to asset liability management.
For example, for businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of debt securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis is used in the UK for annuity business and by Jackson for its interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities and stable value products.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the future returns on its investments under different scenarios which best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this methodology extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
220 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial D statements D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued f Intra-group arrangements in respect of SAIF Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benefits in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds, under their obligation to maintain the capital position of long-term funds generally, having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
221 Notes on the Group financial statements E: Asset management including US broker-dealer and other operations The Groups asset management operations are based in the UK, Asia and the US where they operate different models and under different brands tailored to their markets.
Asset management in the UK is undertaken through M&G which is made up of three distinct businesses, being Retail, Wholesale and Finance, and whose operations include retail asset management, institutional fixed income, pooled life and pension funds, property and private finance.
M&G also manage the Groups balance sheet.
Asset management in Asia serves both the life companies in Asia by managing the life funds and funds underlying the investment linked products and third party customers through mutual fund business.
Asia offers mutual fund investment products in a number of countries within the region, allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money market investments.
Asset management in the US is undertaken through PPM America which manages assets for the Groups US, UK and Asian affiliates plus also provides investment services to other affiliated and unaffiliated institutional clients including CDOs, private investment funds, institutional accounts and mutual funds.
In addition, broker-dealer activities are undertaken in the US where trades in securities are carried out for both third party customers and for its own account.
Other operations covers unallocated corporate activities and includes the head office functions.
E1: Income statement for asset management operations The profit included in the income statement in respect of asset management operations for the year is as follows: Asset management operations 2007 m 2006 m M&G US Asia Total Total Revenue 810 386 201 1,397 1,080 Charges 547 377 129 1,053 797 Profit before tax 263 9 72 344 283 Profit before tax for asset management operations comprise: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 254 8 72 334 262 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 4 1 5 Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit schemes 5 5 21 Profit before tax 263 9 72 344 283 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns includes nil 2006: 2 million of UK restructuring costs.
222 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial E statements E2: Balance sheet for asset management operations Assets, liabilities and shareholders funds included in the Group consolidated balance sheet in respect of asset management operations are as follows: Asset management operations 2007 m 2006 m M&G US Asia Total Total Assets Intangible assets: Goodwill 1,153 16 61 1,230 1,230 Deferred acquisition costs 6 6 6 Total 1,159 16 61 1,236 1,236 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 304 132 85 521 415 Investment properties 1 Financial investments: note i Loans 2,334 2,334 2,181 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 11 6 17 13 note ii Debt securities 857 25 882 678 Other investments 132 19 4 155 80 Deposits 15 11 26 10 Total investments 3,334 34 46 3,414 2,963 note iii Cash and cash equivalents 1,751 33 56 1,840 951 Total assets 6,548 215 248 7,011 5,565 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,424 81 172 1,677 1,590 Minority interests 52 52 52 Total equity 1,476 81 172 1,729 1,642 Liabilities Intra Group debt represented by operational note iv borrowings at Group level 2,477 2,477 2,032 Net asset value attributable to external holders note iii of consolidated funds 1,234 1,234 513 Other liabilities 1,361 134 76 1,571 1,378 Total liabilities 5,072 134 76 5,282 3,923 Total equity and liabilities 6,548 215 248 7,011 5,565 Notes i Loans The M&G loans of 2,334 million comprise 1,383 million of bridging loan finance assets and 951 million in respect of a structured finance arrangement, both managed by Prudential Capital.
The bridging loan finance assets generally have no external credit ratings available, with internal ratings prepared by the Groups asset management operations as part of the risk management process rating 738 million BBB to BBBand 645 million BB to BB-.
Of the loans receivable under the structured finance arrangement, 826 million of the receivable was with counterparties rated AA by Standard and Poors and 125 million AA-.
In addition a AAA rated credit default swap was held covering 400 million of the AA rated element of the loans.
ii Debt securities Of the debt securities of 857 million for M&G at 31 December 2007, 278 million were rated AAA by Standard and Poors, 6 million AA, 42 million AA, 271 million AA-, 162 million A, 7 million A and 29 million A-.
Of the 62 million which was not rated by Standard and Poors 46 million was rated Aaa by Moodys.
iii Consolidated investment funds The M&G balance sheet shown above includes investment funds which are managed on behalf of third parties and that are consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for the funds.
The balance sheet includes cash and cash equivalents of 1,253 million, 19 million of other net assets and liabilities and the net asset value attributable to external unit holders of 1,234 million in respect of these funds, which are non-recourse to M&G and the Group.
iv Intra Group debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level Operational borrowings for M&G are in respect of Prudential Capitals short-term fixed income security programme and comprise 2,422 million of commercial paper and 55 million of medium-term notes.
223 Notes on the Group financial statements E: Asset management including US broker dealer and other operations continued E3: Regulatory capital positions Asset management operations in the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore, Vietnam and China are subject to regulatory requirements based on fixed operating expenses and other operating considerations.
The movement in the year of the surplus regulatory capital position of these operations, combined with the movement in the IFRS basis shareholders funds for other asset management operations, is as follows: Asset management operations 2007 m 2006 m M&G US Asia Total Total Capital surplus position Beginning of year 114 57 72 243 311 Exchange movement 1 1 15 Movement in capital requirement 6 3 9 26 Gains during the year 105 25 59 189 172 Distributions made 114 36 150 199 End of year 99 81 92 272 243 The movement in the year reflects changes in regulatory requirements whilst gains are driven by profits generated during the year.
Distributions consist of dividends paid up to the parent company.
E4: Sensitivity of profit and equity to market and other financial risk i Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asia and PPM America asset management operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase in these rates and those of other Asian operations would have reduced reported profit before tax attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill attributable to Asia and PPM America asset management operations, by 7 million 2006: 14 million and 18 million 2006: 19 million respectively.
ii Other sensitivities to other financial risks for asset management operations The principal sensitivities to other financial risk of asset management operations are credit risk on the bridging loan portfolio as described in note E2 of M&Gs Prudential Capital operation and the indirect effect of changes to market values of funds under management.
Due to the nature of the asset management operations there is limited direct sensitivity to movements in interest rates.
Total debt securities held at 31 December 2007 by asset management operations were 882 million 2006: 678 million, the majority of which are held by the Prudential Capital operation of M&G.
Debt securities held by M&G are in general variable rate bonds and so market value is limited in sensitivity to interest rate movements and consequently any change in interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or shareholders equity.
Asset management operations do not hold significant investments in property or equities.
E5: Other operations Other operations consist of unallocated corporate activities including Group Head Office GHO and Asia regional head office, with net income and expenditure for the year of 248 million 2006: 248 million for other operations detailed in note B1.
An analysis of assets and liabilities relating to other operations is shown in note B6.
224 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial E F statements F: Income statement notes F1: Segmental information The Groups primary and secondary segments are described in detail in note B6.
Primary segment information The segment results for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 are as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Revenue Long-term business 31,555 34,197 Asset management 1,397 1,080 Unallocated corporate 182 38 Intra group revenue eliminated on consolidation 268 284 Total revenue, net of reinsurance per income statement 32,866 35,031 Charges before income tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of long-term insurance funds Long-term business, including post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 30,533 32,162 Asset management 1,053 797 Unallocated corporate 363 135 Intra group charges eliminated on consolidation 268 284 Total charges per income statement 31,681 32,810 Segment results revenue less charges continuing operations Long-term business 1,022 2,035 Asset management 344 283 Unallocated corporate 181 97 Profit before tax 1,185 2,221 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 19 849 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 1,166 1,372 Tax attributable to shareholders profits 382 392 Profit from continuing operations after tax 784 980 Segment results discontinued operations Banking 241 105 Profit for the year 1,025 875 Profit before tax represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders profits.
Within segment results above, the share of post-tax profit of associates that are equity accounted for of nil 2006: 1 million is allocated to the discontinued banking segment.
In its capacity as fund manager to fellow Prudential plc subsidiaries, M&G earns fees for asset management and related services.
These services are charged at appropriate arms length prices, typically priced as a percentage of funds under management.
Total charges include 11,295 million 2006: 12,130 million of non-cash expenses other than depreciation and amortisation mainly relating to changes in technical reserves and pension actuarial and other gains and losses.
The majority of this amount is borne by the long-term business segment.
225 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F1: Segmental information continued Secondary segment information Although the Company is UK registered, the Group manages its business on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical areas: UK, US and Asia.
2007 m 2006 m Revenue UK 17,886 21,212 US 8,271 8,562 Asia 6,977 5,541 Intra group revenue 268 284 Total revenue per income statement 32,866 35,031 F2: Revenue 2007 m 2006 m Long-term business premiums Insurance contract premiums 17,308 13,805 Investment contracts with discretionary participation feature premiums 874 1,249 Inwards reinsurance premiums 177 1,103 Less: reinsurance premiums ceded 171 171 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 18,188 15,986 Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities at fair value through profit and loss 2,630 5,964 Realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 270 932 Realised gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, previously recognised directly in equity 13 7 Realised gains and losses on loans 47 3 notes i, ii Interest 5,857 5,827 Dividends 2,730 3,666 Other investment income 674 749 Investment income 12,221 17,128 note iii Fee income from investment contract business and asset management 1,039 886 Income from venture investments of the PAC with-profits funds 1,418 1,031 Other income 2,457 1,917 Total revenue 32,866 35,031 Notes i Interest income is calculated on the effective interest rate method for all financial assets that are not at fair value through profit and loss.
ii Interest income includes 2 million 2006: 3 million accrued in respect of impaired securities.
iii Fee income includes 31 million 2006: 34 million relating to financial instruments that are not held at fair value through profit and loss.
These fees primarily related to prepayment fees, late fees and syndication fees.
226 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial F statements F3: Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 2007 m 2006 m notes i, ii Acquisition costs 1,030 1,238 I1 Staff and pension costs 1,070 647 note iii Administrative and operating costs 2,423 2,327 Total acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 4,523 4,212 Notes i Acquisition costs in 2007 comprise amounts related to insurance contracts of 939 million 2006: 1,165 million, and investment contracts and asset management contracts of 91 million 2006: 73 million.
These costs include amortisation of 410 million 2006: 299 million and 3 million 2006: 6 million respectively.
ii Acquisition costs also include fee expenses relating to financial liabilities held at amortised costs of 1 million 2006: 2 million.
These expenses primarily related to fees incurred on Jacksons investment contract liabilities GICs and annuity certain contracts.
iii Administrative and operating costs include total depreciation and amortisation expense amounting to 523 million 2006: 516 million.
Of this amount, 413 million 2006: 305 million relates to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs of insurance contracts and asset management contracts, which is primarily borne by the long-term business segment.
Of the remainder of the depreciation and amortisation charge of 110 million 2006: 167 million, 98 million 2006: 156 million relates to long-term business, 8 million 2006: 8 million to asset management and 4 million 2006: 3 million to other operations.
F4: Finance costs: Interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations Finance costs consist of 158 million 2006: 166 million interest on core debt of central companies and 10 million 2006: 11 million on US operations surplus notes.
F5: Tax a Total tax expense by nature of expense An analysis of the total tax expense of continuing operations recognised in the income statement by nature of expense benefit is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Current tax expense: Corporation tax 806 688 Adjustments in respect of prior years 185 34 Total current tax 621 654 Deferred tax arising from: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 170 556 Benefit expense from a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference from a prior period 50 31 Total deferred tax credit expense 220 587 Total tax expense 401 1,241 The total tax expense arises as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Current tax expense: UK 377 381 Foreign 244 273 621 654 Deferred tax credit expense: UK 297 317 Foreign 77 270 220 587 Total 401 1,241 227 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued The total deferred tax credit expense arises as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Unrealised gains and losses on investments 225 236 Short-term timing differences 62 156 Capital allowances 4 2 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 41 198 Unused tax losses 12 5 Deferred tax credit expense 220 587 In April 2008 the standard corporation tax rate for the UK will change from 30% to 28%.
Deferred tax at the end of 2007 for UK operations has been provided at the new rate of 28 per cent on the basis that materially all of the temporary differences are expected to reverse once the new rate has taken effect.
The effect on the deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2007 was 20 million.
In 2007, a deferred tax credit of 54 million 2006: 41 million has been taken directly to reserves.
Other movements in deferred tax totalling 46 million credit mainly comprise of foreign exchange losses and as a result of the disposal of operations.
When these amounts are taken with the deferred tax credit shown above, the result is a decrease of 320 million in the Groups net deferred tax liability 2006: increase of 546 million.
In 2007, there is a tax credit of 19 million relating to discontinued banking operations 2006: 45 million see note J1.
b Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax expense is attributable to shareholders and policyholders as summarised in the income statement.
i Summary of pre-tax profit and tax charge The income statement includes the following items: 2007 m 2006 m Profit before tax 1,185 2,221 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 19 849 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 1,166 1,372 Tax attributable to shareholders profits: Tax expense 401 1,241 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 19 849 Tax attributable to shareholders profits 382 392 Profit from continuing operations after tax 784 980 ii Overview For the purposes of explaining the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit, it is appropriate to consider the sources of profit and tax by reference to those that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders, as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to shareholders policyholders Total shareholders policyholders Total Profit before tax 1,166 19 1,185 1,372 849 2,221 Taxation charge: Expected tax rate 31% 100% 32% 30% 100% 57% Expected tax charge 356 19 375 418 849 1,267 Variance from expected tax charge note v ii 26 26 26 26 Actual tax charge 382 19 401 392 849 1,241 Average effective tax rate 33% 100% 34% 29% 100% 56% For the column entitled Attributable to policyholders, the profit before tax represents income, net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
228 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial F statements F5: Tax continued Due to the requirements of the financial reporting standards IAS 1 and IAS 12, the profit before tax and tax charge reflect the aggregate of amounts that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders.
Profit before tax comprises profit attributable to shareholders and pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders of linked and with-profits funds and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
The total tax charge for linked and with-profits business includes tax expense on unit-linked and with-profits funds attributable to policyholders, the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and the shareholders profits.
This feature arises from the basis of taxation applied to life and pension business, principally in the UK, but with similar bases applying in certain Asian operations, and is explained in note iii below.
Furthermore, the basis of preparation of Prudentials financial statements incorporates the additional feature that, as permitted under IFRS 4, the residual equity of the Groups with-profits funds, i. e. unallocated surplus, is recorded as a liability with transfers to and from that liability reflected in pre-tax profits.
This gives rise to anomalous effective tax rates for profits attributable to policyholders as described in note iv below.
In meeting the reconciliation requirements set out in paragraph 81I of IAS 12, the presentation shown in this disclosure note seeks to ensure that the explanation of the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit draw properly the distinction between the elements of the profit and tax charge that are attributable to policyholders and shareholders as explained below in notes iv and v respectively.
Due to the nature of the basis of taxation of UK life and pension business as described in note iii below, and the significance of the results of the business to the Group, it is inappropriate to seek to explain the effective tax rate on profit before tax by traditional approach that would apply for other industries.
The shareholder elements are the components of the profit and tax charge that are of most direct relevance to investors, and it is this aspect that the IAS 12 requirement is seeking to explain for companies that do not need to account for both with-profits and unit-linked funds, where tax is borne by the Company on the policyholders behalf and which is not contemplated by IFRS requirement iii Basis of taxation for UK life and pension business Different rules apply under UK tax law for taxing pension business and life insurance business and there are detailed rules for apportioning the investment return and profits of the fund between the types of business.
The investment return referable to pension business, and some other less significant classes of business, is exempt from taxation, but tax is charged on the profit that shareholders derive from writing such business at the corporate rate of tax.
The rules for taxing life insurance business are more complex.
Initially, the UK regime seeks to tax the regulatory basis investment return less management expenses I-E on this business as it arises.
However, in determining the actual tax charge, a calculation of the shareholder profits for taxation purposes from writing life insurance business also has to be made and compared with the I-E profit.
If the shareholder profit is higher than the I-E amount, then relief for expenses in the I-E calculation has to be restricted until the I-E profit equals the shareholder profit.
If on the other hand, the I-E profit is the greater, then an amount equal to the shareholder profit is taxed at the corporate rate of tax, with the remainder of the I-E profit being taxed at the lower policyholder rate of tax.
The purpose of this approach is to ensure that the Company is always as a minimum taxed on the profit, as defined for taxation purposes by reference to the Companys regulatory returns rather than IFRS basis results, that it has earned.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate, with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
It is to be noted that the calculations described are determined using data from the regulatory basis returns rather than the IFRS basis results.
The differences between the regulatory and accounting bases are very significant and extremely complex rendering any explanation in general purpose financial statements to be of little if any use to users.
iv Profits attributable to policyholders and related tax As noted above, it is necessary under IFRS requirements to include the total tax charge of the Company both policyholder and shareholder elements in the tax charge disclosed in the income statement.
For with-profits business, total pre-tax profits reflect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
However, amounts attributable to the equity of with-profits funds are carried in the liability for unallocated surplus.
Also, as described in note iii, UK with-profits business is taxed on a basis that affects policyholders unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and shareholders.
For the PAC with-profits sub-fund, transfers to and from unallocated surplus are recorded in the income statement, so that after charging the total tax borne by the fund, the net balance reflects the statutory transfer from the fund for the year.
The statutory transfer represents 10 per cent of the actuarially determined surplus for the year that is attributable to shareholders.
For SAIF similar transfers are made.
However, in the case of SAIF, a net nil balance is derived, reflecting the lack of shareholder interest in the financial performance of the fund other than through asset management arrangements.
229 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued The accounting anomaly that arises under IFRS is that due to the fact that the net of tax profit attributable to with-profits policyholders is zero, the Companys presentation of pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders reflects an amount that is the mirror image of the tax charge attributable to policyholders.
For unit-linked business, pre-tax profits also reflect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
The pre-tax profits attributable to policyholders represent fees earned that are used to pay tax borne by the Company on policyholders behalf.
The net of tax profit attributable to policyholders for unit-linked business is thus zero.
The combined effect of these features is such that providing a reconciliation of the tax charge attributable to policyholders to an expected charge based on the standard corporate rate of tax on IFRS basis profits attributable to policyholders is not relevant.
In summary, for accounting purposes, in all cases and for all reporting periods, the apparent effective rate for profit attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus is 100 per cent.
However, it is to be noted that the 100 per cent rate does not reflect a rate paid on the profits attributable to policyholders.
It instead reflects the basis of accounting for unallocated surplus coupled with the distinction made for performance reporting between sources of profit attributable to shareholders, policyholders and unallocated surplus and IFRS requirements in respect of reporting of all pre-tax profits and all tax charges irrespective of policyholder or shareholder economic interest.
230 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial F statements F5: Tax continued v Reconciliation of tax charge on profits attributable to shareholders 2007 m UK Asian longinsurance term business Other operations Jackson operations operations Total Profit before tax attributable to shareholders: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 521 444 174 74 1,213 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 47 18 71 1 137 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 90 90 Total 474 426 103 163 1,166 note i Expected tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 30% 35% 21% 28% 30% Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 30% 35% 25% 28% 28% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 30% 35% 20% 28% 28% Total 30% 35% 18% 28% 31% Expected tax charge based on expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term investment note iii returns 156 155 37 21 369 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 14 6 18 0 38 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 25 25 Total 142 149 19 46 356 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 25 22 12 1 14 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 2 1 17 6 12 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes Total 27 23 29 7 26 Actual tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 181 133 49 20 383 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 12 7 1 6 26 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 25 25 Total 169 126 48 39 382 Actual tax rate: operating profit 35% 30% 28% 27% 32% : total 36% 30% 47% 24% 33% Notes i Expected tax rates for profit attributable to shareholders: Expected tax rates shown in the table above reflect the corporate tax rates generally applied to taxable profits of the relevant country jurisdictions.
For Asian operations the expected tax rates reflect the corporate tax rates weighted by reference to the source of profits of the operations contributing to the aggregate business result.
Expected tax rates for 2007 for Asia are lower than in 2006 due to an increased proportion of profits in low tax jurisdictions.
The expected tax rate for other operations is lower than 2006.
The tax rate of 28% reflects the mix of business between UK and overseas operations, which are taxed at a variety of rates.
The rate will fluctuate from year to year dependent on the mix of profits between jurisdictions.
ii Variances from expected tax charge for results attributable to shareholders: For 2007, the principal variances arise from differences between the standard corporation tax rate and actual rates due to a number of factors, including: a For UK insurance operations, disallowed expenses and prior year adjustments arising from routine revisions of tax returns: b For Jackson, the benefit of a deduction from taxable income of a proportion of dividends received attributable to the variable annuity business: c For Asian long-term operations, tax losses in several jurisdictions which are not expected to be available for relief against future profits, and losses on investments in jurisdictions which do not provide corresponding tax relief: and d For other operations, the availability of capital losses brought forward on which no deferred tax had previously been recognised, which have been used against capital gains in the period.
iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is net of attributable restructuring costs and development expenses.
231 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued v Reconciliation of tax charge on profits attributable to shareholders continued 2006 m UK Asian longinsurance term business Other operations Jackson operations operations Total Profit before tax attributable to shareholders: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 469 398 175 8 1,050 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 43 53 134 11 155 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 167 167 Total 426 451 309 186 1,372 note i Expected tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 30% 35% 25% 30% 31% Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 30% 35% 25% 30% 27% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 30% 35% 25% 30% 30% Total 30% 35% 25% 30% 31% Expected tax charge based on expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 141 139 44 2 326 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 13 19 33 3 42 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 50 50 Total 128 158 77 55 418 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 23 5 10 4 22 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 4 3 5 4 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes Total 19 8 5 4 26 Actual tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 118 134 54 2 304 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 9 16 28 3 38 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 50 50 Total 109 150 82 51 392 Actual tax rate: operating profit 25% 34% 31% 25% 29% : total 26% 33% 27% 27% 29% Notes i Expected tax rates for profit attributable to shareholders Expected tax rates shown in the table above reflect the corporate tax rates generally applied to taxable profits of the relevant country jurisdictions.
For Asian operations the expected tax rates reflect the corporate tax rate weighted by reference to the source of profits of the operations contributing to the aggregate business result.
In 2006, the expected tax rate on total profits of 31 per cent is in part due to the Asian long-term business which is subject to lower tax rates than the UK and US being a greater proportion of Group results.
ii Variances from expected tax charge for results attributable to shareholders For 2006, the principal variances arise from differences between the standard corporation tax rate and actual rates due to a number of factors, including: a The tax credit arising from relief for excess expenses in respect of the shareholder-backed protection business.
b Prior year adjustments arising from routine revisions of tax returns.
iii For 2006, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is net of attributable restructuring costs and development expenses.
iv The results from continuing operations shown above exclude those in respect of discontinued banking operations.
On 1 May 2007, the Company sold Egg Banking plc.
Comparative results for 2006 have been adjusted accordingly from those previously published.
232 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial F G statements G: Financial assets and liabilities G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values The Group designates all financial assets as either fair value through profit and loss, available-for-sale, or as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are designated as either fair value through profit and loss or amortised cost, or for investment contracts with discretionary participating features accounted for under IFRS 4 as described in note A4.
2007 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale receivables value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 4,951 4,951 4,951 Deposits 7,889 7,889 7,889 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 86,157 86,157 86,157 note i Debt securities 65,349 18,635 83,984 83,984 note ii Loans 7,924 7,924 8,105 note iii Other investments 4,396 4,396 4,396 Accrued investment income 2,023 2,023 2,023 Other debtors 1,297 1,297 1,297 155,902 18,635 24,084 198,621 2007 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying and loss cost basis value value Fair value Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed notes i, H13 operations 2,492 2,492 2,476 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 3,081 3,081 3,081 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 204 783 987 1,006 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,081 4,081 4,100 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,556 3,556 3,556 Investment contracts with discretionary participating note iv features 29,550 29,550 Investment contracts without discretionary participating features 12,110 1,922 14,032 14,034 Other creditors 1,020 1,020 1,020 Other liabilities including derivatives 1,081 790 1,871 1,871 16,951 14,169 29,550 60,670 233 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued 2006 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale receivables value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,071 5,071 5,071 Deposits 7,759 7,759 7,759 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 78,892 78,892 78,892 note i Debt securities 60,208 21,511 81,719 81,719 note ii Loans 13,754 13,754 14,274 note iii Other investments 3,220 3,220 3,220 Accrued investment income 1,900 1,900 1,900 Other debtors 1,052 1,052 1,052 142,320 21,511 29,536 193,367 Analysed by: 2006 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale receivables value Fair value Continuing operations 142,201 19,576 22,434 184,211 184,731 Discontinued banking operations 119 1,935 7,102 9,156 9,156 142,320 21,511 29,536 193,367 2006 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying and loss cost basis value value Fair value Financial liabilities Banking customer accounts 5,554 5,554 5,554 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed note i, H13 operations 3,063 3,063 3,297 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 5,609 5,609 5,609 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 553 1,223 1,776 1,798 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,232 4,232 4,229 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 2,476 2,476 2,476 Investment contracts with discretionary note iv participating features 28,733 28,733 Investment contracts without discretionary participating features 11,480 1,562 13,042 13,035 Other creditors 1,398 1,398 1,398 Other liabilities including derivatives 663 989 1,652 1,652 15,172 23,630 28,733 67,535 234 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial G statements G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued Analysed by: 2006 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying and loss cost basis value value Fair value Continuing operations 15,018 14,578 28,733 58,329 29,817 Discontinued banking operations 154 9,052 9,206 9,231 15,172 23,630 28,733 67,535 Notes i As at 31 December 2007, 722 million 2006: 624 million of convertible bonds were included in debt securities and 278 million 2006: 279 million were included in borrowings.
ii Loans and receivables are reported net of allowance for loan losses of 13 million 2006:14 million.
iii See note G3 for details of the derivative assets included.
The balance also contains the PAC with-profits funds participation in various investment funds and limited liability property partnerships.
iv It is impractical to determine the fair value of investment contracts with discretionary participation features due to the lack of a reliable basis to measure such features.
v For financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss there was no impact on profit from movements in credit risk during 2007 2006: nil.
Determination of fair value The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities as shown on the table above have been determined on the following bases.
The fair values of the financial instruments for which fair valuation is required under IFRS and which are in an active market are determined by the use of current market bid prices for quoted investments, or by using quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers and pricing services.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and if applicable enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of counterparties.
Such estimates do not reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses.
In some cases the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
The loans and receivables have been shown net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans has been estimated from discounted cash flows expected to be received.
The rate of discount used was the market rate of interest.
The estimated fair value of derivative financial instruments reflects the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay in an arms length transaction.
This amount is determined using quotations from independent third parties or valued internally using standard market practices.
In accordance with the Groups risk management framework, all internally generated valuations are subject to independent assessment against external counterparties valuations.
The fair value of borrowings is based on quoted market prices, where available.
Refer to section A4 for the determination of fair value for investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms notably UK unit-linked policies.
For investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms the fair value is determined based on the present value of future cash flows discounted at current interest rates.
The fair value of other financial liabilities is determined using discounted cash flows of the amounts expected to be paid.
235 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued Use of valuation techniques The carrying value of investments on the balance sheet of the Group which are not on active markets and therefore valued using valuation techniques as described above are as follows: 2007 m UK Shareholder-backed business with-profits fund UK PRIL US Total Total Debt securities 3,002 509 2,863 3,372 6,374 Equity securities 629 629 Other investments 2,108 743 743 2,851 5,739 509 3,606 4,115 9,854 2006 m UK Shareholder-backed business with-profits fund UK PRIL US Total Total Debt securities 2,945 396 2,859 3,255 6,200 Equity securities 59 59 Other investments 1,499 453 453 1,952 4,503 396 3,312 3,708 8,211 The majority of the financial investments valued using valuation techniques were debt securities.
Of the debt securities valued using valuation techniques of 6,374 million 2006: 6,200 million at 31 December 2007, debt securities with a fair value of 3,511 million 2006: 3,341 million were held by UK operations.
3,002 million 2006: 2,945 million of this amount related to securities held by with-profits operations and 509 million 2006: 396 million related to securities held by the shareholderbacked UK annuity subsidiary Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL.
Debt securities valued using valuation techniques held by the US operations were 2,863 million 2006: 2,859 million.
These debt securities include private debt securities such as private placements, project finance, asset securitisations and local authority securities.
The securities are mainly long-dated and not regularly traded and are valued internally using market standard practices.
The majority of the debt securities above are valued using matrix pricing, which is based on assessing credit quality of the underlying borrower to derive a suitable discount rate relative to government securities.
Under matrix pricing, the debt securities are priced by taking the credit spreads on comparable quoted public debt securities and applied to the equivalent debt instruments factoring a specified liquidity premium.
The majority of the parameters used in this valuation technique are readily observable in the market and, therefore, are not subject to interpretation.
For the UK operations, in accordance with the Groups Risk Management Framework, all internally generated calculations are subject to independent assessment by the Groups Fair Value Committees which comprise members who are independent of the fund managers involved in the day-to-day trading in these assets.
In addition to private debt securities, debt securities of US operations valued using valuation techniques also included securities held by the Piedmont trust entity, an 80 per cent Jackson held static trust formed as a result of a securitisation of asset-backed securities in 2003 that are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
As at 31 December 2007, the fair value of these Piedmont assets valued using valuation techniques was 316 million 2006: 405 million.
Significant estimates and judgements are also employed in valuing certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities held by the Piedmont trust entity.
These valuations may impact reported shareholder profit and loss amounts through the determination of impairment and recovery amounts.
Whilst management believes that the estimates and assumptions employed in developing the fair value estimates are reasonable and present managements best estimate of such values, a reasonable range of values exists with respect to most assumptions utilised in determining these values.
As a result of the potentially significant variability in the estimates of the assumptions used in these models, the range of reasonable estimates of the fair value of these securities is significant.
Management has obtained broker bids on these Piedmont trust assets that represent the value at which the Group could sell the investments, if forced.
These bids are not based on full knowledge and hence analysis of the investments, but represent the best estimate of the worst case decline in market value of these securities.
The broker bids for these securities at 31 December 2007 totalled 260 million, a difference of 56 million 2006: 372 million, a difference of 33 million, from the fair value applied.
236 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial G statements G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued The equity securities and other investments which included property and other partnerships in investment pools, venture investments and derivative assets as shown on the table above are valued using valuation techniques which apply less readily observable market factors and more non-observable factors than the matrix pricing technique as used for the majority of the debt securities.
In addition to the investments shown above, there are some minor amounts valued using valuation techniques in the Groups Asian operations.
The total amount of the change in fair value estimation using valuation techniques, including valuation techniques based on assumptions not wholly supported by observable market prices or rates, recognised in the income statement in 2007 was a gain of 101 million 2006: gain of 47 million for the with-profits fund investments.
Changes in values of assets of the with-profits funds are reflected in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus.
Due to the liability accounting treatment of unallocated surplus, changes in values of securities held by with-profits funds have no direct effect on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity.
The total amount of the change in fair value estimation using valuation techniques, including those based on assumptions not wholly supported by observable market prices or rates, recognised in the income statement in 2007 and which was attributable to shareholders, was a gain of 138 million 2006: gain of 68 million for the PRIL and US investments.
Interest income and expense The interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2007 from continuing operations was 2,016 million 2006: 2,006 million.
The interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2007 from continuing operations was 842 million 2006: 890 million.
G2: Market risk Interest rate risk The following table shows an analysis of the classes of financial assets and liabilities and their direct exposure to interest rate risk.
Each applicable class of the Groups financial assets or liabilities is analysed between those exposed to fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and those with no direct interest rate risk exposure: 2007 m Not directly Fair value Cash flow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 4,951 4,951 Deposits 678 7,211 7,889 Debt securities 76,481 7,503 83,984 Loans 4,319 3,605 7,924 Other investments including derivatives 664 285 3,447 4,396 82,142 18,604 8,398 109,144 Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2,492 2,492 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2,743 331 7 3,081 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 451 441 95 987 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 594 3,487 4,081 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,922 12,110 14,032 Other liabilities including derivatives 422 243 1,206 1,871 8,624 4,502 13,418 26,544 237 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued 2006 m Not directly Fair value Cash flow exposed to Total Discontinued interest interest interest continuing banking rate risk rate risk rate risk operations operations Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,065 5,065 6 5,071 Deposits 4,872 2,887 7,759 7,759 Debt securities 53,938 25,805 79,743 1,976 81,719 Loans  Other investments including derivatives 292 342 2,508 3,142 78 3,220 Total for continuing operations 63,623 31,171 7,573 102,367 Discontinued banking operations 1,566 7,584 6 9,156 65,189 38,755 7,579 111,523 Financial liabilities Banking customer accounts 5,554 5,554 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2,612 2,612 451 3,063 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2,282 501 7 2,790 2,819 5,609 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 1,486 219 71 1,776 1,776 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 851 3,381 4,232 4,232 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,562 11,480 13,042 13,042 Other liabilities including derivatives 393 225 652 1,270 382 1,652 Total for continuing operations 9,186 4,326 12,210 25,722 Discontinued banking operations 451 8,527 228 9,206 9,637 12,853 12,438 34,928 238 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial G statements G2: Market risk continued Liquidity analysis 2007 m After After After After Total 1 year 1 year to 5 years to 10 years to 15 years to Over No stated carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity value Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations 248 366 315 801 762 2,492 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 2,618 51 355 57 3,081 Borrowings attributable to with-profits H13 funds 103 232 265 83 304 987 Obligations under funding, stocklending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,081 4,081 Other liabilities including derivatives 1,314 181 12 33 6 173 152 1,871 8,116 712 632 399 321 1,114 1,218 12,512 2006 m After After After After Total 1 year 1 year to 5 years to 10 years to 15 years to Over No stated carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity value Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations 150 248 335 313 803 763 2,612 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 2,048 61 521 160 2,790 Borrowings attributable to with-profits H13 funds 33 331 541 19 57 795 1,776 Obligations under funding, stocklending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,232 4,232 Other liabilities including derivatives 749 203 19 39 7 125 128 1,270 Total for continuing operations 7,212 843 1,081 374 339 1,145 1,686 12,680 Discontinued operations 6,869 1,886 250 201 9,206 14,081 2,729 1,331 575 339 1,145 1,686 21,886 The table below shows the maturity profile for investment contracts on an undiscounted basis to the nearest billion.
This maturity profile has been based on the cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
2007 bn Total After After After After undis- 1 year 1 year to 5 years to 10 years to 15 years to Over counted or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value Life assurance investment contracts 3 12 16 16 15 25 87 2006 bn Total After After After After undis- 1 year 1 year to 5 years to 10 years to 15 years to Over counted or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value Life assurance investment contracts 3 10 14 13 14 27 81 The maturity profile above excludes certain corporate unit-linked business with gross policyholder liabilities of 8 billion which has no stated maturity.
239 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued This table has been prepared on an undiscounted basis and accordingly the amounts shown for life assurance investment contracts differ from those disclosed on the balance sheet.
Durations of long-term business contracts, covering insurance and investment contracts, on a discounted basis are included in section D. Credit risk Of the total loans and receivables held 5 million 2006: 137 million are past their due date but have not been impaired, with 5 million 2006: 20 million relating to continuing operations and nil 2006: 117 million to discontinued banking operations.
Of the total past due but not impaired, 5 million 2006: 122 million are less than one year past their due date and nil 2006: 15 million between two years and three years past their due date.
The Group expects full recovery of these loans and receivables.
Financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated amounted to nil 2006: 19 million.
The fair value of collateral held against loans that are past due and impaired at 31 December 2007 was nil 2006: 1 million.
The fair value of collateral held against loans that are past due but not impaired at 31 December 2007 was nil 2006: 3 million.
Collateral would predominately consist of policy loans that are secured by the cash values of the underlying policy.
Details with regards to loans and advances to customers by discontinued banking operations are provided in note J5.
In addition, during the year the Group took possession of 7 million 2006: 7 million of other collateral held as security, which mainly consists of assets that could be readily convertible into cash.
Group exposure to holdings in sub-prime and Alt-A assets, monoline insurers and CDO funds Included in the total of debt securities of 83,984 million at 31 December 2007 are the following holdings: i Sub-prime and Alt-A securities Shareholder-backed business 2007 m US insurance operations Sub-prime AAA 237 Alt-A 77% AAA, 17% AA 660 Asian operations 15 912 With-profits operations 2007 m UK insurance operations Sub-prime AAA 129 Alt-A 96% AAA 100 Asian operations 7 236 Total 1,148 Further details on Jacksons sub-prime and Alt-A securities are given in section D3 b ii Direct holdings in monoline insurers 2007 m Shareholder-backed operations: US insurance operations 23 Asian operations 4 27 With-profits operations: Asian operations 6 Total 33 240 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial G statements G2: Market risk continued iii Holdings in debt securities with a wrap guarantee from a monoline insurer 2007 m Shareholder-backed operations: US insurance operations Residential mortgage-backed securities: Sub-prime 36 Alt-A 18 Asset-backed securities 79 Private corporate issues 22 155 UK insurance operations 98% held by PRIL 422 577 With-profits operations: Asian insurance operations 9 UK insurance operations 73% held by PAL 1,168 1,177 Total 1,754 The holdings of UK insurance operations are primarily in PFI and utility stocks.
iv CDO funds all without sub-prime exposure Shareholder-backed business 2007 m US insurance operations 65% AAA, 8% AA 260 Asian insurance operations 72% AAA, 28% AA- 62 UK insurance operations PRIL AAA 36 Other operations AAA 19 377 With-profits operations 2007 m UK insurance operations 79% AAA, 8% AA Asian operations AAA 240 UK insurance operations 98% held by PRIL 59 299 Total 676 Including the Groups economic interest in Piedmont as described in section G1 and other consolidated CDO funds.
241 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued Currency risk As at 31 December 2007, the Group held 19 per cent 2006: 16 per cent and 13 per cent 2006: 15 per cent of its financial assets and financial liabilities respectively, in currencies, mainly US dollar and Euro, other than the functional currency of the relevant business unit.
The financial assets, of which 86 per cent 2006: 90 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, allow the PAC with-profits fund to obtain exposure to foreign equity markets.
The financial liabilities, of which 19 per cent 2006: 14 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, mainly relate to foreign currency borrowings.
The exchange risks inherent in these exposures are mitigated through the use of derivatives, mainly forward currency contracts note G3 below.
The amount of exchange gains recognised in the income statement in 2007, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss, is 102 million 2006: 73 million.
This constitutes 109 million 2006: 107 million gains on Medium Term Notes MTN liabilities and 7 million of net losses 2006: 34 million net losses, mainly arising on investments of the PAC with-profits fund.
The gains on MTN liabilities are fully offset by value movements on cross-currency swaps, which are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
See also note J3 for details of the market risks faced by the discontinued banking operations.
G3: Derivatives and hedging Derivatives The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit default swaps.
All over-the-counter derivative transactions are conducted under standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements.
The total fair value balances of derivative assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007 were as follows: 2007 m UK Other Total insurance US continuing continuing operations operations operations operations Derivative assets 571 390 136 1,097 Derivative liabilities 689 158 233 1,080 118 232 97 17 2006 m UK Other Total Discontinued insurance US continuing continuing banking operations operations operations operations operations Total Derivative assets 476 254 90 820 78 898 Derivative liabilities 268 92 149 509 154 663 208 162 59 311 76 235 The above derivative assets and derivative liabilities are included in other investments and other liabilities in the primary statements.
242 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial G statements G3: Derivatives and hedging continued The notional amount of the derivatives, distinguishing between UK insurance, US, discontinued banking and other operations was as follows: 2007 m UK insurance operations US Notional amount on which Notional amount on which future payments are based future payments are based As at 31 December 2007 Asset Liability Asset Liability Cross-currency swaps 658 648 602 Equity index call options 23 Swaptions 1,125 25,620 1,005 Futures 1,905 2,176 371 Forwards 17,243 17,635 Inflation swaps 1,758 1,319 Credit default swaps 4,181 59 Single stock options Credit derivatives 3 20 Put options 3,642 Equity options 5,545 11 FTSE swap Total return swaps 956 955 226 Interest rate swaps 4,335 4,663 1,708 3,587 2006 m UK insurance operations US Discontinued banking operations Notional amount on which Notional amount on which Notional amount on which future payments are based future payments are based future payments are based As at 31 December 2006 Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Cross-currency swaps 579 499 537 26 348 360 Equity index call options 583 12 Swaptions 1,125 13,540 11,751 Futures 2,306 2,463 274 Forwards 12,614 12,465 383 376 Inflation swaps 1,109 1,109 Credit default swaps 1,787 Single stock options 6 Credit derivatives 18 Put options 2,708 FTSE swap 49 49 Total return swaps 895 833 230 65 Interest rate swaps 2,976 3,388 2,407 1,988 3,117 3,117 In addition, the other operations, including the Group Treasury function and the Asian operations, have cross-currency swap assets and liabilities with notional amounts of 730 million 2006: 754 million and 1,401 million 2006: 1,743 million respectively, forward currency contracts assets and liabilities with notional amounts of 983 million 2006: 443 million and 773 million 2006: 63 million respectively, interest rate swaps of 2,799 million 2006: 1,856 million and inflation swap liabilities with notional amounts of 150 million 2006: 150 million.
These derivatives are used for efficient portfolio management to obtain cost effective and efficient exposure to various markets in accordance with the Groups investment strategies and to manage exposure to interest rate, currency, credit and other business risks.
See also note D3 for use of derivatives by the Groups US operations.
The Group uses various interest rate derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility.
The UK insurance operations use various currency derivatives in order to limit volatility due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations arising on securities denominated in currencies other than sterling.
In addition, total return swaps and interest rate swaps are held for efficient portfolio management.
243 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G3: Derivatives and hedging continued As part of the efficient portfolio management of the PAC with-profits fund, the fund may, from time to time, invest in cash-settled forward contracts over Prudential plc shares, which are accounted for consistently with other derivatives.
This is in order to avoid a mismatch of the with-profits investment portfolio with the investment benchmarks set for its equity-based investment funds.
The contracts will form part of the long-term investments of the with-profits fund.
These contracts are subject to a number of limitations for legal and regulatory reasons.
Some of the Groups products, especially those sold in the US, have certain guarantee features linked to equity indexes.
A mismatch between product liabilities and the performance of the underlying assets backing them, exposes the Group to equity index risk.
In order to mitigate this risk, the relevant business units purchase swaptions, equity options and futures to match asset performance with liabilities under equity-indexed products.
The US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest-rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These entities have purchased some swaptions in order to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets.
During the period of ownership in 2007 and in 2006, Egg used derivative instruments for the purpose of supporting the strategic and operational business activities and reducing and eliminating the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives were used solely to hedge risk exposures and Egg did not take any trading position in derivatives.
For the purpose of reducing interest rate risk, Egg used a number of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward agreements.
Additionally, swaps were used to provide caps to the funding cost of the credit card product.
Egg also made general use of credit default swaps to manage credit risk without changing the underlying product or investment portfolios.
For the purpose of reducing currency risk, Egg used forward exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Hedging The Group has formally assessed and documented the effectiveness of the following hedges under IAS 39: Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate derivatives to hedge the interest exposures on its US$1 billion, 6.5 per cent perpetual subordinated capital securities and US$300 million, 6.5 per cent perpetual subordinated capital securities.
Where the hedge relationship is fide-designated and re-designated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item up to the point of fide-designation continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item and is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to the first break clause date of the perpetual subordinated capital securities.
In addition, Jackson has had a collar fair value hedge in place since 1 March 2005.
This common stock equity collar transaction was entered into to protect Jacksons unrealised gain of US$5.9 million on an equity investment.
The hedge expires in March 2008.
The fair value of the derivatives designated as fair value hedges above at 31 December 2007, were an asset of 5 million and liabilities of 25 million 2006: asset of 5 million and liabilities of 29 million.
Movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments of a net gain of 6 million 2006: net gain of 4 million and the hedged items of a net loss of 4 million 2006: net loss of 4 million are recorded in the income statement in respect of the fair value hedges above.
Cash flow hedges Following the sale of Egg in 2007, the Group has no cash flow hedges in place.
In 2006 Egg had cash flow hedged certain balance sheet items which were subject to interest rate risk using interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps, with the effective part of any gain or loss on the swaps recognised directly in equity.
As at 31 December 2006, the notional amount of the cash flow hedge was 1,711 million and the fair value was an asset of 9 million.
The cash flows were periodically updated based on the underlying banking portfolios.
There was no ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge recognised in the income statement in 2006.
Net investment hedges The Group has entered into a series of three-month period forward currency transactions which together form a US$2 billion net investment hedge of the currency exposure of the net investments in the US operations.
The forward currency contracts were renewed throughout 2007 and 2006.
The forward currency contracts in place at 31 December 2007 expire in March 2008.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at 31 December 2007 was a liability of 44 million 2006: a liability of 4 million.
In addition, the Group has designated perpetual subordinated capital securities totalling US$1.55 billion as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The carrying value of the subordinated capital securities was 763 million 2006: 763 million as at 31 December 2007.
The foreign exchange gain of 13 million 2006: gain of 110 million on translation of the borrowings to pounds sterling at the balance sheet date is recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity.
The net investment hedges were 100 per cent effective.
244 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial G statements G4: Derecognition, securitisation and collateral Securities lending and reverse repurchase agreements The Group has entered into securities lending including repurchase agreements whereby blocks of securities are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms.
The amounts above the fair value of the loaned securities required to be held as collateral by the agreements depend on the quality of the collateral, calculated on a daily basis.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated balance sheet, rather they are retained within the appropriate investment classification.
Collateral typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities and letters of credit.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had lent 17,172 million 2006: 11,418 million of which 11,461 million 2006: 7,592 million was lent by the PAC with-profits fund of securities and held collateral under such agreements of 18,125 million 2006: 11,814 million of which 12,105 million 2006: 7,934 million was held by the PAC with-profits fund.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had entered into reverse repurchase transactions under which it purchased securities and had taken on the obligation to resell the securities for the purchase price of 1,361 million 2006: 1,435 million, together with accrued interest.
Collateral and pledges under derivative transactions At 31 December 2007, the Group had pledged 260 million 2006: 263 million for liabilities and held collateral of 292 million 2006: 212 million in respect of over-the-counter derivative transactions.
Securitisation At 31 December 2006 Egg had an outstanding balance of UK credit card receivables in its trust vehicle, Arch Term Limited, created in 2002 for the purpose of asset-backed securitisation, of 2.8 billion.
The note holders in securitisations from this vehicle had a proportional interest in each account balance in the trust.
As at 31 December 2006, the value of this interest was 2.3 billion.
This securitisation did not qualify for derecognition under IAS 39 and the total portfolio was, therefore, included in loans and receivables.
The funding giving rise to the note-holders interest was included within operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations.
Following the disposal of Egg the Group no longer holds these balances.
G5: Impairment of financial assets In accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note A4, impairment reviews were performed for available-for-sale securities and loans and receivables.
In addition, impairment reviews were undertaken for the reinsurers share of policyholder liability provisions.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, impairment losses of 184 million 2006: 416 million were recognised.
These were 149 million 2006: 384 million for loans and advances to customers in discontinued banking operations and 35 million 2006: 32 million for continuing operations, mainly being in respect of available-for-sale securities held by Jackson.
Impairment losses recognised on available-for-sale securities amounted to 30 million 2006: 24 million.
Of this amount, 14 per cent 2006: 76 per cent has been recorded on structured asset-backed securities, primarily due to reduced cash flow expectations on such securities that are collateralised by diversified pools of primarily below investment grade securities.
57 per cent 2006: 24 per cent of the losses related to the impairment of fixed maturity securities of the top five individual corporate issuers, reflecting a deteriorating business outlook of the companies concerned.
The impairment losses have been recorded in acquisition costs and other operating expenditure in the income statement.
In 2007, the Group realised gross losses on sales of available-for-sale securities of 86 million 2006: 58 million.
46 per cent 2006: 30 per cent of these losses related to the disposal of fixed maturity securities of six 2006: six individual issuers, which were disposed of to rebalance the portfolio in the US operations in response to the unstable mortgage lending market in the US.
The effect of those reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying the estimates that underpin the assessment of whether impairment has taken place depends on the factors described in note A3.
A key indicator of whether such impairment may arise in future, and the potential amounts at risk, is the profile of gross unrealised losses for fixed maturity and equity securities accounted for on an available-for-sale basis by reference to the time periods by which the securities have been held continuously in an unrealised loss position and by reference to the maturity date of the securities concerned.
For 2007, the difference between the carrying value and book cost of equity securities in gross unrealised loss position was nil 2006: 1 million.
For 2007 the amounts of gross unrealised losses for fixed maturity securities classified as available-forsale under IFRS in an unrealised loss position was 439 million 2006: 256 million see note D3 for further details.
245 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders a Goodwill 2007 m 2006 m Cost At 1 January and 31 December 1,461 1,461 Aggregate impairment At 1 January and 31 December 120 120 Net book amount at 31 December 1,341 1,341 Impairment testing Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other groups of assets and thus is assigned to cash generating units CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
These CGUs are based upon how management monitors the business and represent the lowest level to which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
An allocation to CGUs of the Groups goodwill attributable to shareholders is shown below: 2007 m 2006 m M&G 1,153 1,153 Other 188 188 1,341 1,341 Other represents goodwill amounts allocated across CGUs in Asia and US operations.
These goodwill amounts are not individually material.
Assessment of whether goodwill may be impaired With the exception of M&G, the goodwill attributable to shareholders in the balance sheet relates to acquired life businesses.
The Company routinely compares the aggregate of net asset value and acquired goodwill on an IFRS basis of acquired life business with the value of the business as determined using the EEV methodology, as described in note D1.
Any excess of IFRS over EEV carrying value is then compared with EEV basis value of current and projected future new business to determine whether there is any indication that the goodwill in the IFRS balance sheet may be impaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the CGUs carrying amount, excluding any goodwill, with its recoverable amount.
M&G The recoverable amount for the M&G CGU has been determined by calculating its value in use.
This has been calculated by aggregating the present value of future cash flows expected to be derived from the component businesses of M&G based upon management projections and its current surplus capital.
The discounted cash flow valuation has been based on a three-year plan prepared by M&G, and approved by the directors of Prudential plc, and cash flow projections for later years.
The value in use is particularly sensitive to a number of key assumptions as follows: i The assumed growth rate on forecast cash flows beyond the terminal year of the budget.
A growth rate of 2.5 per cent has been used to extrapolate beyond the plan period.
ii The risk discount rate.
Differing discount rates have been applied in accordance with the nature of the individual component businesses.
For retail and institutional business a risk discount rate of 12 per cent has been applied.
This represents an average implied discount rate for comparable UK listed asset managers calculated by reference to risk-free rates, equity risk premiums of five per cent and an average beta factor for relative market risk of comparable UK listed asset managers.
A similar approach has been applied for the other component businesses of M&G.
iii That asset management contracts continue on similar terms.
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of M&G to exceed its recoverable amount.
246 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders continued Japanese life company The aggregate goodwill impairment of 120 million at 31 December 2007 and 2006 relates to the goodwill held in relation to the Japanese life operation which was impaired in 2005. b Deferred acquisition costs and acquired in-force value of long-term business contracts attributable to shareholders Other intangible assets in the Group consolidated balance sheet attributable to shareholders consist of: 2007 m 2006 m Deferred acquisition costs DAC related to insurance contracts as classified under IFRS 4 2,644 2,315 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classified as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 113 110 2,757 2,425 Present value of acquired in-force policies for insurance contracts as classified under IFRS 4 59 66 Present value of future profits of acquired investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classified as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 4 6 Distribution rights 16 79 72 Total of deferred acquisition costs and acquired in-force value of long-term business contracts 2,836 2,497 Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in 2007 of 16 million which are amortised over 8 years.
The amortisation charge for the year to 31 December 2007 was 0.3 million.
Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Deferred acquisition costs at 1 January 2,315 2,200 Additions 694 623 Amortisation 410 299 Exchange differences 44 290 Change in shadow DAC 89 81 Deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2,644 2,315 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts attributable to shareholders Incremental costs associated with the origination of investment management contracts written by the Groups insurance and asset management businesses are capitalised and amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts are all internally generated.
Amortisation of this intangible asset is included in the acquisition costs and other operating expenditure line in the income statement.
2007 m 2006 m At 1 January Gross amount 130 118 Accumulated amortisation 20 14 Net book amount 110 104 Additions through internal development 7 36 Amortisation 3 6 Other charges 1 24 At 31 December 113 110 Comprising: Gross amount 136 130 Accumulated amortisation 23 20 Net book amount 113 110 247 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders continued Present value of acquired in-force business of long-term business contracts attributable to shareholders Prior to the adoption of IFRS 4, the present value of acquired in-force business PVAIF was accounted for under UK GAAP.
On 1 January 2005, following the adoption of IFRS 4, PVAIF relating to investment contracts without discretionary participation features, which was previously included within long-term business, is removed and replaced by an asset representing the present value of the future profits of the asset management component of these contracts, where applicable.
These contracts are accounted for under the provisions of IAS 18.
The remainder of the PVAIF balance relates to insurance contracts and is accounted for under UK GAAP as permitted by IFRS 4.
The present value of future profits of acquired asset management contracts relates to unit-linked contracts acquired as part of the M&G acquisition in 1999.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other operating expenditure line in the income statement over the period of provision of asset management services as those profits emerge.
2007 m 2006 m Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contracts management contracts management At 1 January Cost 220 12 233 12 Accumulated amortisation 154 6 141 3 Net book amount 66 6 92 9 Exchange differences 2 4 Amortisation charge 9 2 22 3 At 31 December 59 4 66 6 Comprising Cost 161 12 220 12 Accumulated amortisation 102 8 154 6 Net book amount 59 4 66 6 H2: Intangible assets attributable to the PAC with-profits fund a Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets in respect of acquired investment subsidiaries 2007 m Other acquired intangible Goodwill assets Total Carrying value at 1 January 2007 587 243 830 Additions 313 313 Amortisation charge 35 35 Deconsolidated venture fund investments 708 208 916 At 31 December 2007 192 192 All goodwill figures shown above reflect the cost.
These have no impairment losses or other write-offs.
All goodwill additions relate to the UK and the long-term business segments.
Following the sale by the Group of PPM Capital in November 2007, the Group no longer controls venture fund investments and consequently has ceased to consolidate these operations, with these carried as investments of long-term business at fair value through profit and loss going forwards.
Additional details on the changes in consolidated entities are provided in note I6.
The recoverable amount for the venture fund investments previously controlled by the Group through PPM Capital was determined on a portfolio CGU basis by aggregating fair values calculated for each entity less costs to sell these entities.
248 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H2: Intangible assets attributable to the PAC with-profits fund continued The fair value of each entity prior to deconsolidation following the disposal of PPM Capital was calculated in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines which set out industry best practice for determining the fair value of private equity investments.
The guidelines require that an enterprise value is calculated for each investment, typically using an appropriate multiple applied to the companys maintainable earnings.
All amounts relating to financial instruments ranking higher in a liquidation than those controlled by the Group prior to the disposal of PPM Capital were then deducted from the enterprise value and a marketability discount applied to the result to give a fair value attributable to the instruments previously controlled by the Group.
The marketability discount ranged from 10 per cent to 30 per cent, depending on the Groups level of control over a realisation process.
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not have given rise to an impairment charge.
b Deferred acquisition costs 2007 m 2006 m At 1 January 31 35 Additions 1 2 Amortisation 13 6 At 31 December 19 31 The above costs relate to non-participating business written by the PAC with-profits sub-fund.
No deferred acquisition costs are established for the participating business.
H3: Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2007 m 2006 m Insurance contract liabilities 724 878 Claims outstanding 59 67 783 945 The movement on reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m At 1 January 878 1,203 Movement in the year 147 265 Foreign exchange translation differences 7 60 At 31 December 724 878 H4: Tax assets and liabilities Assets Of the 285 million 2006: 404 million current tax recoverable, the majority is expected to be recovered in one year or less.
Deferred tax asset 2007 m 2006 m Unrealised losses on investments 129 83 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 2 439 Short-term timing differences 744 446 Capital allowances 20 12 Unused deferred tax losses 30 Continuing operations 925 980 Discontinued banking operations 32 Total 925 1,012 249 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H4: Tax assets and liabilities continued Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a trading or capital nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Accordingly, for the 2007 results and balance sheet position at 31 December 2007, the possible tax benefit of approximately 280 million 2006: 333 million, which may arise from capital losses valued at approximately 1.4 billion 2006: 1.7 billion, is sufficiently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
In addition, a potential deferred tax asset of 112 million 2006: 71 million, which may arise from trading losses of approximately 350 million 2006: 245 million, is sufficiently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
Liabilities Of the 1,237 million 2006: 1,303 million current tax liability, it is not practicable to estimate how much is expected to be settled in one year or less due to the uncertainty over when outstanding issues will be agreed with HM Revenue & Customs.
Deferred tax liability 2007 m 2006 m Unrealised gains on investments 2,098 2,346 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 599 613 Short-term timing differences 766 916 Capital allowances 12 7 3,475 3,882 Unprovided deferred income tax liabilities on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures are considered to be insignificant due to the availability of various UK tax exemptions and reliefs.
Discounting Deferred tax asset and liability balances have not been discounted.
250 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H5: Accrued investment income and other debtors 2007 m 2006 m Accrued investment income Interest receivable 1,434 1,331 Other 589 563 Continuing operations 2,023 1,894 Discontinued banking operations 6 Total 2,023 1,900 Other debtors I1 Surplus in respect of PSPS defined benefit pension schemes: Surplus, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 365 Attributable to shareholder-financed operations i. e. to shareholders equity 163 528 Less investments in Prudential insurance policies 140 Net surplus after elimination of investments in Prudential insurance policies and matching policyholder liability from Group balance sheet 388 Premiums receivable: From policyholders 154 200 From intermediaries 13 12 From reinsurers 104 22 Other 638 619 Continuing operations 1,297 853 Discontinued banking operations 199 Total 1,297 1,052 Total accrued investment income and other debtors 3,320 2,952 The 2007 pension surplus amounts relate to the PSPS defined benefit scheme.
The 2006 amounts are included in H14 Provisions note.
Of the 3,320 million 2006: 2,952 million of accrued investment income and other debtors, 452 million 2006: 800 million is expected to be settled after one year or more.
251 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H6: Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise Group occupied properties, development property and tangible assets.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of these items from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Group occupied Development Tangible Continuing Discontinued property property assets operations operations Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 Cost 262 175 853 1,290 246 1,536 Accumulated depreciation 36 433 469 157 626 Net book amount 226 175 420 821 89 910 Year ended 31 December 2006 Opening net book amount 226 175 420 821 89 910 Exchange differences 8 8 16 16 Depreciation charge 6 96 102 43 145 Additions 4 36 123 163 11 174 Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 40 40 40 Disposals 24 80 104 6 98 Reclassification from held for investment 268 268 268 Closing net book amount 192 479 399 1,070 63 1,133 At 1 January 2007 Cost 225 479 917 1,621 226 1,847 Accumulated depreciation 33 518 551 163 714 Net book amount 192 479 399 1,070 63 1,133 Year ended 31 December 2007 Opening net book amount 192 479 399 1,070 63 1,133 Exchange differences 2133 Depreciation charge 48 50 98 9 107 Additions 71 48 109 228 3 231 Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 5 33 38 38 Disposal of subsidiaries 57 57 I6 Deconsolidated venture fund investments 69 261 330 330 Disposals 2 25 27 27 Reclassification from held for investment 120 120 120 Reclassification from held for sale 888 Closing net book amount 151 655 206 1,012 1,012 At 31 December 2007 Cost 172 655 612 1,439 1,439 Accumulated depreciation 21 406 427 427 Net book amount 151 655 206 1,012 1,012 Of the above net book amounts, nil 2006: 102 million of Group occupied property and nil 2006: 261 million of tangible assets are attributable to consolidated venture investment subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund at 31 December 2007.
All additions arising on acquisition of subsidiaries relate to acquisitions of venture investment subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund.
252 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H6: Property, plant and equipment continued Capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment by primary segment 2007 m 2006 m Long-term business 206 153 Asset management 11 6 Unallocated corporate 11 3 Continuing operations 228 162 Discontinued banking operations 3 12 Total 231 174 Capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment by secondary segment 2007 m 2006 m UK 145 122 US 33 15 Asia 50 25 Continuing operations 228 162 Discontinued banking operations 3 12 Total 231 174 H7: Investment properties Investment properties principally relate to the PAC with-profits fund and are carried at fair value.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment properties at the beginning and end of the year is set out below: 2007 m 2006 m At 1 January 14,491 13,180 Additions: Resulting from acquisitions 1,707 1,185 Resulting from expenditure capitalised 128 51 Resulting from acquisitions through business combinations 2 Disposals 1,378 398 Net loss gains from fair value adjustments 1,128 813 Net foreign exchange differences 14 42 Transfers to held for sale assets 25 32 Transfers to development properties 121 268 At 31 December 13,688 14,491 The income statement includes the following items in respect of investment properties: 2007 m 2006 m Rental income from investment properties 670 744 Direct operating expenses including repairs and maintenance expenses arising from investment properties: That generated rental income during the year 117 118 That did not generate rental income during the year 8 Total direct operating expenses 117 126 253 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H7: Investment properties continued Investment properties of 3,665 million 2006: 4,990 million are held under finance leases.
A reconciliation between the total of future minimum lease payments at the balance sheet date, and their present value is shown below: 2007 m 2006 m Future minimum lease payments at 31 December 979 400 Future finance charges on finance leases 877 325 Present value of minimum lease payments 102 75 Future minimum lease payments are due as follows: Less than 1 year 5 4 1 to 5 years 22 15 Over 5 years 952 381 Total 979 400 The present values of these minimum lease payments are: Less than 1 year 5 3 1 to 5 years 22 15 Over 5 years 75 57 Total 102 75 Contingent rent is that portion of the lease payments that is not fixed in amount but is based on the future value of a factor that changes other than with the passage of time.
Contingent rent recognised as an expense in 2007 amounted to 14 million 2006: 11 million.
Contingent rents recognised as income in the year amounted to 26 million 2006: 33 million.
The Groups policy is to rent investment properties to tenants through operating leases.
Minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases are receivable in the following periods: 2007 m 2006 m Less than 1 year 679 658 1 to 5 years 2,464 2,382 Over 5 years 8,266 6,135 Total 11,409 9,175 The total minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable sub-leases for land and buildings for the year ended 31 December 2007 are 2,746 million 2006: 2,651 million.
254 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H8: Investments in associates and joint ventures Investments in associates The Group had four associates at 31 December 2007 2006: three that are accounted for using the equity method.
The Group acquired one new associate in 2007, a 30 per cent interest in The Nam Khang, a Vietnamese property developer.
The Groups other associates, a 30 per cent interest in Apollo Education and Training Organisation Vietnam, a 25 per cent interest in OYO Developments Limited, and a 38.6 per cent interest in IFonline Group Limited IFonline, were held by the Group in both 2007 and 2006.
The Group also has investments in associates which meet the IAS 28 criteria for measurement at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Associates accounted for using the equity method Equity accounting is applied to IFonline based on its reporting period of the year to 30 November and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the information is deemed to cover the same period as that of the Group.
A summary of the movements in investments in associates accounted for using the equity method in 2007 and 2006 is set out below: Share of Share of Share of Total carrying capital reserves net assets Goodwill value m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2006 4 6 2 7 5 Share of profit for the year after tax 1 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2006 4 5 1 7 6 Acquisitions 5 5 1 6 Share of profit for the year after tax Balance at 31 December 2007 9 5 4 8 12 There have been no changes recognised directly in the equity of associates that would also be recognised directly in equity by the Group.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and profit and loss of associates accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2007 and 2006 is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Financial position Total assets excluding goodwill 7 4 Total liabilities 3 5 Net assets 4 1 Results of operations Revenue 5 3 Profit in the year 1 Associates carried at fair value through profit and loss The Groups associates that are carried at fair value through profit and loss comprise investments in OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts, and venture capital investments of the PAC with-profits fund managed by PPM Capital, where the Group has significant influence.
These investments are incorporated both in the UK and overseas, and some have year ends which are non-coterminous with that of the Group.
In these instances, the investments are recorded at fair value at 31 December 2007 based on valuations or pricing information at that specific date.
The aggregate fair value of associates carried at fair value through profit and loss where there are published price quotations is approximately 2 billion 2006: 2 billion at 31 December 2007.
The aggregate assets of these associates are approximately 9 billion 2006: 7 billion.
Aggregate liabilities, excluding liabilities to unit holders and shareholders for unit trusts and OEICs, are approximately 2 billion 2006: 3 billion.
Fund revenues, with revenue arising in unit trusts and OEICs deemed to constitute the investment return for these vehicles, were approximately 0.5 billion 2006: 0.4 billion and net profit in the year, excluding unit trusts and OEICs where all investment returns accrue to unit holders or shareholders respectively, was approximately 0.2 billion 2006: 0.2 billion.
255 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H8: Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Investments in joint ventures Joint ventures represent activities over which the Group exercises joint control through contractual agreement with one or more parties.
The Groups significant joint ventures, which are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, comprise various joint ventures relating to property investments where the Group has a 50 per cent interest as well as the following interests: Investment % held Principal activity Country ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 26 Life assurance India BOCI Prudential Asset Management Limited 36 Pensions China PruHealth 50 Private medical insurance UK CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 50 Life assurance China CITIC Prudential Fund Management Company Limited 49 Asset management China Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited 49 Asset management India Prudential BSN Takaful Berhad 49 General and life insurance Malaysia In August 2007, the Group increased its stake in CITIC Prudential Fund Management Company Limited from 33 per cent to 49 per cent.
On 29 September 2007, following expiry of the previous management agreement, a revised arrangement was put in place in respect of CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited following which the Groups investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Prior to the change in management agreement CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited was accounted for as a subsidiary undertaking.
Whilst the management agreement has been revised there has been no change in the Groups level of holding.
Prudential BSN Takaful Berhad was a new joint venture in 2006.
In January 2006, the Group sold its 50 per cent interest in Marlborough Stirling Mortgage Services Limited for 2.9 million.
The profit on sale before tax of 1.7 million was included in investment income in the consolidated income statement.
The investments noted in the table above have the same accounting year end as the Group, except for Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited.
Although this investment has a reporting period of 31 March, 12 months of financial information up to 31 December is recorded.
The summarised financial data for the Groups share of investments in joint ventures is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Financial position Current assets 1,277 91 Non-current assets 173 638 Total assets 1,450 729 Current liabilities 115 47 Non-current liabilities 1,121 467 Total liabilities 1,236 514 Net equity 214 215 Results of operations Revenues 500 265 Expenses 546 273 Net loss 46 8 There are several minor service agreements in place between the joint ventures and the Group.
During 2007, the aggregate amount of the transactions was 5.4 million and the balance outstanding as at 31 December 2007 was 4.7 million.
During 2006, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited invested its own capital of 1.4 million into the joint venture to fund the operational needs of the business.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed nor does the Group have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
256 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H9: Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets and liabilities held for sale comprise investment property and consolidated venture subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund.
Investment properties are classified as held for sale when contracts have been exchanged but the sale has not been completed at the period end.
As at 31 December 2006, one venture subsidiary, Pharmacia Diagnostics, was classified as held for sale.
The disposal of this subsidiary was completed on 18 January 2007.
Gains on disposal of held for sale assets and liabilities are recorded in investment income within the income statement.
Major classes of assets and liabilities held for sale are as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Assets Goodwill 138 Intangible assets 112 Property, plant and equipment 48 Other assets 105 Investment properties 30 60 Non-current assets held for sale 30 463 Liabilities Other liabilities 64 Borrowings 323 Non-current liabilities held for sale 387 H10: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, balances with banks, and certain short-term deposits and debt instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following balance sheet amounts: 2007 m 2006 m Cash 4,528 3,902 Cash equivalents 423 260 Continuing operations 4,951 4,162 Discontinued banking operations 909 Total cash and cash equivalents 4,951 5,071 Cash and cash equivalents held in the parent company and finance subsidiaries are considered to be available for use by the Group.
These funds amount to 339 million and 437 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The remaining amounts, generally not available for use by the Group, include cash and cash equivalents held for the benefit of policyholders and, in 2006, loans and advances to banks held by Egg.
H11: Shareholders equity: Share capital, share premium and reserves The authorised share capital of the Company is 220 million 2006: 220 million divided into 4,000,000,000 2006: 4,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each and 2,000,000,000 sterling preference shares of 1 pence each and US$20 million divided into 2,000,000,000 US dollar preference shares of 1 cent each and Euros 20 million divided into 2,000,000,000 Euro preference shares of 1 cent each.
None of the preference shares have been issued.
A summary of the ordinary shares in issue is set out below: 2007 m 2006 m Share capital and share premium Ordinary share capital: 2,470 million 2006: 2,444 million Shares issued 123 122 Share premium 1,828 1,822 Reserves Retained earnings 4,440 3,640 Translation reserve 112 125 Available-for-sale and hedging reserves 78 29 Total shareholders equity 6,201 5,488 257 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H11: Shareholders equity: share capital, share premium and reserves continued Share capital and share premium 2006 Share Share Number of capital premium ordinary shares m m Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At the beginning of the year 2,386,784,266 119 1,564 Shares issued under share option schemes 2,953,552 15 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 12,940,993 1 75 Shares issued in respect of acquisition of Egg minority interests 41,633,614 2 243 Transfer to retained earnings in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 75 At end of the year 2,444,312,425 122 1,822 2007 Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At the beginning of the year 2,444,312,425 122 1,822 Shares issued under share option schemes 803,818 6 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 24,900,997 1 175 Transfer to retained earnings in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 175 At end of the year 2,470,017,240 123 1,828 Amounts recorded in share capital represent the nominal value of the shares issued.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares, net of issue costs, and the nominal value of shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
At 31 December 2007, there were options outstanding under Save As You Earn schemes to subscribe for 9,017,442 2006: 10,722,274 shares at prices ranging from 266 pence to 695 pence 2006: 266 pence to 715 pence and exercisable by the year 2014 2013.
In addition, there are 2,037,220 2006: 4,113,481 conditional options outstanding under the RSP and 3,485,617 2006: 1,623,637 under the GPSP exercisable at nil cost within a 10-year period.
The cost of own shares of 60 million as at 31 December 2007 2006: 79 million is deducted from retained earnings.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
At 31 December 2007, 6.6 million 2006: 7.5 million Prudential plc shares with a market value of 47 million 2006: 52 million were held in such trusts.
In 2007, the Company purchased 1.2 million 2006: 2.3 million shares in respect of employee incentive plans at a cost of 9 million 2006: 15 million.
The maximum number of shares held in the year was 8.5 million which was at the beginning of the year.
Of this total, 5.1 million 2006: 4.8 million shares were held in trusts under employee incentive plans.
Of the total shares held in trust, 1.5 million 2006: 2.7 million shares were held by a qualifying employee share ownership trust.
These shares are expected to be fully distributed in the future on maturity of savings-related share option schemes at a weighted average exercise price of 274 pence 2006: 303 pence.
The Group has consolidated a number of authorised investment funds where it is deemed to control these funds under IFRS.
Certain of these funds hold shares in Prudential plc.
The total number of shares held by these funds at 31 December 2007 was 4.1 million 2006: 4.9 million and the cost of acquiring these shares of 22 million 2006: 26 million is included in cost of own shares.
The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2007 was 29 million 2006: 34 million.
Reserves The translation reserve represents cumulative foreign exchange translation differences taken directly to equity in accordance with IFRS, net of related tax.
In accordance with IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The hedging reserve consists of the portion of the cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of related tax.
The available-for-sale reserve includes gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of available-for-sale securities, net of related tax.
258 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H12: Insurance contract liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds Movement in year Insurance Unallocated contract surplus of withliabilities profits funds m m At 1 January 2006 120,436 11,330 Income and expense included in the income statement 7,811 2,296 Foreign exchange translation differences 5,034 27 At 31 December 2006 123,213 13,599 At 1 January 2007 123,213 13,599 Income and expense included in the income statement 9,590 760 Foreign exchange translation differences 167 8 At 31 December 2007 132,636 14,351 H13: Borrowings Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2007 m 2006 m Innovative Lower Tier 1 Tier 2 Senior Total Total Central companies Subordinated debt: note i 500m 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2021 365 365 335 note ii 20m Medium-Term Subordinated Notes 2023 15 15 13 435m 6.125% Subordinated Notes 2031 427 427 427 US$1,000m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated note iii Capital Securities 485 485 484 US$250m 6.75% Perpetual Subordinated note iv Capital Securities 124 124 125 US$300m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated notes iv, v Capital Securities 154 154 154 763 807 1,570 1,538 Senior debt: 150m 9.375% Guaranteed Bonds 2007 150 249m 5.5% Bonds 2009 248 248 248 300m 6.875% Bonds 2023 300 300 300 250m 5.875% Bonds 2029 249 249 249 797 797 947 Total central companies 763 807 797 2,367 2,485 US operations note vi US$250m 8.15% Surplus Notes 2027 125 125 127 Total continuing operations 763 932 797 2,492 2,612 Discontinued banking operations 250m 7.5% Subordinated Notes 2013 250 200m 6.875% Subordinated Notes 2021 201 451 note vii Total 763 932 797 2,492 3,063 These debt classifications are consistent with the treatment of capital for regulatory purposes, as defined in the FSA Handbook.
The senior debt ranks above subordinated debt in the event of liquidation.
259 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H13: Borrowings continued Notes i The 500 million 5.75 per cent borrowings have been swapped into borrowings of 333 million with interest payable at six month Libor plus 0.962 per cent.
ii The 20 million Medium-Term Subordinated Notes were issued at 20-year Euro Constant Maturity Swap capped at 6.5 per cent.
These have been swapped into borrowings of 14 million with interest payable at three month Libor plus 1.2 per cent.
iii Interest on the US$1,000 million 6.5 per cent borrowings was swapped into floating rate payments at three month US$Libor plus 0.80 per cent.
In January 2008, this was swapped back into fixed rate payments at 6.5 per cent.
iv The US$250 million 6.75 per cent borrowings and the US$300 million 6.5 per cent borrowings can be converted, in whole or in part, at the Companys option and subject to certain conditions, on any interest payment date falling on or after 23 March 2010 and 23 March 2011 respectively, into one or more series of Prudential preference shares.
v Interest on the US$300 million 6.5 per cent borrowings was swapped into floating rate payments at three month US$Libor plus 0.0225 per cent.
vi The Surplus Notes are unsecured and subordinated to all present and future indebtedness, policy claims and other creditor claims of the US operations.
vii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the maturity analysis of the Groups core structural borrowings: 2007 2006 m m Less than 1 year 150 1 to 2 years 248 2 to 3 years 248 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years Over 5 years 2,244 2,665 Total 2,492 3,063 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2007 m 2006 m Borrowings in respect of short-term fixed income securities programmes Commercial paper 2,422 2,017 Floating Rate Notes 2007 5 Medium-Term Notes 2008 48 Medium-Term Notes 2010 7 10 2,477 2,032 note i Non-recourse borrowings of US operations note ii Jackson 126 note iii Investment subsidiaries 9 76 note iv Piedmont and CDO funds 456 667 591 743 Other borrowings Bank loans and overdrafts 6 9 Obligations under finance leases 7 6 13 15 Total continuing operations 3,081 2,790 note v Discontinued banking operations 2,819 note vi Total 3,081 5,609 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
ii This represents senior debt issued through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and is secured on collateral posted with FHLB by Jackson.
The interest rate on this debt is variable based on a market rate and was 4.45 per cent at 31 December 2007. iii In 2006, this constituted senior and subordinated notes and mortgage loans.
During 2007, the notes were repaid.
iv Piedmont is an investment trust investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
These borrowings pertain to debt instruments issued to external parties.
v The borrowings in respect of banking operations comprise deposits by banks of nil 2006: 2,220 million and unsubordinated debt securities issued by Egg of nil 2006: 599 million.
The deposits by banks mainly relate to securitisation of credit card receivables.
260 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H13: Borrowings continued Notes continued vi Maturity analysis The following table sets out the maturity analysis of the Groups operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations: 2007 2006 m m Less than 1 year 2,618 3,135 1 to 2 years 533 2 to 3 years 7 946 3 to 4 years 44 266 4 to 5 years 48 Over 5 years 412 681 Total 3,081 5,609 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 2007 m 2006 m note i Non-recourse borrowings of venture fund investment subsidiaries 926 note i Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated investment funds 789 681 note ii 100m 8.5% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc 100 100 Other borrowings predominantly obligations under finance leases 98 69 note iii Total 987 1,776 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
ii The interests of the holders of the bonds issued by Scottish Amicable Finance plc, a subsidiary of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund, are subordinate to the entitlements of the policyholders of that fund.
iii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings attributable to with-profits funds: 2007 2006 m m Less than 1 year 103 33 1 to 2 years 16 12 2 to 3 years 62 3 to 4 years 319 4 to 5 years 154 Over 5 years 652 1,412 Total 987 1,776 261 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies Provisions 2007 m 2006 m I1 Provision in respect of defined benefit pension schemes: Surplus deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 27 73 Attributable to shareholder-financed operations i. e. to shareholders equity 54 8 81 65 Add back: Investments in Prudential insurance policies 172 287 Provision after elimination of investments in Prudential insurance policies and matching policyholder liability from Group balance sheet 253 222 Other provisions see below 220 238 Continuing operations 473 460 Discontinued banking operations 4 Total provisions 473 464 The pension deficit does not include amounts relating to the PSPS pension scheme for 2007.
These amounts are included in the accrued investment income and the other debtors note on H5.
Analysis of other provisions: 2007 m 2006 m At 1 January 238 175 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 116 161 Unused amounts reversed 23 13 Used during the year 112 81 Exchange differences 1 4 At 31 December 220 238 Comprising: Legal provisions 19 11 Restructuring provisions 35 72 Other provisions 166 155 Total 220 238 Of the other provisions balance, 77 million 2006: 55 million is expected to be settled within one year.
Employer contributions expected to be paid into defined benefit pension schemes within one year are shown in note I1.
Legal provisions The legal provisions of 19 million 2006: 11 million relate predominantly to Jackson.
Jackson has been named in civil proceedings, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
During 2007, an additional provision of 12 million was made and 4 million was paid.
Restructuring provisions Restructuring provisions of 35 million 2006: 76 million comprise 35 million 2006: 72 million relating to restructuring activity of UK insurance operations and nil 2006: 4 million relating to discontinued banking operations.
262 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H14: Provisions and contingencies continued UK restructuring In 2004 and 2005, Prudential implemented restructurings relating to document management review, streamlining operations, and the relocation of activities to an offshore base in India.
In December 2005, the Group announced an initiative for UK insurance operations to work more closely with Egg and M&G and in the process facilitate the realisation of substantial annualised pre-tax cost savings and opportunities for revenue synergies.
At 1 January 2006, a provision of 30 million was brought forward, and during 2006 an additional 75 million was provided, 4 million of unused provision was released, and 29 million was paid.
During 2007, an additional provision of 21 million was provided, 14 million of unused provision was released, and 44 million was paid.
On 28 November 2007 Prudential UK announced it had entered into a partnership agreement with Capita Group Plc Capita to outsource a large proportion of its in-force and new business policy administration.
Under the terms of the proposed agreement, Capita will provide customer servicing, policy administration, new business processing, claims activity and related IT support to Prudential UK.
Discontinued banking operations restructuring Following the disposal of Egg in 2007 there was no provision held at 31 December 2007.
In 2006, as a result of the UK and Egg initiative described above, a provision of 1 million was brought forward relating to Eggs withdrawal from the French market, and during 2006 an additional 11 million was provided, of which 8 million was used.
Other provisions Other provisions of 166 million 2006: 155 million include provisions of 155 million 2006: 134 million relating to staff benefit schemes.
During 2007, another 78 million was provided, 3 million of unused provision was released and 54 million was paid.
In 2006, a provision of 94 million was brought forward, an additional 78 million was provided, 7 million of unused provision was released and 31 million was paid.
Other provisions also include 11 million 2006: 18 million relating to various onerous contracts where, in 2007, an additional 2 million was provided, 1 million of unused provision was released and 8 million was used.
In 2006, 19 million was brought forward, 1 million was provided and 2 million was used.
The remaining provisions of 3 million in 2006 include VAT provisions.
Contingencies and related obligations Litigation In addition to the legal proceedings relating to Jackson mentioned above, the Group is involved in other litigation and regulatory issues arising in the ordinary course of business.
Whilst the outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the directors believe that the ultimate outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Pension mis-selling review In 1988, the UK government introduced new pensions legislation intended to encourage more individuals to make their own arrangements for their pensions.
During the period from April 1988 to June 1994, many individuals were advised by insurance companies, Independent Financial Advisers and other intermediaries to not join, to transfer from or to opt out of their occupational pension schemes in favour of private pension products introduced under the UK Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The UK insurance regulator previously the Personal Investment Authority, now the FSA, subsequently determined that many individuals were incorrectly advised and would have been better off not purchasing the private pension products sold to them.
Industry participants are responsible for compensating the persons to whom private pensions were mis-sold.
As a result, the FSA required that all UK life insurance companies review their potential cases of pension mis-selling and pay compensation to policyholders where necessary and, as a consequence, record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the FSA to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
263 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies continued The table below summarises the change in the pension mis-selling provision for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006.
The change in the provision is included in benefits and claims in the income statement and the movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds has been determined accordingly.
2007 m 2006 m Balance at beginning of year 401 331 Changes to actuarial assumptions and method of calculation 71 108 Discount unwind 22 15 Redress to policyholders 41 48 Payment of administrative costs 5 5 Balance at end of year 448 401 The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4.
The pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2007 set out above of 448 million is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate implied in the movement in the year is 4.6 per cent.
The undiscounted amounts at 31 December 2007 expected to be paid in each of the years ending 31 December are as follows: 2007 m Year ended 31 December 2008 51 2009 15 2010 15 2011 15 2012 22 Thereafter 707 Total undiscounted amount 825 Aggregate discount 377 Discounted pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2007 448 The liability accounting for the contracts which are the subject of the mis-selling provision is reflected in two elements, namely the core policyholder liability determined on the basis applied for other contract liabilities and the mis-selling provision.
The overall liability for these contracts remains appropriate in the context of the accounting for policyholder liabilities that determines the calculation of both elements.
However, the constituent elements are reallocated and remeasured for the changes arising from the application of the realistic Peak 2 basis of liabilities for the core policyholder liability, as reflected in the IFRS policy improvement to apply the UK GAAP standard FRS 27 as described in section A4.
The FSA periodically updates the actuarial assumptions to be used in calculating the provision, including interest rates and mortality assumptions.
The pension mis-selling provision represents the discounted value of future expected payments, including benefit payments and all internal and external legal and administrative costs of adjudicating, processing and settling those claims.
To the extent that amounts have not been paid, the provision increases each year reflecting the shorter period of discount.
The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling as well as the costs and expenses of the Groups pension review unit established to identify and settle such cases.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate.
Accordingly, these costs have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders pay-out values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
The assurance was designed to protect both existing policyholders at the date it was announced, and policyholders who subsequently purchased policies while the pension mis-selling review was continuing.
264 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H statements H14: Provisions and contingencies continued This review was completed on 30 June 2002.
The assurance will continue to apply to any policy in force at 31 December 2003, both for premiums paid before 1 January 2004, and for subsequent regular premiums including future fixed, RPI or salary related increases and Department of Work and Pensions rebate business.
The assurance has not applied to new business since 1 January 2004.
New business in this context consists of new policies, new members to existing pension schemes plus regular and single premium top-ups, transfers and switches to existing arrangements.
The maximum amount of capital support available under the terms of the assurance will reduce over time as claims are paid on the policies covered by it.
The bonus and investment policy for each type of with-profits policy is the same irrespective of whether or not the assurance applies.
Hence removal of the assurance for new business has had no impact on policyholder returns and this is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Mortgage endowment products review In common with several other UK insurance companies, the Group used to sell low-cost endowment products related to repayment of residential mortgages.
At sale, the initial sum assured is set at a level such that the projected benefits, including an estimate of the annual bonus receivable over the life of the policy, will equal or exceed the mortgage debt.
Because of a decrease in expected future investment returns since these products were sold, the FSA is concerned that the maturity value of some of these products will be less than the mortgage debt.
The FSA has worked with insurance companies to devise a programme whereby the companies write to customers indicating whether they may have a possible shortfall and outline the actions that the customers can take to prevent this possibility.
The Group is exposed to mortgage endowment products in respect of policies issued by Scottish Amicable Life plc SAL and policies issued by Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society SALAS which were transferred into SAIF.
At 31 December 2007, provisions of 5 million 2006: 5 million in SAL and 43 million 2006: 45 million in SAIF were held to cover potential compensation in respect of mortgage endowment product mis-selling claims.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, this provision has no impact on shareholders.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2007 Prudential Assurances main with-profits fund paid compensation of 5 million 2006: 11 million in respect of mortgage endowment products mis-selling claims and at 31 December 2007 held a provision of 55 million 2006: 60 million in respect of further compensation.
The movement in this provision has no impact on the Groups profit before tax.
In May 2006, the Group introduced a deadline for both Prudential and Scottish Amicable mortgage endowment complaints.
Impacted customers have three years to lodge a mis-selling complaint in line with the time limit prescribed by the FSA and the ABI.
Guaranteed annuities Prudential Assurance used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2007 held a provision of 45 million 2006: 47 million within the main with-profits fund to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2007 a provision of 563 million 2006: 561 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Other matters Inherited estate of the PAC long-term fund The assets of the main with-profits fund within the long-term fund of PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the with-profits fund is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the with-profits fund is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
The inherited estate represents the major part of the working capital of PACs long-term insurance fund.
This enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment flexibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent to which it has been required to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
PAC believes that it would be beneficial if there were greater clarity as to the status of the inherited estate.
As a result, PAC has announced that it has begun a process to determine whether it can achieve that clarity through a reattribution of the inherited estate.
As part of this process a Policyholder Advocate has been nominated to represent policyholders interests.
This nomination does not mean that a reattribution will occur.
265 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on balance sheet items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies continued Given the size of the Groups with-profits business any proposal is likely to be time consuming and complex to implement and is likely to involve a payment to policyholders from shareholders funds.
If a reattribution is completed, the inherited estate will continue to provide working capital for the long-term insurance fund.
Support for long-term business funds by shareholders funds As a proprietary insurance company, the Group is liable to meet its obligations to policyholders even if the assets of the long-term funds are insufficient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the long-term funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a significant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of significant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support.
In 1997, the business of SALAS, a mutual society, was transferred to Prudential Assurance.
In effecting the transfer, a separate sub-fund, SAIF, was established within Prudential Assurances long-term business fund.
This sub-fund contains all the with-profits business and all other pension business that was transferred.
No new business has been or will be written in the sub-fund and the sub-fund is managed to ensure that all the invested assets are distributed to SAIF policyholders over the lifetime of SAIF policies.
With the exception of certain amounts in respect of the unitised with-profits life business, all future earnings arising in SAIF are retained for SAIF policyholders.
Any excess deficiency of revenue over expense within SAIF during a period is offset by a transfer to from the SAIF unallocated surplus.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on this business.
With the exception of certain guaranteed annuity products mentioned earlier in this note, and certain products which include a minimum guaranteed rate of accumulation, the majority of SAIF with-profits policies do not guarantee minimum rates of return to policyholders.
Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the Prudential Assurance long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benefits in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the Prudential Assurance long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
Guarantees and commitments Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies.
These guarantee funds are financed by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The Group estimated its reserve for future guarantee fund assessments for Jackson to be 9 million at 31 December 2007 2006: 9 million.
Similar assessments for the UK businesses were not significant.
The directors believe that the reserve is adequate for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
At 31 December 2007, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 181 million 2006: 174 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and of 104 million 2006: 38 million related to commercial mortgage loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the directors do not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third parties entered into in the normal course of business but the directors do not consider that the amounts involved are significant.
H15: Other liabilities 2007 m 2006 m Creditors arising from direct insurance and reinsurance operations 538 521 Interest payable 76 89 Derivative liabilities 1,080 510 Other items 177 378 Continuing operations 1,871 1,498 Discontinued banking operations 154 Total 1,871 1,652 266 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial H I statements I: Other notes I1: Staff and pension plans a Staff and employment costs The average number of staff employed by the Group during the year were: 2007 2006 Business operations: UK operations 7,732 8,259 US operations 3,123 2,863 Asian operations 16,807 12,114 Venture fund investment subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund see below 21,184 8,898 Continuing operations 48,846 32,134 Discontinued banking operations 770 2,655 Total 49,616 34,789 The costs of employment for continuing operations were: 2007 m 2006 m Business operations: Wages and salaries 819 761 Social security costs 62 58 Other pension costs see below 62 67 Pension actuarial gains credited to income statement 296 469 234 402 Venture fund investment subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund see below 423 230 Total for continuing operations 1,070 647 Discontinued banking operations 21 76 Total 1,091 723 Other pension costs comprises 34 million 2006: 45 million relating to defined benefit schemes and 28 million 2006: 22 million relating to defined contribution schemes of continuing operations.
Of the defined contribution scheme costs, 19 million 2006: 14 million related to overseas defined contribution schemes.
The 34 million 2006: 45 million comprises a 14 million 2006: 29 million charge on an economic basis, reflecting the total assets of the schemes, and a further 20 million 2006: 16 million charge to adjust for amounts invested in Prudential insurance policies to arrive at the IAS 19 basis charge.
The 296 million 2006: 469 million of actuarial gains comprises 295 million 2006: 485 million of actuarial gains on an economic basis and 1 million actuarial gain 2006: 16 million actuarial losses for amounts invested in Prudential insurance policies.
The derivation of these amounts is shown in note b i 7 below.
Of the 423 million 2006: 230 million costs of employment for venture fund investment subsidiaries, 349 million 2006: 189 million relates to wages and salaries, 70 million 2006: 27 million relates to social security costs and 4 million 2006: 14 million relates to pension costs.
Following the change of control arrangements put in place at the same time as the sale by the Group of PPM Capital in November 2007, the Group no longer controls those venture fund investment subsidiaries managed by the sold entity and consequently has ceased to consolidate these operations subsequent to this, with the average number of staff employed and costs of employment for 2007 detailed above reflecting the period prior to disposal.
Of the 21 million 2006: 76 million costs of employment for discontinued banking operations, 18 million 2006: 64 million relates to wages and salaries, 2 million 2006: 7 million relates to social security costs and 1 million 2006: 5 million relates to pension costs.
b Pension plans i Defined benefit plans 1 Summary The Group business operations operate a number of pension schemes.
The specific features of these plans vary in accordance with the regulations of the country in which the employees are located, although they are, in general, funded wholly by the Group and based either on a cash balance formula or on years of service and salary earned in the last year or years of employment.
The largest defined benefit scheme is the principal UK scheme, namely the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
Eighty-seven per cent 2006: 88 per cent of the liabilities of the Group defined benefit schemes are accounted for within PSPS.
267 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I1: Staff and pension plans continued The Group also operates two smaller defined benefit schemes for UK employees in respect of Scottish Amicable and M&G activities.
For all three schemes the projected unit method was used for the most recent full actuarial valuations.
There is also a small defined benefit scheme in Taiwan.
As at 31 December 2007, the shareholders share of the surplus for PSPS and the deficits of the other schemes amounted to a 76 million surplus net of related tax relief 2006: 8 million deficit.
These amounts are determined after including amounts invested by PSPS and the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as explained later in this note.
Defined benefit schemes in the UK are generally required to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years to assess the appropriate level of funding for schemes having regard to their commitments.
These valuations include assessments of the likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate trustee administered funds.
PSPS was last actuarially valued as at 5 April 2005 and this valuation demonstrated the scheme to be 94 per cent funded, with a shortfall of actuarially determined assets to liabilities of six per cent, representing a deficit of 243 million.
The finalisation of the valuation as at 5 April 2005 was accompanied by changes to the basis of funding for the scheme with effect from that date.
Deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a 10 year period have been and are being made based on that valuation.
Total contributions to the Scheme for deficit funding and employers contributions for ongoing service for current employees are expected to be of the order of 70-75 million per annum over a 10-year period.
In 2007, total contributions for the year including expenses and augmentations were 82 million 2006: 137 million.
The 2006 amount reflected an increased level of contributions for ongoing service and deficit funding backdated to 6 April 2005 including expenses and augmentations.
Under IAS 19 the basis of valuation differs markedly from the full triennial valuation basis.
In particular, IAS 19 requires assets of the scheme to be valued at their market value at the year end, while pension liabilities are required to be discounted at a rate consistent with the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond.
As a result, the difference between IAS 19 basis assets and liabilities can be volatile.
For those schemes such as PSPS, which hold a significant proportion of their assets in equity investments, the volatility can be particularly significant.
On the economic basis including investments of PSPS and the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as assets for 2007, a 23 million 2006: 28 million pre-tax shareholder charge to operating results based on longer-term returns arises.
In addition, outside the operating result but included in total profits is a pre-tax shareholder credit of 90 million 2006: 167 million for net actuarial gains.
In addition, also on the economic basis, the PAC with-profits sub-fund was credited 9 million 2006: charge of 1 million for the aggregate of service cost and net finance income and benefited by 205 million 2006: 318 million for its share of net actuarial gains on the scheme assets and liabilities.
As shareholder profits for the PAC with-profits sub-fund reflects the surplus for distribution, these amounts are effectively absorbed by an increased charge in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus.
The actuarial gains primarily represent the difference between actual and expected investment returns for the schemes and the reduction in liabilities primarily caused by an increase in the discount rate caused by increases in corporate bond returns, which more than offsets the effects of strengthened mortality assumptions for the UK pension schemes.
Surpluses and deficits on the Groups defined benefit schemes are apportioned to the PAC life fund and shareholders funds based on estimates of employees service between them.
At 31 December 2005, the deficit of PSPS was apportioned in the ratio 70 30 between the life-fund and shareholder-backed operations following detailed consideration of the sourcing of previous contributions.
This ratio was applied to the base deficit position at 1 January 2006 and for the purpose of determining the allocation of the movements in that position up to 31 December 2007.
The IAS 19 service charge and ongoing employer contributions are allocated by reference to the cost allocation for current activity.
The deficit of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme of 54 million has been allocated 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the PAC shareholder fund.
Reflecting these two elements, at 31 December 2007, the total share of the surplus on PSPS and the deficit on the smaller Scottish Amicable scheme attributable to the PAC with-profits fund amounted to a net surplus of 304 million 2006: 66 million net of related tax relief.
2 Corporate Governance The rules of the Groups largest pension arrangement, the defined benefit section of PSPS, a final salary scheme, specify that, in exercising its investment powers, the Trustees objective is to achieve the best overall investment return consistent with the security of the assets of the scheme.
In doing this, regard is had to the nature and duration of the schemes liabilities.
The Trustee sets the benchmark for the asset mix, following analysis of the liabilities by the Schemes Actuary and, having taken advice from the Investment Managers, then selects benchmark indices for each asset type in order to measure investment performance against a benchmark return.
The Trustee reviews strategy, the asset mix benchmark and the Investment Managers objectives every three years, to coincide with the Actuarial Valuation, or earlier if the Scheme Actuary recommends.
Interim reviews are conducted annually based on changing economic circumstances and financial market levels.
268 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I1: Staff and pension plans continued The Trustee sets the general investment policy and specifies any restrictions on types of investment and the degrees of divergence permitted from the benchmark, but delegates the responsibility for selection and realisation of specific investments to the Investment Managers.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Investment Managers are required by the Pensions Act 1995 to have regard to the need for diversification and suitability of investments.
Subject to a number of restrictions contained within the relevant asset management agreements, the Investment Managers are authorised to invest in any class of investment asset.
However, the Investment Managers will not invest in any new class of investment asset without prior consultation with the Trustee.
The Trustee consults the Principal Employer, the Prudential Assurance Company, on these investment principles, but the ultimate responsibility for the investment of the assets of the scheme lies with the Trustee.
The investment policies and strategies for the other two UK defined benefit schemes, the M&G Group Pension Scheme and the Scottish Amicable Staff Pension Scheme, which are both final salary schemes, follow similar principles, but have different target allocations reflecting the particular requirements of the schemes.
3 Assumptions The actuarial assumptions used in determining benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for the years ended 31 December were as follows: 2007 % 2006 % Discount rate 5.9 5.2 Rate of increase in salaries 5.3 5.0 Rate of increase of pensions in payment for inflation: Guaranteed maximum 5% 3.3 3.0 Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5 2.5 Discretionary 2.5 2.5 Expected returns on plan assets 6.2 5.9 The rates of 2.5 per cent shown are those for PSPS.
Assumed rates of increase of pensions in payment for inflation for all other schemes are 3.3 per cent in 2007 2006: 3.0 per cent.
The calculations are based on current actuarially calculated mortality estimates with a specific allowance made for future improvements in mortality, which is broadly in line with that adopted for the 92 series of mortality tables prepared by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
In 2007, the mortality assumptions were strengthened by including a floor to the medium cohort improvements.
The tables used for PSPS at 31 December 2007 were: Male: 100 per cent PMA92 with CMIR17 improvements to the valuation date and medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.75% up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120 2006: 100 per cent PMA92 with CMIR17 improvements to the valuation date and medium cohort improvements in future : and Female: 100 per cent PFA92 with CMIR17 improvements to the valuation date and 75% medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1% up to the age of 90 and decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120 2006: 100 per cent PFA92 with CMIR17 improvements to the valuation date and medium cohort improvements in future.
The assumed life expectancies on retirement at age 60, based on the mortality table used was: 2007 Years 2006 Years Male Female Male Female Retiring today 26.2 28.3 25.0 28.1 Retiring in 15 years time 28.7 29.3 26.1 29.1 The mean term of the current PSPS liabilities is around 20 years.
Using external actuarial advice provided by Watson Wyatt Partners for the valuation of PSPS and by Aon Limited for the M&G scheme, and internal advice for the Scottish Amicable scheme, the most recent full valuations have been updated to 31 December 2007, applying the principles prescribed by IAS 19.
269 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I1: Staff and pension plans continued 4 Summary financial position The Group liability in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Economic position: Surplus deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to the PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 338 73 Attributable to shareholder-financed operations i. e. to shareholders equity 109 8 Economic surplus as explained in note 5 below 447 65 Add back: investments in Prudential insurance policies offset on consolidation in the Group financial statements against insurance liabilities 312 287 Surplus deficit included in balance sheet under IAS 19 as explained in note 7 below 135 222 The following disclosures explain the economic position and IAS 19 basis of accounting after eliminating investment in Prudential insurance policies on consolidation.
5 Group economic financial position The economic financial position of the defined benefit pension schemes reflects the total assets of the schemes including investments in Prudential policies.
This is to be contrasted with the IAS 19 basis assets of the PSPS and M&G schemes, as consolidated into the Group balance sheet, which exclude investments in Prudential insurance policies which on the financial statement presentation are offset against policyholder liabilities.
i The surplus or deficits on the PSPS and Scottish Amicable schemes are partially attributable to the PAC with-profits fund: and ii The M&G pension scheme has invested 172 million at 31 December 2007 2006: 161 million in Prudential insurance policies.
Additionally, the PSPS scheme has invested 140 million at 31 December 2007 2006: 126 million in Prudential insurance policies.
As required by IFRS, this amount of scheme asset is eliminated against the policyholder liability and hence, for the purposes of preparing the consolidated balance sheet, the IAS 19 basis net pension asset liability is 312 million 2006: 287 million lower than the economic basis surplus of 447 million 2006: economic basis surplus of 65 million.
On the economic basis, after including the underlying assets represented by the investments in Prudential insurance policies as scheme assets, the balance sheets of the schemes at 31 December were: 2007 2006 Other Other schemes schemes PSPS note iii Total PSPS note iii Total m m m % m m m % Equities 1,278 265 1,543 28 1,346 282 1,628 31 Bonds 1,134 249 1,383 25 2,077 182 2,259 43 Properties 545 54 599 11 580 58 638 12 note i Cash-like investments 1,932 5 1,937 36 745 5 750 14 Total value of assets 4,889 573 5,462 100 4,748 527 5,275 100 Present value of benefit obligations 4,361 654 5,015 4,607 603 5,210 note ii Pre-tax surplus deficit 528 81 447 141 76 65 Notes i The PSPS has entered into a derivatives based strategy to match the duration and inflation profile of its liabilities.
This involved a reallocation from other investments to cash-like investments with an interest and inflation swap overlay.
In broad terms, the scheme is committed to making a series of payments related to LIBOR on a nominal amount and in return the scheme receives a series of fixed and inflation-linked payments which match a proportion of its liabilities.
As at 31 December 2007, the nominal value of the interest and inflation swaps amounted to 1.2 billion and 0.7 billion respectively.
ii The resulting scheme surplus or deficit arising from the excess of assets over liabilities or vice versa at 31 December 2007 comprised surplus of 338 million 2006: surplus of 73 million attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and surplus of 109 million 2006: deficit of 8 million attributable to shareholder operations.
iii In addition to PSPS, there are two smaller schemes in the UK, the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme, and the M&G Pension Scheme, with a combined deficit at 31 December 2007 of 71 million 2006: 67 million, gross of tax.
There is also a small scheme in Taiwan, which at 31 December 2007 had a deficit of 10 million 2006: 9 million, gross of tax.
270 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I1: Staff and pension plans continued The movements in the surplus deficit on the economic basis between scheme assets and liabilities were: 2007 m 2006 m Current service cost 58 69 Contributions 101 152 Other finance income 44 40 Actuarial gains 295 485 Net increase in surplus 382 608 Estimated pension scheme surplus deficit attributable to shareholder operations economic basis Movements on the pension scheme surplus deficit determined on the economic basis, to the extent attributable to shareholder operations are as follows: 2007 2007 m Charge to operating results based on longer-term Actuarial gains Contributions investment attributable to paid by At beginning returns shareholders shareholder At end of year note i note ii operations of year Gross of tax surplus deficit 8 23 90 50 109 Related deferred tax 6 25 14 33 Net of tax surplus deficit 8 17 65 36 76 2006 m Charge to operating results based on longer-term Actuarial gains Contributions investment attributable to paid by At beginning returns shareholders shareholder At end of year note i note ii operations of year Gross of tax deficit 214 28 167 67 8 Related deferred tax 61 9 50 20 Net of tax deficit 153 19 117 47 8 Notes i Charge to operating results based on longer-term investment returns This comprises: 2007 2006 m m Current service cost 58 69 Finance income expense : Interest on pension scheme liabilities 265 255 Expected return on pension scheme assets 309 295 44 40 Total charge net of finance income 14 29 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 9 1 Charge to operating results, based on longer-term investment returns, attributable to shareholders 23 28 271 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I1: Staff and pension plans continued Notes continued ii Actuarial gains and losses This comprises: 2007 2006 m m Actual less expected return on pension scheme assets 8 156 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 14 18 a Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 317 311 Total actuarial gains 295 485 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 205 318 Actuarial gains and losses attributable to shareholders, excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns, but included in profit before tax attributable to shareholders 90 167 a The gains of 317 million relating to changes in assumptions comprises the gains due to changes in economic assumptions of 509 million which are partially offset by a charge of 192 million for the effect of strengthened mortality assumptions for the UK schemes.
Since shareholder profits in respect of the PAC with-profits fund are a function of the actuarially determined surplus for distribution, the overall income statement result is not directly affected by the level of pension cost or other expenses attributable to the fund.
Estimated pension scheme surplus deficit attributable to PAC with-profits fund economic basis Movements on the pension scheme surplus deficits determined on the economic basis under which PSPS and M&G scheme assets include investments in Prudential insurance policies are as follows: 2007 2007 m Service cost less Actuarial Contributions net finance gains paid by PAC At beginning income losses with-profits At end of year note i above note ii above fund of year Gross of tax surplus 73 9 205 51 338 Related deferred tax 7 1 21 5 34 Net of tax surplus 66 8 184 46 304 2006 m Service cost less Actuarial Contributions net finance gains paid by PAC At beginning income losses with-profits At end of year note i above note ii above fund of year Gross of tax surplus deficit 329 1 318 85 73 Related deferred tax 33 0 32 8 7 Net of tax surplus deficit 296 1 286 77 66 The charges and credits for service cost, net finance income, and actuarial gains and losses are included within the income statement but also taken account of in determining the charge in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
272 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I1: Staff and pension plans continued 6 Movement in IAS 19 basis financial position The change in the present value of the benefit obligation and the change in fair value of the assets for the total of the PSPS, Scottish Amicable, M&G and Taiwan schemes over the period were as follows: 2007 2007 m IAS 19 basis: change in IAS 19 basis: Investments present Economic change in in Prudential Economic value basis: fair value of insurance basis: of benefit net plan assets policies total assets obligation obligation Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 4,988 287 5,275 5,275 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 5,210 5,210 4,988 287 5,275 5,210 65 Service cost current charge only 58 58 Interest cost 265 265 Expected return on plan assets 289 20 309 309 Employee contributions 2 1 3 3 Employer contributions 92 9 101 101 Actuarial gains 7 1 8 303 295 Benefit payments 214 4 218 218 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 5,150 312 5,462 5,462 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 5,015 5,015 Economic basis surplus 447 2006 m IAS 19 basis: change in IAS 19 basis: Investments present Economic change in in Prudential Economic value basis: fair value of insurance basis: of benefit net plan assets policies total assets obligation obligation Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 4,622 253 4,875 4,875 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 5,418 5,418 4,622 253 4,875 5,418 543 Service cost current charge only 69 69 Interest cost 255 255 Expected return on plan assets 279 16 295 295 Employee contributions 1 1 2 2 Employer contributions 148 4 152 152 Actuarial gains 140 16 156 329 485 Benefit payments 202 3 205 205 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 4,988 287 5,275 5,275 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 5,210 5,210 Economic basis surplus 65 273 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I1: Staff and pension plans continued 7 IAS 19 basis financial position as consolidated The IAS 19 basis net pensions deficit can be summarised as follows: 2007 m 2006 m 2005 m 2004 m Fair value of plan assets, end of year 5,150 4,988 4,622 4,092 Present value of funded benefit obligation 4,826 5,023 5,228 4,777 Funded status 324 35 606 685 Present value of unfunded obligations M&G scheme 189 187 190 140 Surplus provision recognised in the balance sheet 135 222 796 825 The M&G pension scheme assets are invested in Prudential insurance policies.
For IFRS accounting purposes, the M&G scheme is in effect unfunded.
Please see above for more details.
2007 m 2006 m Components of net periodic pension cost Current service cost 58 69 Interest cost 265 255 Expected return on assets economic basis 309 295 Less: expected return on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 20 16 Expected return on assets IAS 19 basis 289 279 I1a Pension cost charge as referred to in note 34 45 Actuarial gains economic basis 295 485 Less: actuarial gains on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 1 16 I1a Actuarial gains IAS 19 basis as referred to in note 296 469 Net periodic pension credit included within acquisition and other operating expenditure in the income statement 262 424 In determining the expected return on plan assets for 2007, the 5.9 per cent rate shown below has been applied to the opening assets.
The long-term expected rate of return has been taken to be the weighted average by market value of the long-term expected rates of return on each major asset class shown below: 2007 2006 2005 2004 m % m % m % m % Plan assets IAS 19 basis Equity 1,332 26 1,432 29 2,376 51 2,516 61 Bonds 1,299 25 2,185 44 1,593 35 993 24 Properties 583 11 621 12 575 12 520 13 Cash-like investments 1,936 38 750 15 78 2 63 2 Total 5,150 100 4,988 100 4,622 100 4,092 100 Prospectively for 2008 % 2007 % 2006 % Long-term expected rate of return Equity 7.5 7.5 7.1 Bonds 5.4 4.8 4.5 Properties 6.75 6.8 6.4 Cash 5.5 5.0 4.5 Weighted average long-term expected rate of return 6.1 5.9 6.1 The expected rates of return have been determined by reference to long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and equity and other market conditions at the balance sheet date.
The actual return on plan assets was 282 million 2006: 419 million on an IAS 19 basis.
274 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I1: Staff and pension plans continued None of the scheme assets included shares in Prudential plc or property occupied by the Prudential Group.
2007 m 2006 m 2005 m 2004 m Fair value of plan assets, end of year IAS 19 basis 5,150 4,988 4,622 4,092 Present value of the benefit obligation, end of year 5,015 5,210 5,418 4,917 Plan assets in surplus deficit of benefit obligation 135 222 796 825 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 14 18 1 17 Percentage of plan liabilities at 31 December 0.28% 0.35 % 0.02 % 0.35% Experience adjustments on plan assets IAS 19 basis 7 140 527 112 Percentage of plan assets at 31 December 0.14 % 2.81% 11.42% 2.74% Total employer contributions expected to be paid into the Group defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2008 amounts to 90 million 2007: 93 million.
8 Sensitivity of PSPS financial position to key variables The table below shows the sensitivity of the PSPS liabilities at 31 December 2007 of 4,361 million 2006: 4,607 million to changes in discount rates, inflation rates and mortality assumptions.
2007 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities on IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 5.9% to 5.7% Increase scheme liabilities by 3.5% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 5.9% to 6.1% Decrease scheme liabilities by 3.4% Rate of inflation Decrease by 0.2% from 3.3% to 3.1% Decrease scheme liabilities by 1.3% with consequent reduction in salary increases Mortality rates Reduce rates from 100% of table to 95% Increase liabilities by 1.2% 2006 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities on IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 5.2% to 5.0% Increase scheme liabilities by 3.6% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 5.2% to 5.4% Decrease scheme liabilities by 3.4% Rate of inflation Decrease by 0.2% from 3.0% to 2.8% Decrease scheme liabilities by 1.3% with consequent reduction in salary increases Mortality rates Reduce rates from 100% of table to 95% Increase liabilities by 1.2% 9 Transfer value of PSPS scheme At 31 December 2007, it is estimated that the assets of the scheme are broadly sufficient to cover the liabilities of PSPS on a buyout basis including an allowance for expenses.
The buyout basis refers to a basis that might apply in the circumstance of a transfer to another appropriate financial institution.
In making this assessment it has been assumed that a more conservative investment strategy applies together with a more prudent allowance for future mortality improvements and no allowance for discretionary pension increases.
ii Other pension plans The Group operates various defined contribution pension schemes including schemes in Jackson and Asia.
As noted earlier, the cost of the Groups contributions for continuing operations to these schemes in 2007 was 28 million 2006: 22 million.
275 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Share-based payments a Relating to Prudential plc shares The Group maintains 10 main share award and share option plans relating to Prudential plc shares, which are described below.
The GPSP is the incentive plan in which all executive directors and other senior executives within the Group can participate.
This scheme was established as a replacement for the Restricted Share Plan RSP under which no further awards could be made after March 2006.
Awards are granted either in the form of a nil cost option, conditional right over shares, or such other form that shall confer to the participant an equivalent economic benefit, with a vesting period of three years.
The performance measure for the awards is that Prudentials Total Shareholder Return TSR outperforms an index comprising of peer companies.
Vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight line sliding scale basis.
Participants are entitled to the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued on the shares that vest.
Shares are currently purchased in the open market by a trust for the benefit of qualifying employees.
The RSP was, until March 2006, the Groups long-term incentive plan for executive directors and other senior executives designed to provide rewards linked to shareholder return.
Each year participants were granted a conditional option to receive a number of shares.
There was a deferment period of three years at the end of which the award vested to an extent that depended on the performance of the Groups shares including notional reinvested dividends and on the Groups underlying financial performance.
After vesting, the option may be exercised at zero cost at any time, subject to closed period rules, in the balance of a 10-year period.
Shares are purchased in the open market by a trust for the benefit of qualifying employees.
The RSP replaced the Executive Share Option Scheme in 1995 and all options under this plan had been exercised at 31 December 2005.
No rights were granted in the RSP if the Companys TSR performance as ranked against the comparator group is below 50th percentile.
An option of 25 per cent of the maximum award is made.
The maximum grant is made only if the TSR ranking of the Company is 20th percentile or above.
Between these points, the size of the grant of option made is calculated on a straight line sliding scale.
The BUPP is an incentive plan created to provide a common framework under which awards would be made to senior employees and in the UK, Jackson and Asia include the Chief Executive Officers.
Awards under this plan in 2006 and 2007 were based on growth in Shareholder Capital Value on the European Embedded Value EEV basis with performance measured over three years.
Upon vesting, half of the vested award is released as shares and the other half released in cash.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of reinvested dividends over the performance period for those shares that vest.
The growth parameters for the awards are relevant to each region and vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight line sliding scale basis.
UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in the Prudential HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE scheme and the Asia-based executive director can participate in the equivalent International SAYE scheme.
The schemes allow employees to save towards the exercise of options over Prudential plc shares, at an option price set at the beginning of the savings period at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the market price.
Savings contracts may be up to 250 per month for three or five years, or additionally in the UK scheme seven years.
On maturity at the end of the set term, participants may exercise their options within six months of the end of the savings period and purchase Prudential plc shares.
If an option is not exercised within six months, participants are entitled to a refund of their cash contributions plus interest if applicable under the rules.
Shares are issued to satisfy options that are exercised.
No options may be granted under the schemes if the grant would cause the number of shares which have been issued, or which remain issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding 10 years under the scheme and other share option schemes operated by the Company, or which have been issued under any other share incentive scheme of the Company, to exceed 10 per cent of the Companys ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant.
UK-based executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan which allows all UK-based employees to purchase shares of Prudential plc partnership shares on a monthly basis out of gross salary.
For every four partnership shares bought, an additional matching share is awarded, purchased on the open market.
Dividend shares accumulate while the employee participates in the plan.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn from the scheme at any time.
If the employee withdraws from the plan within five years, the matching shares are forfeit and if within three years, dividend shares are forfeit.
Jackson operates a performance-related share award which, subject to the prior approval of the Jackson Remuneration Committee, may grant share awards to eligible Jackson employees in the form of a contingent right to receive shares or a conditional allocation of shares.
These share awards have vesting periods of four years and are at nil cost to the employee.
Award holders do not have any right to dividends or voting rights attaching to the shares.
The shares are held in the employee share trust in the form of American Depository Receipts which are tradable on the New York Stock Exchange.
Certain senior executives have annual incentive plans with awards paid in cash up to the target level of their plan.
The portion of any award for above target performance is made in the form of awards of shares deferred for three years, with the release of shares subject to close periods.
The shares are held in the employee share trust and shares equivalent to dividends otherwise payable will accumulate for the benefit of award holders during the deferral period up to the release date.
276 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I2: Share-based payments continued In addition, there are other share awards which included the 1,000 Day Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and other arrangements.
The 1,000 Day LTIP plan was a UK insurance operations performance-based plan in which the UK Remuneration Committee could, at any time up to 5 October 2005, select employees at its absolute discretion, for participation in the plan.
The performance period was 1,000 days and, based on the final performance level being at, or above, the threshold level, the committee shall grant participants 10 per cent of the allocated award in 2005, 20 per cent in 2006 and the remaining 70 per cent in 2007.
There are no beneficial interests, or any rights to dividends until such time as the awards are released, at nil cost, to participants.
The other arrangements relate to various awards that have been made without performance conditions to individual employees, typically in order to secure their appointment or ensure retention.
Movements in share options outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans relating to Prudential plc shares during 2007 and 2006 were as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Options outstanding including conditional options millions millions Beginning of year: 16.5 2.47 17.2 2.23 Granted 4.0 2.69 7.7 2.96 Exercised 1.9 3.42 5.1 2.75 Forfeited 1.4 1.37 1.2 0.85 Expired 2.7 2.13 3.1 4.09 Adjustment in respect of Eggs employees 1.0 3.64 End of year 14.5 2.57 16.5 2.47 Options immediately exercisable, end of year 0.2 3.35 0.2 3.56 The weighted average share price of Prudential plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 7.15 compared to 6.25 for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Movements in share awards outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans relating to Prudential plc shares at 31 December 2007 and 2006 were as follows: 2007 2006 Number of Number of awards awards Awards outstanding millions millions Beginning of year: 6.6 4.9 Granted 3.8 3.2 Exercised 1.3 1.0 Forfeited 1.1 0.5 Expired End of year 8.0 6.6 277 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Share-based payments continued The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options including conditional options outstanding at 31 December 2007.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 0 and 1 5.5 8.6 Between 1 and 2 Between 2 and 3 2.7 1.3 2.66 Between 3 and 4 1.2 1.7 3.62 0.2 3.37 Between 4 and 5 2.9 2.7 4.62 Between 5 and 6 2.2 3.5 5.62 Between 6 and 7 0.9 6.55 6.95 Between 7 and 8 14.5 4.7 2.57 0.2 3.35 The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options including conditional options outstanding at 31 December 2006.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 0 and 1 5.7 8.6 Between 1 and 2 Between 2 and 3 3.2 2.3 2.66 2.66 Between 3 and 4 3.1 2.0 3.52 0.2 3.62 Between 4 and 5 3.8 3.6 4.60 Between 5 and 6 0.7 3.3 5.63 5.79 Between 6 and 7 0.6 6.41 6.34 Between 7 and 8 0.9 7.15 16.5 4.8 2.47 0.2 3.56 The years shown above for weighted average remaining contractual life include the time period from end of vesting period to expiration of contract.
The weighted average fair values of Prudential plc options and awards granted during the period are as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Weighted average fair value Weighted average fair value Other RSP and Other GPSP options Awards GPSP options Awards 4.78 2.55 7.33 4.30 2.05 6.46 278 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I2: Share-based payments continued The fair value amounts relating to all options including conditional nil cost options above were determined using the Black-Scholes and the Monte Carlo option-pricing models using the following assumptions: 2007 2006 Other RSP and Other GPSP options GPSP options Dividend yield % 2.32 2.32 2.64 2.64 Expected volatility % 28.90 27.17 25.48 34.32 Risk-free interest rate % 5.46 5.25 4.68 4.70 Expected option life years 3.0 3.48 3.00 3.42 Weighted average exercise price 5.62 5.06 Weighted average share price 7.52 7.47 6.80 6.51 Under IFRS, compensation costs for all share-based compensation plans are determined using the Black-Scholes model and the Monte Carlo model.
Share options and awards are valued using the share price at the date of grant.
The compensation costs for all awards and options are recognised in net income over the plans respective vesting periods.
The Group uses the Black-Scholes model to value all options and awards other than the GPSP, for which the Group uses a Monte Carlo model in order to allow for the impact of the TSR performance conditions.
These models are used to calculate fair values for share options and awards at the grant date based on the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date, the amount, if any, that the employees are required to pay, the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and exercise prices.
The expected volatility is measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period up to the grant date equal to the expected life of options.
Risk-free interest rates are UK gilt rates with projections for three, five and seven year terms to match corresponding vesting periods.
Dividend yield is determined as the average yield over the year of grant and expected dividends are not incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
For the GPSP, volatility and correlation between Prudential and an index constructed from a simple average of the TSR growth of 11 companies is required.
For grants in 2007, an average index volatility and correlation of 18 per cent and 72 per cent respectively, were used.
When options are granted or awards made to employees, an estimate is made of what percentage is more than likely to vest, be forfeited, lapse or cancelled based on historical information.
Based on these estimates, compensation expense to be accrued at that date is calculated and amortised over the vesting period.
For early exercises of options or release of awards due to redundancy, death or resignation, the compensation expense is immediately recognised and for forfeitures due to employees leaving the Group, any previously recognised expense is reversed.
However, if an employee loses their award because of the Groups failure to meet the performance criteria, previously recognised expense is not reversed.
During the year, the Group granted share options to certain non-employee independent financial advisors.
Those options were measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions consistent with those of other share options.
These transactions were measured using an option model because the Group does not receive a separate and measurable benefit from those non-employees in exchange for the options granted.
As such, the fair value of the options themselves is more readily determinable than the services received in return.
b Relating to Egg plc shares In April 2006, Prudential became bound or entitled to acquire shares in Egg following the announcement of its intention in December 2005 to acquire the minority interests in Egg representing approximately 21.7 per cent of the existing issued share capital of Egg.
As a consequence of this acquisition, employees of Egg that were participants of its SAYE schemes were requested to either rollover all or part of their options for equivalent options in Prudential shares or to take no action.
Employees could adopt different courses of actions for options granted on different dates but may only adopt one course of action in respect of each grant of options.
The rollover was based on employees receiving 0.2237 Prudential shares for each Egg share that was under option with total amount payable for the new Prudential shares being exactly the same as the total amount payable for the Egg shares.
As a result, all outstanding executive share options became exercisable and awards under the RSP were assessed against the performance conditions.
None of the awards met the performance conditions and they have therefore lapsed in February 2006 following consideration of the performance measurement results by the Remuneration Committee.
On 1 May 2007, Egg Banking plc was sold to Citi and, at 31 December 2007, there were no outstanding SAYE options to acquire Egg shares.
279 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Share-based payments continued c Total share-based payment expense Total expense recognised in the year in the consolidated financial statements related to share-based compensation is as follows: 2007 m 2006 m Share-based compensation expense 28 22 Amount accounted for as equity-settled 19 14 Carrying value at 31 December of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 18 18 Intrinsic value of above liabilities for which rights had vested at 31 December 4 3 I3: Key management remuneration Key management constitutes the directors of Prudential plc as they have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Total key management remuneration amounts to 15,670,000 2006: 13,524,000.
Post-employment benefits comprise the change in the transfer value of the accrued benefit relating to directors defined benefit pension schemes in the year and the total contributions made to directors other pension arrangements.
The share-based payments charge is the sum of 3,456,000 2006: 1,880,000, which is determined in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments see note I2 and 1,751,000 2006: 1,406,000 of deferred share awards.
Total key management remuneration includes total directors emoluments of 11,959,000 2006: 11,084,000 as shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 102 to 123, and additional amounts in respect of pensions and share-based payments.
Further information on directors remuneration is given in the directors remuneration report.
I4: Fees payable to auditor 2007 m 2006 m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.8 2.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 4.4 3.8 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 2.9 4.0 Other services relating to taxation 0.4 0.2 Valuation and actuarial services 0.7 0.0 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.2 0.7 All other services 1.0 1.3 Total 11.4 12.3 In addition, there were fees incurred of 0.2 million 2006: 0.2 million for the audit of pension schemes.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services provided to the Group by its auditor and has developed a formal Auditor Independence Policy which sets out the types of services that the auditor may provide, consistent with the guidance in Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance and with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors objectivity and independence.
More information on these issues is given in the corporate governance report on page 95.
280 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I5: Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups balance sheet at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
Further details of the aggregate assets, liabilities, revenues, profits or losses and reporting dates of entities considered to be associates under IFRS are disclosed in note H8.
Various executive officers and directors of Prudential may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products, or be granted mortgages or credit card facilities marketed by Prudential Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security requirements, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
Apart from the transactions with directors referred to below, no director had an interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires disclosure, other than those given in the directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note I3.
In 2007, prior to disposal, three 2006: three directors had credit cards with the discontinued banking operations.
In 2007 and 2006, other transactions with directors were fide-minimis both by virtue of their size and in the context of the directors financial positions.
As indicated above, all of the above noted transactions are on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
I6: Subsidiary undertakings i Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2007, all wholly owned except PCA Life Assurance Company Limited, were: Country of Main activity incorporation The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Annuities Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL Insurance Scotland M&G Investment Management Limited Asset management England and Wales Jackson National Life Insurance Company Insurance US Prudential Assurance Company Singapore Pte Limited Insurance Singapore PCA Life Assurance Company Limited 99% owned Insurance Taiwan Owned by a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
Each subsidiary has one class of ordinary shares and operates mainly in its country of incorporation, except for PRIL which operates mainly in England and Wales.
ii Dividend restrictions and minimum capital requirements Certain Group subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins which must be supported by capital reserves and other resources, including unrealised gains on investments.
Furthermore, without the prior regulatory approval, dividends cannot be distributed if all dividends made within the preceding 12 months exceed the greater of Jacksons statutory net gain from operations or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus for the prior year.
In 2008, the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid by Jackson without prior regulatory approval is US$490 million 246 million in 2007: US$412 million 211 million.
The Groups Asian subsidiaries, mainly the Singapore and Malaysia businesses, may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
PAC and Jackson are the two principal insurance subsidiaries of the Group, which together comprise approximately 78 per cent 2006: 76 per cent of total Group assets.
At 31 December 2007, the PAC long-term funds excess of available capital resources over its regulatory requirement as per line 42 of Form 2 of the PAC FSA regulatory returns was estimated to be 10.5 billion 2006: 9.7 billion and the statutory capital and surplus of Jackson was US$4.0 billion 2.0 billion 2006: US$3.7 billion 1.9 billion.
The Group capital position statement for life assurance businesses is set out in note D5.
281 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I6: Subsidiary undertakings continued iii Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 2006 In December 2005, the Company announced its intention to acquire the minority interests in Egg representing approximately 21.7 per cent of the existing issued share capital of Egg.
The whole of the minority interests were acquired in the first half of 2006.
Under the terms of the offer, Egg shareholders received 0.2237 new ordinary shares in the Company for each Egg share resulting in the issue of 41.6 million new shares in the Company.
The Company accounted for the purchase of minority interests using the economic entity method.
Accordingly, 167 million was charged to retained earnings representing the difference between the consideration paid including expenses of 251 million and the share of net assets acquired of 84 million.
2007 On 29 January 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a binding agreement to sell Egg Banking plc to Citi.
Additional details regarding the disposal are set out in note J.
On 9 November 2007, the Company announced that it had completed the sale of PPM Capital, its direct private equity business.
iv PAC with-profits fund acquisition The PAC with-profits fund acquired a number of venture capital holdings through PPM Capital and M&G in which the Group was deemed to have a controlling interest, in aggregate with, if applicable, other holdings held by, for example, the PSPS.
Following the disposal of PPM Capital by the Group in November 2007, the Group is no longer deemed to have a controlling interest in investments managed by PPM capital and consequently any subsequent investments have not been consolidated into the Group and the investments previously consolidated ceased to be consolidated from the date of disposal of PPM Capital.
There were two venture investment acquisitions in 2007 and three in 2006.
These were acquisitions for: 2007 71 per cent of the voting equity interest of Orizon AG, an employment hiring agency, in March 2007: and 78 per cent of the voting equity interest of Red Funnel, a ferry company, in June 2007.
Orizon AG was managed by PPM Capital while Red Funnel is managed by M&G.
2006 53 per cent of the voting equity interests of Histoire Dor, a jewellery retail company, in April 2006: 51 per cent of the voting equity interests of Azzuri Communications, a business IT service company, in June 2006: and 60 per cent of the voting equity interests of Paramount plc, a restaurant company, in September 2006.
All of these venture investments were managed by PPM Capital.
These acquisitions are considered individually immaterial and therefore all information relating to ventures acquisitions has been presented in aggregate throughout this note.
Due to the nature of venture investments, it is not practicable to provide certain information for those acquisitions, including the pro forma Group revenue and consolidated net profit information as if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year, and the carrying amounts, in accordance with IFRS, of each class of the acquirees assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities immediately before acquisition.
The results of the aggregated ventures acquisitions in 2007 and 2006 have been included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group commencing on the respective dates of acquisition and contributed a loss of 8.3 million 2006: loss of 7.7 million to earnings within the income statement, which is also reflected as part of the change in unallocated surplus of the with-profits fund.
The results of Orizon AG included in the loss of 8.3 million above was from the date of its acquisition to November 2007 when it ceased to be consolidated.
282 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I statements I6: Subsidiary undertakings continued The table below identifies the net assets of these acquisitions and minor business purchases by existing venture holdings.
This reconciles the net assets to the consideration paid in 2007 and 2006: 2007 m 2006 m Fair value on Fair value on acquisition acquisition Cash and cash equivalents 20 18 Other current assets 26 31 Property, plant and equipment 38 45 Intangible assets other than goodwill 1 139 Other non-current assets 3 100 Less liabilities, including current liabilities and borrowings 304 581 216 248 Less minority interests Net assets acquired 216 248 Goodwill 313 336 Cash consideration 97 88 Aggregate goodwill of 313 million 2006: 336 million has been recognised for the excess of the cost over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the entities assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities acquired in 2007. v PAC with-profits fund disposals and deconsolidation of venture fund investments 2007 In November 2007, the Group disposed of PPM Capital, following which the Group no longer has a controlling interest in venture fund investment subsidiaries managed by PPM Capital and consequently has ceased to consolidate these investments.
The cessation of control arises from the Groups interest in venture fund investments being held either through partnership agreements, with the Group a limited partner, or, where there is a direct holding, an asset management agreement being in place, both of which result in the Group only being able to exert control under exceptional circumstances.
As a result SUSPA, TJ Hughes, Sterigenics, Muller & Weygandt, TMF Group, JOST, Histoire Dor, Azzuri Communications, Paramount plc and Orizon AG ceased to be consolidated as subsidiary undertakings from the date of disposal of PPM Capital.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of amortisation, relating to these investments of 916 million at the date of disposal of PPM Capital, were derecognised accordingly.
2006 In 2006, Upperpoint Distribution Limited, Taverner Hotel Group Pty Ltd, Orefi, Aperio Group Pty Ltd and BST Safety Textiles Luxembourg S. a. r. l. all venture subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund, were disposed of for cash consideration of 133 million.
Goodwill of 46 million and cash and cash equivalents of 19 million were disposed of.
Note that, in addition, one venture subsidiary was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2006 see note H9.
283 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I7: Commitments i Operating leases The Group leases various offices to conduct its business.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2007 m 2006 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 38 53 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 126 142 Later than 5 years 111 160 The total minimum future sublease rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 0.4 million 2006: 1 million.
Minimum lease rental payments for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 50 million 2006: 50 million are included in the consolidated income statement.
ii Capital commitments The Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
At 31 December 2007, the aggregate amount of contractual obligations to purchase and develop investment properties amounted to 64 million 2006: 146 million.
The vast majority of these commitments have been made by the PAC with-profits fund.
I8: Cash flows Structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations comprise core debt of the holding company and central finance subsidiaries, Jackson surplus notes and, prior to disposal, Egg debenture loans.
Core debt excludes borrowings to support short-term fixed income securities programmes and non-recourse borrowings of investment subsidiaries and consolidated investment funds of shareholder-financed operations.
Cash flows in respect of these borrowings are included within cash flows from operating activities.
Structural borrowings of with-profits operations relate solely to the 100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds which contribute to the solvency base of SAIF.
Cash flows in respect of other borrowings of with-profits funds, which principally relate to consolidated investment funds and, prior to deconsolidation, venture fund investment subsidiaries, are also included within cash flows from operating activities.
Cash flows relating to discontinued operations, as detailed in note J1, are inflows of 157 million and 184 million for the period of ownership in 2007 and 2006 respectively.
All of these relate to cash flows from operating activities except for an outflow of 33 million in 2006 which relates to financing activities.
284 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial I J statements Notes on the Group financial statements J: Discontinued banking operations Discontinued banking operations relate entirely to UK banking operations following the sale on 1 May 2007 of Egg Banking plc to Citi.
Consideration payable to the Company was, net of expenses, 527 million cash.
The reduction from the 575 million consideration noted in the original announcement primarily reflected Eggs post-tax operating loss of 49 million for the period from 1 January 2007 to the date of sale.
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of were 1,065 million.
Accordingly, the cash outflow for the Group arising from the disposal of Egg, as shown in the consolidated cash flow statement, was 538 million.
Prior to the disposal the Group undertook banking operations almost wholly through its subsidiary, Egg Banking plc.
Financial information in respect of Egg Banking plc, together with amounts in respect of its former parent Egg plc and its associate IFonline, have been included in this note.
Note I6 shows details of the purchase of the minority interests in Egg plc in 2006.
The Group has presented the income statement and balance sheet for discontinued banking operations in a format that demonstrates the characteristics and principal operations specific to a bank.
The format is different from that of the Group consolidated income statement and balance sheet: however, total profit loss for the year and net assets remain the same.
To understand how the amounts presented from discontinued banking operations are consolidated in the Group financial statements, refer to the primary segmental information for the income statement in note F1 and the primary segmental information for the balance sheet in note B6.
J1: Income statement for discontinued banking operations The profit loss included in the income statement in respect of discontinued banking operations for the period of ownership is as follows: Note 2007 m 2006 m Interest income 261 783 Interest expense 148 453 Net interest income 113 330 Fee and commission income 41 153 Fee and commission expense 8 23 Other operating income 8 Operating income 146 468 General administrative expenses 56 192 Impairment losses on loans and cash advances to customers J5 149 384 Other operating expenses 9 49 Operating loss based on longer-term investment returns 68 157 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 7 Profit on sale of Egg Banking plc 290 Profit loss before tax 222 150 Tax on operating loss based on longer-term investment returns 19 47 Tax on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 2 Tax on profit on sale of Egg Banking plc 0 Tax attributable to shareholders profits 19 45 Profit loss for the year 241 105 The interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss for the period of ownership in 2007 was 241 million 2006: 769 million.
The interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss for the period of ownership in 2007 was 148 million 2006: 428 million.
Fee and commission income includes 27 million 2006: 83 million relating to financial instruments held at amortised cost.
These fees primarily related to balance transfer fees and late payment fees.
Fee and commission expense includes fee expenses relating to financial liabilities held at amortised cost of 4 million 2006: 13 million which related to treasury fees.
Of the profit loss for the period of ownership in 2007 and 2006, a loss of nil million and a loss of 2 million, respectively, are attributable to minority interests in Egg.
285 Notes on the Group financial statements J: Discontinued banking operations continued J2: Balance sheet for discontinued banking operations Assets, liabilities and shareholders funds included in the Group consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2006 in respect of discontinued banking operations are as follows: 2006 m Assets Cash and balances with central banks 6 Loans and advances to banks 903 Loans and advances to customers 6,193 Investment securities 1,976 Derivative financial instruments 78 Other assets 342 Total assets 9,498 Liabilities Deposits by banks 2,220 Customer accounts 5,554 Debt securities issued 599 Derivative financial instruments 154 Other liabilities 228 Subordinated liabilities 451 Total liabilities 9,206 Equity Shareholders equity 292 Total equity and liabilities 9,498 J3: Risk management overview Through Egg the Group offered banking and credit card products and intermediated services.
Through its normal operations, Egg was exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which was credit, operational, liquidity, market and currency risk.
The overall responsibility for risk management and the risk appetite of Egg was set by the Egg Board and responsibility for managing these risks resided with the Egg executive committee.
The exposure to specific risks was monitored by the Egg executive committee through separate committees: the retail credit committee was responsible for retail credit risk, the wholesale credit committee was responsible for wholesale credit risk, the operational risk committee was responsible for operational risk and the asset and liability committee ALCO was responsible for liquidity, market and currency risk.
Egg used financial instruments including derivatives for the purpose of supporting the strategic and operational business activities and to reduce and eliminate the risk of losses arising from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Surplus retail and wholesale liabilities were invested in debt securities, including certificates of deposits, government gilts and other high investment grade assets.
J4: Maturities of assets and liabilities and liquidity risk Liquidity risk was defined for Egg as not having sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fell due or if such resources could only be secured at excessive cost.
Egg used various methods including predictions of daily cash positions to monitor and manage liquidity risk.
Maturity mismatches between lending and funding were managed within internal risk policy limits.
It ensured that it held sufficient assets, which were immediately realisable into cash without significant exposure to market risk or costs, to cover a realistic estimate of retail funds that could be withdrawn.
While a significant proportion of retail savings balances were on instant access terms, in practice the majority of such funds represented a relatively stable and consistent funding base for Egg.
The matching and controlled mismatching of the maturities and interest rates of assets and liabilities is fundamental to the management of a bank.
It is unusual for banks ever to be completely matched since business transacted is often of uncertain terms and of different types.
286 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial J statements J4: Maturities of assets and liabilities and liquidity risk continued The following table analyses the assets and liabilities of Egg into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at 31 December 2006 to the contractual maturity date.
At 31 December 2006 m From From From Up to 1 month 3 months 1 year 5 years 1 month to 3 months to 1 year to 5 years and over Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 6 6 Loans and advances to banks 876 2 25 903 Loans and advances to customers 1 2,725 42 1,338 2,087 6,193 Investment securities 466 696 176 266 372 1,976 Derivative financial instruments 61 17 78 Other assets 68 159 41 74 342 Total assets 1,478 3,580 276 1,680 2,484 9,498 Liabilities Deposits by banks 18 516 1,686 2,220 Customer accounts 5,427 3 68 56 5,554 Debt securities issued 553 46 599 Derivative financial instruments 56 98 154 Other liabilities 117 68 43 228 Subordinated liabilities 451 451 Total liabilities 5,618 71 1,180 1,886 451 9,206 Net liquidity gap 4,140 3,509 904 206 2,033 292 J5: Losses on loans and advances The following table details the movements in the allowance for losses on loans and advances to customers held by Egg for the period of ownership in 2007 and 2006.
The aggregate loss on loans at the end of the year and the charge during the period of ownership have been included in the consolidated financial statements.
2007 m 2006 m Balance at the beginning of the year 518 335 Amounts written off 141 201 New and additional provisions 149 384 Balance at time of disposal of Egg Banking plc 526 Balance at the end of the year 518 Impairment losses on loans and advances to customers Where financial assets are carried at amortised cost, the Group measures the amount of the impairment loss by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the present value of its estimated cash flows.
Impairment losses on loans and advances to customers of Egg were based on an actual loss model and all impairments were only being held against debt that had objective evidence of either an individual or a collective impairment.
For individually assessed impaired assets this was established by the delinquency state of debt based on the number of payments they are in arrears.
For collectively assessed impaired assets this assessment was based on the level of accounts operating out of agreed terms showing other objective evidence of impairment from which behaviour analysis impairment is projected by using Markov probability matrices.
287 Notes on the Group financial statements J: Discontinued banking operations continued J6: Market risk Interest rate risk The primary market risk to which Egg was exposed was interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk arose in Egg as a result of fixed rate, variable rate and non-interest bearing assets and liabilities.
Exposure to interest rate movements arose when there was a mismatch between interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities.
The composition of interest rate risk was closely monitored and managed on a day-to-day basis by the treasury function where professional expertise and systems existed to control it.
This was primarily done via asset and liability models that looked at the sensitivity of earnings to movements in interest rates to measure overall exposure which could then be hedged in accordance with the policy limits set by the ALCO.
For the purpose of reducing interest rate risk, Egg used a number of derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements see note G3.
Financial assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit and loss and the weighted average effective interest rate for those balances at 31 December 2006 are provided below: 2006 m % Assets Debt securities available-for-sale 1,935 5.3 Loans and receivables 7,096 9.0 9,031 Liabilities Banking customer accounts 5,554 4.9 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 451 6.2 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2,819 5.4 8,824 Egg also classified 41 million of debt securities as fair value through profit and loss.
See note G2 for further information on interest rate risk.
Currency risk The risks arising from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were managed by a separate treasury function within Egg and within agreed limits set by the ALCO.
During the year, cash flows generated by the foreign currency assets and liabilities were hedged by using derivative contracts to manage exposure to exchange rate fluctuations.
At 31 December 2006, Egg held 357 million of assets and 1,751 million of liabilities with foreign currency exposure.
J7: Credit risk Egg took on exposure to credit risk, which was the risk that a counterparty would be unable to pay amounts in full when due.
To limit this risk, Egg placed limits on the amount of risk accepted in relation to a particular borrower, groups of borrowers, and to particular geographical segments.
The acceptable risk levels were monitored regularly and reviewed where appropriate.
The following table identifies the geographical concentrations of credit risk, stated in terms of total assets and off-balance sheet items, held by Egg at 31 December 2006: 2006 m UK 18,132 Rest of Europe 244 Other 243 Total 18,619 This includes 9,475 million of off-balance sheet items, which mainly relate to unutilised credit limits on credit cards.
288 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Financial J statements J7: Credit risk continued The following is a breakdown of the credit risk borne by Egg for financial assets and off-balance sheet items at 31 December 2006: 2006 m Loans and advances to banks 903 Investment securities 1,970 Loans and advances to customers 6,711 Allowances for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 518 Fair value of derivative assets 78 Off-balance sheet items including unutilised credit limits on credit cards 9,475 Total credit risk net of allowances and provisions 18,619 At 31 December 2006, Egg had certain credit-related commitments in the form of unused credit limits on credit cards of 9,458 million and pre-approved but unused borrowing limits on mortgages and personal loans of 8 million and 9 million respectively which are included in off-balance sheet items above.
Egg was potentially exposed to a loss totalling these amounts, but it was unlikely that such a loss would arise as these credit facilities were granted only on the basis of the customers having achieved certain credit standards.
Additionally, it was unlikely, should all these customers have utilised their credit or borrowing limits, that all of them would default on their debt entirely.
Egg held significant concentrations of credit risk with other financial institutions.
At 31 December 2006, this was estimated at 8.7 billion of which 3.9 billion related to derivative financial instruments and 1.8 billion to credit default swaps.
Egg also had significant credit exposure in asset-backed security products which totalled approximately 403 million at 31 December 2006.
With regard to loans and advances to customers, Egg had significant concentrations of credit risk in respect of its unsecured lending on credit cards, personal loans and mortgage lending secured on property in the UK.
Assets pledged as collateral and securitisation Egg entered into securities lending arrangements, including repurchase agreements and over-the-counter derivative transactions, as part of normal operating activities.
Assets were pledged as collateral to support these activities.
Collateral in respect of repurchase agreements was nil at 31 December 2006.
Collateral in respect of over-the-counter derivative transactions was 29.3 million at 31 December 2006.
See note G4 where amounts relating to Egg have been included in the disclosure of these transactions on a Group basis.
Egg issued debt securities in order to finance certain portfolios of loans and investment assets.
These obligations were secured on Eggs assets.
The securitised assets and the related liabilities were presented gross within the relevant headings in the balance sheet under the gross presentation method.
For further information on Eggs securitisation of credit card receivables, see note G4.
J8: Capital position At 31 December 2006 Egg had a capital surplus of 210 million over required regulatory capital levels.
