Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty-seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 159 New Bond Street, London W1S 2UD on Wednesday 7 May 2008 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 13 are ordinary resolutions requiring a majority of more than 50%.
Resolution 13 is an ordinary resolution but is classified by Article 61 of the Articles of Association of the Company as non-routine, special business.
Resolutions 14 to 17 are special resolutions requiring a majority of 75% or more.
2007 Report and Accounts 1 To adopt the Report of the Directors and the Audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
2 To approve the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 44 to 52.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the preparation of this report which must be approved by shareholders in general meeting.
This does not affect the directors entitlements to remuneration and the result of this resolution is advisory only.
Final dividend 3 To approve the final dividend of 25p per share for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The payment of the final dividend requires the approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Election and re-election of directors 4 To elect Mr D T D Harrel as a director of the Company.
5 To elect Mr J M May as a director of the Company.
6 To re-elect Mr I M Buckley as a director of the Company.
7 To re-elect Mr P D G Chavasse as a director of the Company.
8 To re-elect Mr P G Pearson Lund as a director of the Company.
9 To re-elect Mr G M Powell as a director of the Company.
Biographical details of the directors seeking election or re-election can be found on pages 32 to 34.
David Harrel and John May were appointed to the Board on 1 December 2007.
Article 95 of the Companys Articles of Association requires that each director who has not been elected or re-elected by the members at either of the two immediately previous Annual General Meetings shall retire from office and seek election or re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation of the Board and individual appraisal by the Chairman, all directors seeking election or re-election continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Auditors 10 To appoint  LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting before which accounts are laid.
11 To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors.
The auditors of a public company must be appointed for each financial year at the meeting at which the accounts for the previous financial year are laid.
Political donations 12 That in accordance with section 366 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company and any company which is or becomes a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this resolution relates be and is hereby authorised: a to make Political Donations to political parties, Political Organisations or independent election candidates: and b to incur Political Expenditure Provided that: i the authority conferred by this resolution shall commence on the date on which it is passed and expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution: ii the aggregate amount of such donations and expenditure made by the Company shall not exceed 50,000: and iii in this resolution the expressions Political Donation, Political Organisation and Political Expenditure have the meanings set out in sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.
121 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Section 378 of the Companies Act 2006 prohibits the Company and its subsidiaries from making donations of more than 5,000 in any twelve month period to a political party or other political organisations or to an independent election candidate unless they have been authorised to make donations by the Companys shareholders.
The Company has a policy that it does not make donations to political parties, political organisations or independent election candidates and the Board will not use these authorities, if given, to do so.
However, the Companies Act 2006 includes broad and ambiguous definitions of political donations and expenditure, which may have the effect of covering some normal business activities, and therefore presents potential for inadvertent or technical breach.
The Board therefore considers that it would be prudent to obtain shareholder approval for the Company to make donations to political parties, political organisations and independent election candidates and to incur political expenditure up to the specified limit in the forthcoming year.
Authority to allot relevant securities 13 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in the said section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 700,000.
Such authority shall expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution.
Notwithstanding such expiry, the authority shall still permit the Company to make allotments of relevant securities in respect of offers or agreements made before such expiry, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
All previous authorities to directors to allot relevant securities are hereby revoked without prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant thereto.
This ordinary resolution is proposed annually in order to provide a measure of authority to the directors to allot ordinary shares, limited to approximately 33% of the issued share capital of the Company at 5 March 2008, in circumstances defined by the resolution so as to enable them to respond, in the interests of the Company, to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
Power to waive pre-emption rights 14 a That the directors be and they are hereby empowered in accordance with section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of the Act, payment for which is to be wholly in cash: i in connection with a rights issue: and ii otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 100,000 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment.
References herein to the allotment of equity securities shall include the sale of treasury shares within the meaning of section 162A of the Act.
b The power in paragraph a above, insofar as it relates to the allotment of equity securities rather than the sale of treasury shares, is granted pursuant to the resolution conferring authority under section 80 of the Act passed on the date hereof.
c For the purposes of this resolution rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to holders other than the Company on the register on a record date fixed by the directors of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings for which purpose holdings in certificated and uncertificated form may be treated as separate holdings but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory.
d The powers given by this resolution shall expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution.
Notwithstanding such expiry, the authority shall still permit the Company to make allotments of relevant securities in respect of offers or agreements made before such expiry which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
All previous disapplications of section 89 1 of the Act are hereby revoked without prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant thereto.
This first special resolution seeks authority, limited to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 5 March 2008, regarding allotments, other than to members proportionately to their respective shareholdings and for which payment is to be wholly in cash.
Additionally, the resolution seeks authority for the Company to sell or otherwise deal with treasury shares being shares acquired and held by the Company without necessarily involving shareholders.
Over the three years to 31 December 2007, shares with a nominal value of 91,056 were allotted for cash, representing 4.3% of the issued share capital at that date.
This compares with institutional shareholder guideline limits of 7.5% in any three-year period.
122 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Renewal of this limited authority will enable the directors to issue shares, in the interests of the Company, in response to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
For transactions of a substantial nature involving the allotment of shares, it is normal for the UK Listing Authority or company law to require shareholder approval for the specific transaction notwithstanding this general authority.
Authority to purchase ordinary shares 15 That the directors be and they are hereby granted pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of Association of the Company general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined by section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of any of its ordinary shares of 5p each upon and subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired is 2,000,000 shares being approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 5 March 2008 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case, exclusive of expenses : and d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract for the purchase of ordinary shares which would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may complete a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
This second special resolution is to renew the authority granted to the directors at the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2007 to purchase the Companys own ordinary shares under certain stringent conditions.
The authority will be used only when the directors consider that it would be advantageous to the Company and the effect would be to enhance earnings per share.
Shares purchased will be held as treasury shares as defined in section 162A of the Companies Act 1985.
At 5 March 2008 there were options outstanding to subscribe for 1,049,099 new ordinary shares in the Company.
This represents approximately 2.5% of the issued ordinary capital of the Company at that date and would represent approximately 2.6% if the authority to buy back shares under this resolution were used in full.
Amendments to the Articles of Association 16 That amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company be and hereby are made to reflect the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 as set out in the document produced to the Meeting marked A and signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification.
A copy of the current Articles of Association marked to show the changes being proposed by this resolution will be available for inspection as noted in the Notes below.
This third special resolution amends the Articles of Association with immediate effect in order to make various amendments which are either required by or consequential to provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which are already in force at the date of the Meeting.
These include the following: i section 301 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that both the requirements under Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association in relation to resolutions and meetings be satisfied before a resolution can be validly passed at general meetings.
In light of this dual requirement, it is proposed that a new provision be added to ensure that, in the case of any conflict between the Companys Articles of Association and Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006, the latter prevails: ii it is proposed that the provisions in the Articles of Association dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings be amended to conform to the new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened with 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required: iii the references to the Companies Act 1985 in the Articles of Association are to be updated where necessary with references to the new corresponding sections in the Companies Act 2006: and iv section 284 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands and on a poll whilst the Companys current Articles of Association only permit a proxy to vote on a poll.
It is proposed that the Articles of Association are amended to conform with section 284 of the Companies Act 2006.
123 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Directors interests 17 That, with effect from 1 October 2008, the Articles of Association of the Company be amended in accordance with the document produced to the Meeting marked B and signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to authorise a directors conflict or potential conflict of interest where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
This fourth special resolution amends the Companys Articles of Association with effect on and from 1 October 2008 to give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
These include that only independent directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently if they think fit.
From 1 October 2008, it is also proposed to include provisions relating to confidential information to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is also proposed to include new provisions relating to directors duties to disclose interests in proposed and existing transactions or arrangements with the Company.
By Order of the Board Richard Loader Company Secretary Registered Ofce: 159 New Bond Street, London W1S 2UD 27 March 2008 124 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Notes 1 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and subject to the provisions for proxies, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 5 May 2008 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6pm on the day two days prior to the day fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Subsequent changes to the entries on the register will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
2 Members entitled to attend, speak and vote are entitled, if they so wish, to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their stead provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member.
Proxy forms should be completed and returned to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA by no later than 12.00 noon on 5 May 2008.
The completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting if you so wish.
The vote withheld option is provided on the proxy card to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 7 May 2008 and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti ID 7RA01 by no later than 12.00 noon on 5 May 2008.
No message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which our registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
5 The statement of rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
6 As at 12 March 2008 being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this Notice the Company's issued share capital consists of 42,689,942 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 12 March 2008 are 42,689,942.
125 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 7 A memorandum of the terms of all contracts of service between Directors and the Company or any of its subsidiaries is available for inspection at the Registered Office during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded.
The memorandum will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting, and during the meeting.
In addition, a copy of the revised Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by resolution 16 together with a copy of the revised Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by resolution 17 will be available for inspection at the Registered Office during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from 27 March 2008 to the date of the meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting, and during the meeting.
8 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
126 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
