The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 42 5.
Maintaining performance across ourdivisions Each of our seven operating divisions consists of a number of businesses and major contracts.
Every business is aligned with the Groups overall objectives and strategy.
Every business works to an annual business plan which sets out financial targets and the research, development and resources required to meet or exceed the plan.
Performance is reviewed monthly and adjustments to spend, activity and resources are made where necessary.
Transforming Salfords regeneration UrbanVision, our unique joint venture with Salford City Council and construction group Morrison, supports the citys continuing regeneration.
Responsible for planning and business control, engineering and highways, property and business development support, facilities management and building design, it has played a key part in a fourfold increase in investment in the citys roads to around 7m a year.
400 council employees seconded Capitas property consultancy Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 The divisional structure supports a robust, individual focus for each business while providing ready access to the Groups wider resources, expertise and economies of scale.
The common aim is to deliver service excellence and generate profitable growth through: A. Aligning each business with the Groups overall objectives and strategy B.
Investing in service and product development and appropriate sales and marketing activities C. Maintaining a simple, pragmatic divisional structure to share resources and economies of scale.
80 new jobs By creating a more flexible workforce and enabling staff to work more closely together, UrbanVision has made considerable efficiency savings which can be reinvested in further service improvement.
Through partnership with our property consultancy, Capita Symonds, UrbanVision has helped the Council cut property costs while New procurement framework improving the office environment, boosting staff morale and supporting recruitment and training.
It has also won new work designing flagship schools under the Building Schools for the Future BSF initiative.
When the Councils landscape design team was seconded to UrbanVision, it was short of work and jobs were at risk.
Two years on, it has a full workload and a good forward pipeline.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 44 Our business goal and strategy Maintaining performance across our divisions We maintain a simple, B.
Individual C. A flexible divisional pragmatic divisional business tactics operating structure structure that delivers our With a focus on continuous growth, each We have created a pragmatic, flexible business undertakes appropriate tactics structure which is regularly refreshed as Group strategy to achieve or maintain market leading the Group develops.
Research and development contracts and managers across the A. Alignment with initiatives underpin the constant divisions to ensure the best match of Group strategy development of products and services leadership and resources as the Group The operating divisions and the businesses to meet the current and future needs of grows.
The businesses benefit from the within them all follow the Group strategy clients.
Businesses adopt the most powerful combination of individual focus of securing strong, sustainable growth, appropriate marketing and sales activities and the ability to reach out across the both organically and by acquiring to address the characteristics of their Group to share operational skills and complementary businesses.
resources, benefit from economies of scale, create and deploy innovation, and harness Each business produces its own annual the best of ICT and business processes.
business plan outlining specific strategies and considerations and setting performance We are currently organised into seven targets for the following year.
The MOB operating divisions, plus a Group Sales and process described on page 16 ensures Marketing Division.
Each operating division regular monitoring and reporting of brings together activities with similar performance against targets and is an operating models or client bases.
Each effective forum for planning ahead, solving major contract secured by the Group sales issues and sharing expertise and support.
team is managed within the division which best meets its operational, regulatory and management requirements.
Group-wide support services, such as finance, legal and commercial, property management, procurement, health and safety and environment and HR, report directly to Group Board Executive Directors to ensure robust control, consistent standards and shared benefits across the Group.
Insurance & Specialist Services TV Licensing Integrated HR solutions Insurance services Criminal Records Bureau Outsourced solutions Resourcing TfL Congestion Charging Veredus Specialist services Central government services Capita Symonds Teceris Administration services Legal services 4.
Financial Services Business travel Occupational health Shareholder services Offshore Customer contact centres Financial administration services eircom Trust services 2.
Professional Services DSGi Sector Software services Private sector 7.
Life & Pensions Education Service Birmingham Local government Life & pensions Harrow Council Local government services Capita Hartshead IT services Strategic children's services SIP services Mission assurance & testing Local government partnerships Advisory services Blackburn with Darwen BC Communications Swindon BC Southampton CC Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 Progress across our divisions in 2007 1.
Professional Services contains all of our major central government contracts and our comprises our local government services and all our software offshore operations.
businesses as well as Capita Strategic Childrens Services.
2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Turnover 302.4 300.9 Turnover 264.3 191.7 Operating profit 46.6 46.6 Operating profit 48.1 37.4 Operating margin 15.4% 15.5% Operating margin 18.2% 19.5% Capex 9.9 16.6 Capex 8.1 6.7 2007 developments 2007 developments p TV Licensing: Great strides have been taken to reduce the cost of operation.
p Local Government Services: Continued its strong performance in 2007, More usable interfaces have been designed to improve the human interaction successfully completing Phase 2 of our 10 year partnership with Swindon BC with legacy IT systems.
Intuitive and windows-based interfaces will cut down and becoming preferred bidder for Hart DC, a 10 year deal worth approx the time spent training newcomers on the system by over 70% from seven 10m.
We also began our 15 year partnership with Southampton CC in October.
weeks to two, and will improve transaction handling times by over 20%.
In the Our service offering has been expanded to meet the growing demand from back office, intelligent workflow systems have further enhanced the ability to clients, in particular for customer services and procurement activities.
transition non client facing work to Capita's offshore facility in Mumbai.
This p Local Government Software Services: Our local government service and innovative system has increased the automation of simple transactions.
These software businesses continue to work closely together to help clients increase initiatives have increased productivity and delivered cost efficiencies.
operational efficiencies to meet the challenges set out in the Comprehensive Spending Review.
We continue to set the highest standards for our products p TfL Congestion Charging: The Western Extension Zone WEZ was effectively and have become the first major supplier to local government to achieve the and smoothly implemented on 19 February 2007 and we have continued to Payment Card Industry Data Security standard PCI DSS for our payment deliver good service across the extended zone.
The contract to deliver the management products and services.
congestion charging scheme across London was not re-awarded to Capita and the contract will finish at the end of November 2009.
The Low Emission Zone p Childrens Services: We have successfully brought together and refocused our LEZ was successfully implemented on 4 February 2008. education service offering in response to the Every Child Matters Change for Children programme and are recognised as leading providers of consultancy, p CRB: With over 15m disclosures issued and 92% customer satisfaction, the CRB interim management and software support to children's services authorities.
Capita partnership is in its fifth year.
We continue to enhance the service by We have increased our market share in existing markets and entered new progressing phase two of the online tracking service and bringing additional data markets such as software services for Childrens Social Care, Early Years sources into the PLX checking process, which now totals over 60m records.
The provision through our acquisition of CPFR and Learning Gateways in schools contract was awarded silver at the Kablenet government innovation awards and providing pupils, staff and parents with secure remote access to information.
gained the prestigious ISO14001 environmental management accreditation.
Additionally, 94% of our further and higher education clients renewed their p Capita BusinessTravel: Following the rebrand in January 2007, from Lonsdale software licenses for a further three years.
Travel to Capita BusinessTravel, the business has secured new sales contracts p Private sector software: The benefit of integrating our three recent acquisitions worth 34m and retained 100% of its top 10 customers who undertook formal Quay back office and client relationships, Webline quotation and ebusiness tender processes as contracts expired in 2007.
New and renewed contracts have and Synaptic life, pensions and investment research was demonstrated in come from public and private sector businesses such asYell, Alfred McAlpine, 2007 with the release of the Enabler modular website for independent financial Royal Mail Group and OGCbuying.
A strong service reputation and advisers IFAs.
By combining and integrating these companies services, we can new operational technology and procedures have played key roles in this success.
enable IFAs to enhance their client service and demonstrate compliance with The new online booking technology has been well received by customers.
p Offshore Services: Our offshore operation grew strongly in the year and played a key role in securing major contracts, including with Resolution and 2008 priorities Prudential.
It is now the Groups largest multi-client service centre, employing 1,300 staff and processing more than 1m transactions a month.
It is fully p Maintain market share in the local government and education software representative of the Group, servicing both public and private sector contracts markets through continued development of new and innovative products to and supporting a number of Group businesses.
keep pace with changing requirements p Expand software services private sector offering and increase leverage from 2008 priorities other divisions p Continued delivery of operational excellence for clients, thereby strengthening p Continue to enhance market leading position in local government through client relationships and gaining vital references for future opportunities joint initiatives with other Capita businesses and through partnerships p Continued focus on introducing innovation and alternative service delivery p Continue to explore opportunities and synergies across private sector software models, including offshoring, to increase quality and efficiency across contracts and document management and imaging services p Focus on employee retention and training to maintain consistency of service p Continue to build on the success of our National Strategies contract and for our long term clients further strengthen our relationship with the DCSF.
p Closer working with the Group Sales Team to identify new sales opportunities, extend relationships and explore service delivery models.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 46 Our business goal and strategy Maintaining performance across our divisions Progress across our divisions in 2007 3.
HRSolutions & PropertyConsultancy comprises our resourcing and property services operations.
To provide greater transparency they are reported separately.
2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m HR Solutions Property Consultancy Turnover 245.9 205.9 Turnover 231.9 199.4 Operating profit 23.4 17.7 Operating profit 19.3 12.8 Operating margin 9.5% 8.6% Operating margin 8.3% 6.4% Capex 3.9 4.4 Capex 2.7 3.1 2007 developments 2007 developments p Integrated HR Solutions: In 2007 we continued building on the foundations p Growth: We are now the UKs sixth largest multidisciplinary property and developed in 2006.
The BBC HR and Northern Ireland Civil Service contracts are infrastructure consultancy.
New HR outsourcing contracts with Swindon p New business: we secured framework wins from Network Rail, TfL, OGC, BC, Southampton CC and Leicester and Rutland NHS Consortium went live.
Environment Agency, Exxon Mobil, London Development Agency LDA and Our focus remains on developing further our strong HR capability across HR the Olympic Development Agency ODA and were appointed as architect strategy, resourcing and payroll administration, learning and development and for BAAs 300m Heathrow Terminal 5 Concourse C. outplacement, positioning us uniquely in this market.
p Durham City Council: We secured a two-year extension to our Civil Following the acquisition of NHS Partners from North Bristol NHS Trust, this Engineering Services strategic alliance with the Council.
business is focused on three areas: employee and patient surveys, remuneration strategies and HR information service.
The acquisition complements our HR p Wembley National Stadium: We are project managers for Wembley business strategy and gives us a further foothold in the extensive NHS market.
National Stadium, which hosted its first FA Cup Final in May 2007. p Resourcing businesses: These continue to perform well.
Capita Resourcing p Integration: We consolidated our architectural services under the Capita has experienced very good growth, successfully winning a new managed Architecture brand and successfully integrated some 200 staff as part of service contract with EDF Energy and seeing strong growth across its niche Group strategic partnerships with Southampton CC and Swindon BC.
p Organisation: We restructured and strengthened the Executive Board under p Assessment and Testing: This specialist business has developed further longer new leadership.
term contracts, supporting clients such as BAA.
p Recognition: We were listed as One to Watch in the 2007 Sunday Times p Capita Education Resourcing: Continued to make steady progress in 2007 Best Companies To Work For Survey.
with an increase in Teacher Supply days, particularly in its Further Education Division which increased volume by 69%.
2008 priorities p Capita Recruitment Vetting Service: Had another very successful year with p Continue to work closely with Group sales team to provide added value growth of 96%.
It is now the second largest CRB Umbrella Body in the UK.
integral propositions as part of wider transformation partnership opportunities p Veredus: Our senior search and selection brand had a very strong, profitable p Build on success in selling standalone property propositions to Group clients, year across both public and private sectors.
particularly in local government p Continue to foster close working across property and infrastructure disciplines 2008 priorities to accelerate organic growth p Manage the smooth transfer and implementation of new integrated HR p Focus on senior-level relationships with top 30 clients contracts p Increase presence on procurement frameworks to expand access to p Develop additional products and services to penetrate new and existing opportunities across wider markets.
clients, and make further acquisitions to develop or consolidate our position p Promote our offshore capability where appropriate to clients p Support Group sales team to sell integrated HR propositions as separate contracts and as part of a wider BPO partnership p Continue to seek synergies across resourcing businesses and focus on managed resourcing partnerships to secure longer term relationships.
Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 4.
Life & Pensions contains our shareholder, financial and trust administration and comprises all our life & pensions businesses including open and treasury services businesses.
closed book, occupational pensions and SIPP administration.
2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Turnover 156.9 120.8 Turnover 255.5 184.3 Operating profit 37.3 31.5 Operating profit 31.6 22.7 Operating margin 23.8% 26.1% Operating margin 12.4% 12.3% Capex 3.8 3.6 Capex 23.2 18.4 2007 developments 2007 developments p Another excellent year of growth: Revenue growth was strong across all p L&P outsourcing: We are the leading outsourcing provider in this area with our operations for instance Capita Registrars turnover grew by 22% to 61m.
With the start of the Prudential contract in April We processed 6,300 corporate action events with a combined value of 51bn, 2008, we will be administering 22m life, savings and pensions policies.
issued over 7m cheques and administered 130 IPOs gaining 54% market share.
This market continues to be very active.
p Organic growth: Strong organic growth was driven by new products such p New business: During the year we have successfully transitioned the as NHS Membership and governance services, Tracing Solutions and SAYE Co-operative Insurance and Resolution businesses into Capita.
Both these administration and the renewal of long term contracts with two of our major contracts have performed well in the first few months.
p IT development: We continue to work closely with Mastek on developing the p Official Solicitor & Public Trustee: We successfully implemented our next generation of the Elixir software that is currently used across a number outsourcing contract.
The new version will become available in 2009. p Combining Group skills: our joined-up approach with Life & Pensions was p SIPPs: In recognition of the increasing influence of key IFA groups and a key differentiator in winning the Co-operative Insurance contract.
Over 150 distribution as a whole in the UK life and pensions market, we have extended former Co-operative staff transferred to our Fund Administration operations.
our open funds access platform supporting our SIPPs business into a more generic WRAP-based capability.
This allows key distribution firms to have p New start-up businesses: We opened operations in the Isle of Man straight-through access to a broad range of providers and funds.
Registration, Guernsey Fund Administration and Dublin Trustee Services.
p Capita Hartshead: Our business continues to perform strongly.
Recent p Acquisitions: During the year we acquired the Trust & Fiduciary operations of acquisitions have significantly increased our actuarial capacity, which PwC Channel Islands and Global Fund Administration in Gibraltar.
will attract new clients and extend the range of services to existing clients.
p Offshore: As part of our continuing collaboration with offshore colleagues, we designed and implemented a new product specifically to be 100% delivered 2008 priorities from our Indian operations.
p Maintain high levels of compliance across the business and develop solutions p Growing market demand: Increasing complexity in design and delivery of which help clients meet increasingly complex regulatory requirements products, such as the increasing use of derivatives in unit trusts, and increasing p Achieve further economies of scale by processing a greater number of contracts regulatory complexity such as the Market Abuse Directive, 3rd EU Auto through our existing infrastructure Money Laundering, MiFID, TCF initiatives and new Companies Act continue to provide impetus for outsourcing in the industry.
p Achieve a smooth transition of services from Prudential p Continue to extend our trading platform across multiple distributor groups and 2008 priorities UK blue chip providers p Maintain high levels of regulatory compliance across the business and p Continue to develop our technology platforms to help clients bring new continue to develop solutions to help our customers comply with their products to market faster regulatory obligations p Continue to build offshore capability into existing contracts and new proposals p Develop and implement new and more advanced administration systems to reduce risk and increase efficiency via greater straight-through processing p Continue to grow our presence in occupational benefit consultancy and and automation actuarial services.
p Drive margin expansion by relocating jobs to lower-cost delivery areas in England and India and rationalising operational infrastructure p Pursue further appropriate acquisitions, including selective investigation of some Western European jurisdictions.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 48 Our business goal and strategy Maintaining performance across our divisions Progress across our divisions in 2007 6.
ICT & Advisory Services comprises specialist services and outsourced solutions for the contains our ICT business which supports the Groups operations insurance market, occupational health services and outsourced and external clients as well as our advisory business.
2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Turnover 324.5 283.2 Turnover 291.9 252.3 Operating profit 36.0 31.3 Operating profit 29.0 25.1 Operating margin 11.1% 11.1% Operating margin 9.9% 9.9% Capex 7.2 5.3 Capex 9.1 4.9 2007 developments 2007 developments p Insurance outsourcing: We have recently been selected by Marsh Ltd as p Service Birmingham: ICT transformation substantially completed, resulting in a preferred partner to transform and deliver its back office administration services, robust infrastructure and delivery of IT services that consistently meet target based in Norwich.
As part of this agreement, 650 staff based in Norwich and KPIs.
Good progress in delivery of Business Transformation programmes with work based in Pune, India, will transfer to Capita.
Corporate Services Transformation Programme went live in October and is on target to deliver cashable savings of 28m in 2007 08. p Acquisition: The successful integration of CMGL acquired in April has made Over 500 Service Birmingham employees are now co-located in a single stateus clear leader in providing support services to the London insurance market.
In the annual Computing Awards we won IT Professional of This is enabling us to grow revenues strongly across our core propositions of the Year and IT Outsourced Project.
BPO, run-off management services and consultancy.
p Harrow Council: Just two years into our 10-year partnership, we have delivered p Insurance distribution: A series of new business successes drove organic growth 37m worth of savings against our target of 45m savings across the life of the of the policy books under management by some 40%.
This has been achieved through a series of IT projects including delivering SAP financial, MI and CRM systems in just 11 months in tandem with procurement p DSG international plc: We generated 120m of sales for DSGi over the year and process efficiency initiatives.
In addition we designed and delivered a contact and this is set to grow following an agreement to handle Currys store telephone centre and one-stop-shop, enhancing the Councils frontline services.
We retained the Best Outsourcing Partnership award at the CCA Awards and were runner-up for Best Outsourced Contact Centre.
p Capita IT Services: This business continues to support both external clients and internal contracts and businesses.
Particular success was demonstrated in local p eircom: Our contracts with eircom continue to develop and grow.
Our successful government by the addition of IT support for the Swindon and Southampton delivery has been reflected in further industry awards in 2007 including Team partnerships and a contract extension at South Northants DC.
In addition, the Leader of the Year at the prestigious Contact Centre Management Association business continues to develop specific propositions and services to meet market awards.
demand such as service portfolio management and virtualised hosting solutions.
p Occupational Health: This business continues to perform well, winning p Mission Assurance and Testing: In a record year, Missions recruitment business contracts with a number of new corporate clients and extending its largest achieved its largest ever number of permanent placements and increased the single contract with HMRC for a further two years.
number of contractors deployed by 71%.
Its consultancy business won significant new business, particularly in the insurance and retail financial services 2008 priorities sectors, and extended existing internal and external client relationships.
Mission secured its first substantial multi-year managed services contract and first full p Maintain high levels of compliance across the regulated and legal businesses outsourcing contract involving the transfer of client staff.
and develop solutions which help clients meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements p Capita Advisory Services: After a change of management and refocusing of services this business achieved an uplift in trading in the second half of the year.
It is p Focus on core markets of insurance distribution, claims services, commercial now well placed for 2008.
It secured new client engagements with Breckland DC, insurance and BPO to drive organic growth through relationships, market Kingston-Upon-Thames BC, NHS Institute and NottinghamTrent University.
presence and quality services p Capita Communications: This new business was formed through the integration p Enhance margins through efficient use of technology, management, locations and refocusing of our design, print and fulfilment operations to deliver including India and cross-selling services across the integrated insurance outsourced marketing solutions.
business p Continue investment in enhanced technology and shared technology platforms 2008 priorities p Position the business to build on the successful services and sales successes p Continue to deliver and expand local government transformation partnerships of the past two years in core markets, particularly insurance broking and distribution.
p Continue to support Birmingham City Council in achieving its Business Transformation objectives, establish sales from Service Birmingham to other public sector organisations and achieve ISO 2000 accreditation for Service Birmingham p Continue to widen and integrate our portfolio of consultancy and support services to meet client demand p Continue development of shared ICT platforms and infrastructure p Continue to develop and enhance Group-wide ICT to support the Groups expansion and provide scalable solutions for additional major contracts.
Governance The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49 Governance 50 Board members 52 Corporate governance Biographies of the Group Board and This section explains our corporate governance and Divisional Executive Board members decision making processes 57 Directors remuneration report The remuneration section explains our pay policies and contains details of the salaries and benefits received by our Directors in 2007 Accounts 64 Consolidated income statement 101 Independent auditors report to the members of The Capita Group Plc 65 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 102 Five year summary 66 Consolidated balance sheet 103 Company balance sheet 67 Consolidated cash flow statement 104 Notes to the accounts 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 114 Principal Group investments 115 Independent auditors report to the members of The Capita Group Plc 116 Useful information for shareholders
