The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 104 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounts comply with the following new Financial Reporting Standards and Urgent Issues Task Force abstracts issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board.
Adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial position of the Company although they did give rise to additional disclosures.
Amendment to FRS 26 IAS39 : Financial Instruments: Measurement: Recognition and Derecognition This amendment has the aim of keeping the text of the UK Standard in line with that of the International Standard IAS 39 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Amendment to FRS 17: Retirement Benefits The Company has elected to early adopt this amendment which has the effect of replacing the existing disclosure requirements of FRS 17 with those of International Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 6 April 2007.
FRS 29 IFRS 7 : Financial Instruments: Disclosures This standard requires disclosures that enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the significance of the companys financial instruments and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
As FRS 29 is a disclosure standard, there is no impact of that change in accounting policy on the Companys financial position.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed by paragraph 2D b of FRS 29 not to make these disclosures in its own entitys financial statements as the consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures for the Group.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. b Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3 10 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 4 5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease c Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying value of fixed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
d Pension schemes The Company maintains a number of contracted-out defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Company.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the Company, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
e Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
f Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, taxation, with the following exceptions: provision is made for taxation on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to taxation only where the replacement assets are sold provision is made for deferred taxation that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred taxation is measured on an undiscounted basis at the taxation rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on taxation rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
