The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 104 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounts comply with the following new Financial Reporting Standards and Urgent Issues Task Force abstracts issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board.
Adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial position of the Company although they did give rise to additional disclosures.
Amendment to FRS 26 IAS39 : Financial Instruments: Measurement: Recognition and Derecognition This amendment has the aim of keeping the text of the UK Standard in line with that of the International Standard IAS 39 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Amendment to FRS 17: Retirement Benefits The Company has elected to early adopt this amendment which has the effect of replacing the existing disclosure requirements of FRS 17 with those of International Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 6 April 2007.
FRS 29 IFRS 7 : Financial Instruments: Disclosures This standard requires disclosures that enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the significance of the companys financial instruments and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
As FRS 29 is a disclosure standard, there is no impact of that change in accounting policy on the Companys financial position.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed by paragraph 2D b of FRS 29 not to make these disclosures in its own entitys financial statements as the consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures for the Group.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. b Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3 10 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 4 5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease c Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying value of fixed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
d Pension schemes The Company maintains a number of contracted-out defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Company.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the Company, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
e Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
f Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, taxation, with the following exceptions: provision is made for taxation on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to taxation only where the replacement assets are sold provision is made for deferred taxation that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred taxation is measured on an undiscounted basis at the taxation rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on taxation rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 105 1 Accounting policies continued g Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related investments.
h National Insurance on share option gains National Insurance on outstanding share options at the year end has been grossed up and shown as a provision and a receivable on the balance sheet.
i Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation A separate note dealing with the disclosures of FRS 29 has not been presented as provided by paragraph 2D b of FRS 29.
The consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures of IFRS 7 for the Group.
j Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
k Share based payments The Company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Subsidiary undertakings of the Company reimburse the Company through the inter Company account for charges attributable to their employees participating in the Companys share schemes.
