The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 28 February 2008.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 3741.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 103113. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and the pension assets and liabilities have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group.
They did, however, give rise to additional disclosures: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The Group has also early adopted the following IFRIC interpretations.
Adoption of these interpretations did not have any effect on the financial position of the Group.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The principal effects of these changes are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure This standard requires the Group to make disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the significance of the Groups financial instruments and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
As IFRS 7 is a disclosure standard, there is no impact other than enhanced disclosure, with comparative information being revised where needed.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives This interpretation establishes that the date to assess the existence of an embedded derivative is the date an entity first becomes a party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
As the Group has no embedded derivative requiring separation from the host contract, adoption of this interpretation has had no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment As of 1 January 2007, the Group adopted IFRIC 10 which requires that an entity must not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
As the Group had no impairment losses previously reversed, the interpretation had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The Group has elected to early adopt IFRIC Interpretation 11 as of 1 January 2007, insofar as it applies to consolidated financial statements.
This interpretation requires arrangements whereby an employee is granted rights to an entitys equity instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled scheme, even if the entity buys the instruments from another party, or the shareholders provide the equity instruments themselves.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The Group has elected to early adopt IFRIC Interpretation 14 as of 1 January 2007.
This interpretation provides guidance on how to assess the limit in IAS 19 Employee Benefits on the amount of surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains that when a plan is operated in an environment of statutory or contractual minimum funding requirements, and there are restrictions over the amounts that the employer can recover from the plan, an obligation to pay contributions may give rise to a liability additional to the liability that is recognised in respect of the IAS 19 deficit.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 69 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued e Revenue There have been no changes in the Groups accounting policies for revenue in the year: however the Group feels that it would be helpful to provide enhanced disclosure in respect of its accounting policies in this area.
Revenue is earned within the United Kingdom, Europe, India and South-East Asia.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Other than in respect of service contracts, described below, and where the Group is acting as lessor see v, revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of value added tax.
For time and materials contracts which are those where Capita provide staff to customers at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis of time worked.
Revenue on contracts where there is an ongoing service e. g. life and pensions policy administration, hardware maintenance is recognised over the period during which the service is provided.
Contracts where there are distinguishable components are separated and revenue is recognised individually on the basis that each component can be reliably estimated.
Revenues and costs relating to each element are recognised simultaneously.
f Service contracts i Brownfield outsourcing contracts Brownfield contracts are where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
For brownfield contracts all costs incurred prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents fee income in respect of services provided.
ii Greenfield outsourcing contracts A greenfield contract is one in which an entirely new service is being established for a customer.
For these contracts no profit is recognised until service delivery commences and is being invoiced.
Upon commencement, revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of services provided.
Direct incremental costs incurred on the contract prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the contract, excluding any overheads, are included in prepayments and amortised over the life of the contract.
On some contracts, non-refundable payments are received, prior to full service commencement, on the achievement of agreed contract delivery milestones.
These are recognised as revenue when earned.
iii Property consultancy and transformation contracts Revenue represents the sales value of work done in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year-end.
Profits are recognised on long term contracts where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
In calculating this the percentage of completion method is used based on the proportion of costs incurred to the total estimated cost.
Cost includes direct staff costs and outlays.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately such losses are forecast.
In respect of construction contracts, gross amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
g Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro, Indian rupee, Malaysian ringgit, South Korean won and the Philippine peso.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued h Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and equipment 3 10 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year in which the item is fide-recognised.
i Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are currently recognised as an expense when incurred in accordance with the benchmark accounting treatment under IAS 23. j Goodwill Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at this date.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
This was changed on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 is, on acquisition, initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves and does not get recycled through the income statement.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
k Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2006 or 2007.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
Gains or losses arising from fide-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is fide-recognised.
Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled as follows: Brands are amortised evenly over their useful economic lives of 5 and 10 years Software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years Contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 10 years Customer lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years Other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 6.5 years.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued l Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
m Investments and other financial assets All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management strategy.
n Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts, except where no right of set-off exists.
p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value.
After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are fide-recognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
q Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
r Surplus properties The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
s Pre-contract costs Pre-contract award bidding costs are expensed as incurred.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued t Pension schemes The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement for the year when they are due.
In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in a number of other defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes are conditional on employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average vesting period.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest cost element of the defined benefit pension charge represents a change in the present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In respect of three of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised in equity through the statement of recognised income and expense such that the balance sheet reflects the schemes surplus or liability at the balance sheet date.
Current and past service cost are charged to operating profit with the interest cost, net of expected return on assets in the plans, included within administrative expenses.
The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
u Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
v Leasing The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 73 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued w Income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
x Share based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over the fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2006. y Participation in Lloyds market syndicate Capita provides run off administrative services to Lloyds syndicates.
On occasion where there is a commercial driver to do so, the Group will take an equity holding in a Corporate Member a limited liability company operating in the Lloyds market.
The Group has treated this arrangement as an investment in a joint venture, whereby the Group and the other venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
The Group's investment in the joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method the investment in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity.
The income statement reflects, where material, the share of the results of operations of the joint venture.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
The Corporate Members share of the assets and liabilities of the syndicate and the quota share arrangement are further disclosed in note 16 to these financial statements.
