The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15 Impairment of goodwill continued The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were as follows: Profit before interest and taxation Discount rates Rates of growth in CGUs for the years 2 to 5.
Profit before interest and taxation The profit before interest and taxation is based on the assumption that future margins will remain at the levels currently being achieved.
Discount rate The discount rate reflects managements estimate of the gross cost of capital employed for the groups of CGUs listed above.
This is the benchmark established to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Rates of growth in cash generating units beyond the budget period Growth rate assumptions are based on, as far as possible, published industry research.
Goodwill impairment Management believes that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would cause any of the identified CGUs to become impaired.
16 Financial assets 2007 2006 Current m m Cash flow hedges 0.9 0.9 2007 2006 m m Non Current financial assets 1 Available for sale investments 0.3 0.3 2 Investment loan 29.1 12.5 3 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 25.4 19.8 4 Cash flow hedges 4.7 4 Currency swaps 1.0 4 Interest rate swap 0.1 5 Investment in a joint venture 60.6 32.6 1 Available for sale assets includes investments in unlisted ordinary shares.
The unlisted ordinary shares, for which there is no immediately identifiable market and which have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate, are carried at cost less provision for any impairment.
2 The Group has entered into a funding arrangement with Optima Legal Services Limited OLSL and during the year has provided it with an additional 16.6m 2006: 12.5m to fund that companys acquisition of further volume legal services businesses.
In addition, with regard to the prior year, the Group entered into an option agreement to acquire the shares of OLSL for 1 in the event that Law Society rules are amended to allow the Group to own the shares in this type of legal services company.
3 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement include investments in units, held in the Groups insurance captives.
The units are held in managed funds comprising units of equities and other assets which are traded with a quoted market price in an active market.
An explanation of the Groups accounting policy with regard to these assets is contained in note 2 m on page 71.
These were classified as available-for-sale assets in the previous period.
The reclassification was done as it properly reflects the nature of these assets.
4 Details of the interest rate swap, currency swaps and cash flow hedges are contained in note 25.
5 The investment in a joint venture disclosed above represents the Groups interest in a syndicate for which the Group provides administrative outsourcing services operating in the Lloyds market, through its joint venture ownership of Cobex Corporate Member No 1 Limited Cobex in conjunction with the Groups insurance partners.
The assets and liabilities of this syndicate are as follows:
