T Th he e C Ca ap pi it ta a G Gr ro ou up p P Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 2 22 2 3.
Managing our business responsibly We are committed to growing the business in a transparent and socially responsible way that is sustainable for all stakeholders over the long term.
We focus on five main areas and these remain our priorities for 2008: A. Delivering value to shareholders B.
Building scale and capacity to support our clients and share economies of scale C. Managing resources well by actively attracting, developing and growing our workforce and their skills D. Creating successful supplier relationships to ensure quality, responsible and cost effective partnerships across the Group E. Supporting the communities in which we work and controlling our environmental impacts through socially responsible business practices.
Transforming theTeachers Pension Scheme Outsourcing theTeachers Pension Scheme to Capita in 1996 saved the Exchequer over 20m during our first seven-year contract.
So its perhaps not surprising that we won a second contract after a competitive tender in 2003 to run the service for a further seven years.
New contact centre Improvements in productivity Business review T Th he e C Ca ap pi it ta a G Gr ro ou up p P Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 2 23 3 Business KPIs for 2007 KPI Aim Progress 2007 2006 Managing resources well Maintain high retention rates for senior managers 89% 91% earning over 90k p. a.
Maintain overall employee retention at or above 82% 82% 1 industry average 81.9%.
Building scale & capacity Continue to grow our infrastructure of business 55 business 52 business centres to meet the needs of our growing business.
centres centres Create successful supplier Audit all existing tier one suppliers against Capitas 41% suppliers Supplier audit relationships standards of business 50% of suppliers to be audited commenced audited by end 2007.
New target set for 60% of suppliers to be audited by end 2008.
Socially responsible Continue to measure and assess our carbon 58,523 not 2 business practice footprint to reduce our impact on the environment tonnes available new benchmark established to be measured annually.
1 CIPD 2007 2 last measured in 2004 across a different set of sites 48% cut in costs Before we began running theTeachers Pension Scheme for the Department for Children, Schools and Families, member queries were answered in weeks rather than days.
Files could easily be misplaced, leading to low productivity.
We set up a single contact centre for all customer queries, and added email and online communications channels.
While almost halving the staffing requirement from 450 to 250, we New business generation generated enough new business to redeploy 98% of potentially redundant employees to other pensions contracts.
We actively encourage staff to pursue professional qualifications, and ISO and IiP accreditation have contributed to a staff retention rate of 97% and average service levels of 98%.
Having cut operating costs by 48% from some 17m to under 9m a year, were currently working to generate further savings.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24 Our business goal and strategy Managing our business responsibly I.
Funding acquisitions where we see II.
Delivering opportunities to add value through dividends shareholder value In 2007, we invested 114m in The Group dividend strategy is to return 12 acquisitions and investments and our surplus cash to shareholders through a Through maintaining a strong structure and pipeline of potential target acquisitions combination of progressive dividends controls, focusing on clear financial KPIs and remains at a healthy level.
While continuing and, when appropriate, capital returns.
applying consistent, careful risk to be extremely selective, we anticipate a management, we succeed in creating Regular dividends: A key element in similar volume of small to medium sized sustainable growth and delivering healthy the creation of shareholder value is a transactions in 2008.
See pages 1213 for investor returns see pages 1420. progressive dividend policy.
Over the five further details.
years to 31 December 2007 we grew our We use surplus cash to deliver further dividend at a compound annual rate of shareholder value in three main ways 32%.
Our confidence in the strength through acquisitions, dividends and and resilience of our business model has share buybacks: allowed us to reduce annual dividend cover gradually: for 2007 we continued this trend, reducing cover to 2.35 times.
Dividends 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Interim dividend p 1.00 1.30 1.75 2.10 2.70 4.00 Final dividend p 2.00 2.70 3.60 4.90 6.30 8.00 Total dividend p 3.00 4.00 5.35 7.00 9.00 12.00 Dividend cover 3.5x 3.3x 2.9x 2.7x 2.6x 2.35x before special dividend Special dividends 2007 Special dividend p 25 Total returned to shareholders m 155 Shares cancelled m 20 % of shares cancelled 3.2 Share buybacks 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 % of share capital authorised to repurchase 10 10 10 10 10 No of shares repurchased m 5.2 8.9 13.3 52.9 6.6 Total cost m 12.2 27.7 49.9 246 44 Average price p 235 311 375 465 665 Issued share capital at year end m 667 671 671 617 609 % of share capital repurchased 0.8 1.3 1.9 7.9 1.1 Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Special dividends: Taking account of the III.
Opportunistic share buybacks Company's strong cash flows, potential We have continued to undertake share acquisition pipeline and other potential buybacks opportunistically, when market investment opportunities, in July 2007 the conditions allow, to maintain an efficient Board declared a special dividend of 25p capital structure and minimise our long per share effectively returning some term cost of capital.
155m of surplus capital to shareholders.
In 2007 we repurchased 6.6m shares This was paid in addition to the interim representing 1.1% of the issued share dividend on 19 October 2007, to capital at an average price of 665p.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 September 2007.
We also undertook a share consolidation, issuing 30 new shares for every 31 old shares.
The principal purpose of this was to ensure that subject to normal market movements the market price of each new ordinary share matched what the share price would have been if the special dividend had not been paid.
This means that earnings per share and share prices can still be compared fairly with previous financial periods.
Group interest cover for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 8 times.
Transforming Cumbrias public services In February 2001, Cumbria County Council and Capita began a seven-year strategic partnership based around three core objectives: providing valueformoney services to the community, creating new jobs, and providing significant capital investment for the region.
It covers a full range of HR, IT, finance, property and highways services.
6.1m savings and 350 new jobs Since it began, the partnership has delivered savings of 6.1m through consistent and improved delivery of service.
Staff productivity has increased, attrition has fallen to 3.9%, and absence is down to just 2.3%.
In June 2003 we demonstrated our commitment to the area by opening a state-of-the-art 7m regional business centre in Carlisle.
Weve also invested in a network of business centres across Strategic partnership 7m new regional Cumbria and set up a new CouncilTax Revenue business centre and Housing Benefits processing centre in Carlisle, employing 60 people and geared for future expansion.
In all, weve created 350 jobs and grown business by 50% in six years.
We continue to look for opportunities to create jobs, achieve further savings, and deliver better services.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 26 Our business goal and strategy Managing our business responsibly We continuously assess the needs of each Business centres form a central part 3B.
Building scale business unit to ensure that we have the of our service delivery infrastructure.
necessary people, infrastructure and Our business centres are service centres and capacity resources for current and future of excellence, where we are able to run a development.
Each month, through the broad range of shared services to provide Growing our infrastructure to Monthly Operational Business MOB cost efficiencies to customers and a higher support our future growth review process, we monitor and review level of service quality.
comprehensive operational management We have built up an extensive operational At the end of 2007 we had an infrastructure information enabling us to manage the infrastructure and a depth of capabilities of 54 business centres onshore in the UK, business in a way that delivers our key which enable us to fully support our clients, nearshore in Ireland and the Channel financial aims.
providing flexible operating models and Islands, and offshore in India.
We have now sharing economies of scale.
added a further centre in Pune, India.
These Leveraging scale and resources centres are specialist centres, delivering Our continued growth and success depends The substantial scale and broad capability services to multiple clients or providing on having the right resources in place both we have created enable us to put forward multiple services to a single client.
in terms of infrastructure and people.
increasingly compelling propositions to To sustain our high contract win and This gives our clients exceptional flexibility.
clients and win major integrated service retention rates, we have to satisfy clients It allows us to deliver services in the most transformations across the public and that we have the operational scale and appropriate and cost effective way by private sectors.
capability to deliver our promises whether accessing centres of expertise, economies on relatively simple contracts or large scale, The recent addition of progressively of scale and a choice of operating cost multi-service partnerships.
larger contracts, with common processes models.
As excellent reference sites, they and substantial numbers of transferring are also essential to the sales process, staff has accelerated the growth of our allowing potential clients to see operations operations and resources.
This in turn first hand and to speak with operational enables us to deliver more services and staff who have transferred to Capita from contracts through shared ICT platforms client organisations.
and operating structures, providing greater benefits to clients.
They benefit not only from substantial cost efficiencies but also from greater access to specialist skills and flexible service delivery models.
Business centre network Onshore Nearshore Offshore UK Ireland, Channel Islands, Gibraltar India 48 business centres 4 business centres 3 business centres Back office admin Customer services Data validation & entry Customer services Life & pensions admin Claims & policy admin Life & pensions Financial services Fund management admin IT & software Corporate registrars Accounting & finance processing Resourcing & training Share registration Property consultancy Electronic document processing Claims & policy admin HR admin Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Blended service delivery Attracting the right people 3C.
Managing Our infrastructure allows us to offer clients Being able to attract the right people is resources well a blended delivery solution, where essential.
As the Group has evolved, the appropriate.
The establishment of our Our greatest resource is our people, opportunities available to employees have offshore operation in India in 2003 has who are key to our success.
We aim grown, making us increasingly attractive to enabled us to offer UK-based clients an to attract, develop and retain talented, people looking for a challenging and varied alternative operating model to UK-based ambitious people so that we have the career.
Our success and financial strength service delivery.
Clients can now seamlessly resources we need to help our clients mean we can also offer a stable and access both our UK and India centres to and grow our business.
In addition to direct deliver an outsourced service.
Our offshore recruitment, transfers under new Our employees are crucial to the operations, based at three locations in outsourcing contracts bring us a constant success of the business and we therefore Mumbai and Pune, are being used to make flow of talented and experienced people.
need to help them reach their full potential.
significant savings, provide flexibility, raise We ensure our managers have the right We have created an environment which service quality and deliver increased training and knowledge to embed Group rewards performance.
Clients can access key skills policies at local level, and we empower packages across the Group are set at levels and expertise in India which may be in them to make decisions and respond that keep us competitive in each part of the short supply in the UK, at a significantly quickly to clients needs and business business.
For our senior people, responsible reduced cost and increased service quality.
We encourage an open culture for the overall direction and performance By combining onshore and offshore where ideas are aired regardless of of the Group or its component parts, a resources we can deliver maximum service position and shared across similar significant element of their financial flexibility, quality and cost effectiveness.
operations where they may add value.
reward is linked to the financial success We can do this because our comprehensive of the business.
20 years ago we employed just over security and quality assurance systems 100 people.
Today we have over 29,000. ensure consistent service quality across the Numbers have almost doubled in the last entire infrastructure.
five years with a fast growing workforce in India.
Investing in our people e-learning Our comprehensive training and development programmes align continuous personal development with performance improvement.
Through our training programmes, buddy system, on-the-job coaching, and regular performance reviews, employees have the skills to do their jobs and a clear path for career progression.
We are expanding our e-learning programmes following the success of our e-induction which has received a 98% satisfaction rating from employees.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28 Our business goal and strategy Managing our business responsibly Our success is closely linked to our diverse, As part of our commitment to equal Retaining and inclusive culture.
opportunities, and in recognition of the developing people needs of our diverse workforce, Capita In 2006 we created a combined equality has adopted a family-friendly approach.
To maintain our growth we need to and diversity policy, the key aim of which We offer flexible working arrangements demonstrate our ability to deliver is to achieve employee profiles that reflect which benefit both the organisation and consistent, reliable service.
To do this the local communities in which we operate.
employees, including part-time hours, home we must retain key people and provide To ensure its effective delivery, in 2007 we working, job sharing, term-time working appropriate training.
launched the first stage of our Diversity and flexi-time.
We also offer time off for Action Plan, appointing diversity champions We ensure our employees have the right professional development and volunteering.
throughout the business and incorporating skills to deliver quality service through We believe this approach benefits not just online diversity training.
Already 22% of three main types of training: individuals but the Group as a whole.
employees have undertaken this training.
p Specific job-related skills We have a comprehensive suite of flexible Our policies are designed to support and benefits and put great emphasis on p Personal development comply with all relevant UK, European encouraging employee ownership through and International human rights and p Professional qualifications.
our share savings and ownership schemes.
employment legislation, and meet In 2007, 20% of the Groups eligible We provide training through the most International Labour Organisation employees had share options or owned appropriate channel, with the majority standards.
These policies are embedded in Capita shares.
delivered by our own training business.
our training and operational procedures.
In an effort to make training more Succession planning is a key element of our accessible, weve recently made all training MOB process to ensure that we have the courses available online.
Take-up and appropriate resources in place to maintain satisfaction with online training has been stable leadership and to guarantee service high our e-induction course received a continuity for clients.
It is continually 98% satisfaction rate.
reviewed by the Group Board.
Recognised achievement Capita excellence awards Through these annual awards we recognise and share examples of outstanding personal contributions to our business.
The awards celebrate the core values that embody our organisation and reward outstanding examples of our culture in action.
Categories include Effective Teamwork, Service Excellence, Innovation and Community Involvement.
All nominees are invited to an annual awards dinner to celebrate their success.
Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 1,300 employees are currently based in Managing and inspiring people India.
A further 1,250 will transfer in 2008 We have a structured approach to people as part of the Prudential contract, doubling development that encourages and creates our offshore operations.
We apply the same motivated, effective teams capable of high principles to all newly-transferred performance.
employees regardless of their location, and our Staffcare programme ensures they We empower business level managers to have the information they need to manage their teams successfully, and equip understand what transferring will mean for them with the necessary tools and training them.
In India, for example, potential in leadership processes and procedures.
employees want to be reassured that we Our leadership development programme, can offer sustainable career development IMPACT, is supported by our employee opportunities, alongside more practical intranet, CAPITAconnect, and our ideasconcerns such as support for travelling sharing culture is reinforced by transfers and to work.
To recognise success, we run original and Our ability to manage employee integration entertaining incentive schemes aligned is one of our greatest assets.
We also run an thirds of our employees have transferred to annual awards programme to recognise Capita through outsourcing contracts or exceptional individual and team acquisitions, and their smooth integration performance.
The awards reflect the key is essential.
We have evolved highly refined attributes that we see as core to Capitas and supportive transfer procedures and our ethos effective team work, innovation, managers are trained in implementing service and community.
strategies to develop and inspire people.
The results are evident in improved We attach great importance to healthy sickness and attrition levels and two-way communication with an transformed service standards.
open door policy across the Group, supplemented by more formal communication channels.
Our people also have the opportunity to communicate their views in an annual employee survey.
Offshore 4.5% The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30 Our business goal and strategy Managing our business responsibly We maintain a comprehensive database We have a wealth of experience in working 3D.
Creating successful of all suppliers, segregated by supplier with sub-contractors and niche partners, type and product service category ensuring using their specialist skills for the delivery supplier relationships that client requirements for supplier of the most appropriate and cost effective Effective procurement and supplier information can be readily provided.
We have a sub-contracting policy management give us access to the right The database is used as a tool to deliver and apply stringent criteria in selecting external resources on competitive terms.
sub-contractors, managing all our suppliers Our scale enables us to negotiate and sub-contractors under the same Were committed to developing small to favourable terms and develop strategic, principles, and ensuring that they work within medium sized enterprises SMEs, ensuring responsible relationships with our suppliers.
a fully integrated delivery and reporting that these suppliers are placed on a level framework.
A comprehensive procurement playing field with larger suppliers used Supplier management policy will be launched this year.
Our profiling capability Our supplier relationships are managed at is comprehensive and allows us to profile a Wherever we can, we work in partnership two levels, our Group Procurement team myriad of different types of supplier from with our clients and subcontractors to who manage our Group-wide contracts and large to small and in any industry sector.
positively influence the environmental at a local or business unit level where there performance of projects on which we Our key supplier programme and supplier is a particular category expertise.
diversity plan ensure suppliers meet our We have established partnerships with own corporate responsibility, equality and our key suppliers to ensure that we are diversity and performance standards.
able to negotiate beneficial Group-wide Within the programme we define our terms and assist them in reflecting high ideal supplier, specifying not just technical levels of service standards and responsible competences but also culture and values, business practices across their business environmental credentials, health and and supply chain.
safety record and commitment to corporate and social responsibility.
Transforming BBC Information Lines In 1998 the BBC outsourced its customer service function to Capita.
Its aim: to increase capacity and meet customer demand for greater accessibility.
The service now covers all BBC output TV, radio, the website, interactiveTV and events.
1m savings a year We transferred 100 existing call centre staff and opened a new contact centre in Belfast to handle long term growth.
The service now runs 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, employing 200 staff who can take up to 40,000 calls an hour.
Interactive voice recognition software, upgraded scanning facilities and an email auto-reply facility have freed up staff time, allowing a greater focus on value-added services.
Increased efficiencies have enabled us to Transformation plan New contact centre increase capacity by 40%.
for 100 existing staff and 100 more staff Rigorous quality control ensures high standards of customer service.
Staff training and development, plus our comprehensive performance management system, continually improve individual and team quality.
And callers appreciate the difference: in a recent MORI poll, 89% expressed overall satisfaction.
Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 We have also been working with the Waste 3E.
Undertaking Carbon Trust to educate our facilities In order to be a sustainable business managers and are about to launch Capitas socially responsible we need to look at the resources we use, green pages an area on our intranet how we recycle them, and how we dispose business practices giving staff information about what they of them.
can do to reduce their own and the Controlling our Companys carbon footprint.
This year we have worked with our environmental impact suppliers to source environmentally Transport friendly products, and through our work Due to the nature of our business, Capita Transport is the other area in which we with Office Depot have increased the has a low environmental impact compared have the biggest environmental impact.
proportion of environmentally responsible to organisations of similar size in other Our company car policy states that all goods available to Capita sites.
This is confirmed by our new and replacement company cars will result, 17% of our total contract spend FTSE4Good environmental impact rating of be diesel, and 95% of our fleet cars have with Office Depot in 2007 was on low.
However, we understand that good switched to diesel.
The policy is undergoing environmentally responsible products.
environmental management is integral to a review to reflect changes in Health and our business and make every effort to We also continued to develop effective Safety liabilities, keep it attractive to staff minimize the impact of our operations.
waste management policies and run and increase incentives to reduce carbon various recycling schemes to ensure used emissions by improving the flexibility Energy IT equipment, toner cartridges, mobile for drivers to trade down to cars with phones and paper are either recycled or Our most significant environmental lower emissions.
responsibly disposed of, as set out in the impact is energy.
In 2006, we launched a We try to reduce car travel generally EU WEEE Directive.
Groupwide programme to reduce the and continue to promote the use of our amount of electricity used at 18 of our In 2006, we set up the Digital Pipeline BT conference call facility throughout the largest sites by 12% by the end of 2008.
Initiative, donating our redundant IT business, with over 34,000 conference We are progressing well against our targets, equipment to schools and community calls made over the last year, a third more having reduced the amount of electricity centres in developing countries.
In 2007 than the previous year.
We also support used by 8% an emissions reduction of we donated over 8,000 units.
local initiatives such as lift sharing and just under 1,000 tonnes CO2, and will be shuttle buses to and from our offices and rolling the programme out to the entire are evaluating the Governments cycle Group in 2008. to work scheme.
Minimising our impact Reduction in CO2 emissions In 2006, we set a target of reducing electricity use by 12% at 18 of our largest sites by 2008.
We are progressing well towards this target, with overall savings of 8% to date, an emissions reduction of 2 just under 1,000 tonnes of CO. On the back of this success we will be rolling the programme out to the rest of the Group starting with sites that have Group electricity and gas supply contracts.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 32 Our business goal and strategy Managing our business responsibly As our business expands, our community Supporting our communities Local community partnerships programme will grow to reflect these The nature of our business means that we Our regional partnerships have helped developments.
With continuous employee are based in the heart of the communities to increase job creation, local purchasing consultation, we will refresh and widen our we serve.
Our interest in corporate and investment in community initiatives.
programme supporting our staff-selected responsibility CR arises from a recognition Our regional business centre strategy for charity or local charities where our of the impact our business operations have creating new sites also helps to channel job corporate charity is not represented as on those communities.
creation opportunities to deprived areas.
well as specific local community projects.
Our businesses are also encouraged to We have created a community investment To reflect the growth of our operations invest in and support local initiatives that and engagement strategy that focuses on in India we have set up a community add social or environmental value.
how businesses and staff can make a initiative in Mumbai, initially providing positive impact on the communities in support for an orphanage and its school.
Charitable initiatives which they operate.
We work closely with our operations in each At a corporate level our charitable strategy community to identify the best way of There is direction and assistance from is to support initiatives that address social contributing to the community.
the Group but businesses are empowered and educational exclusion whether due to to undertake local initiatives that are Full details of our CR priorities, initiatives disability, economic or social circumstances.
most appropriate to the needs of their and progress are detailed in our annual 2007 marked the end of our successful local communities.
CR report available at corporate charity partnership with the www.
co. uk  Our strategy focuses on two areas NSPCC and The Princes Trust.
Our local community partnerships and partnership directly raised 1.55m and a charitable initiatives.
further 1.7m through sponsorship of the charities events.
From 2008, following feedback from employees, we decided to support one charity, chosen by staff, at Group level alongside specific local projects.
Staff voted to work with Macmillan Cancer Support.
As employees were fully involved in the selection process we hope to see greater engagement over the next year.
Charitable engagement TheCapita Challenge An outdoor adventure race of mental and physical challenges in which both employees and clients compete together to raise moneyfor our charity partners.
By joining in the challenge our customers, friends and stakeholders can strengthen their links withCapita and gainfirst hand experience of the spirit which sets us apart.
In 2007 we raised 28,000for the NSPCC andThe PrincesTrust through theCapitaChallenge.
Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 CR Priorities Aim Year end 2007 Year end 2006 Environment Continue to measure and assess our carbon footprint to reduce 58,523 not 1 our impact on the environment new benchmark established, tonnes available to be measured annually Raise awareness of environmental issues and Group initiatives Ongoing Work group set up to across the business monitor requirements and progress Environmental site audit to be undertaken twice each year Audits completed Audits completed Reduce Capitas overall impact on the environment Ongoing Target set achieve 12% reduction in electricity used at our 18 largest sites by 2008 Continue switching fleet vehicles to diesel engines 95% 95% Achieve further ISO 14001 accreditations at our higher 37 34 impact sites Further promote BT conference call facility 34,463 21,094 conference calls conference calls Further promote Digital Pipeline Initiative where used IT 8,000 pieces of IT 5,000 pieces of IT equipment is donated to developing countries equipment donated equipment donated Communities Job creation to date 4,700 4,000 Corporate donations 0.5m 0.5m Meet our target of raising 1.5m for our corporate charities Raised 1.55m Raised 1.20m NSPCC and The Princes Trust by end 2007.
A target of 1m over two years to end 2009 has been set for our new charity partner, Macmillan Cancer Support Maximise the fundraising potential of our Group-wide Raised 48k Raised 53k charity week Health & safety Ensure we provide safe and productive working environments 58 reportable 58 reportable for all our employees accidents accidents RIDDOR RIDDOR Undertake site audits twice each year Audits completed Audits completed Senior management To attract and retain the appropriate level of 89% 91% retention earning senior management to drive the strategic over 90k p. a. direction of the Group Overall employee retention To attract and retain the right people to deliver 82% 82% Group strategy, maintaining employee retention 2 at or above industry average 2007: 81.9%, 2006 81.7% Employees by location To have at least 10% of our people based in 4.5% 3% India by 2009 Diversity of people To reflect the communities in which we work: p Male female split 51% male 51% male 49% female 49% female p Male female split for management 62% male 65% male earning over 50k p. a.
38% female 35% female 3 p Ethnic diversity 8% based on 50% 15% based on 48% 3 employees from ethnic minority groups response rate response rate 3 Part-time working To provide flexible working hours while ensuring 17% 24% maximum flexibility in Group resources Creating successful Audit all existing tier one suppliers against Capitas 41% Supplier supplier relationships standards of business 50% of all suppliers by end 2007. suppliers audit A new target of 60% of all suppliers to be audited by end audited commenced 2008 has been set 1 Our carbon footprint was last measured in 2004 across a different set of sites.
3 Impacted by end of Office Services contract and subsequent transfer of staff out of the Group.
