The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34 4.
Targeting growth markets Leading across a number of growing markets We are the UKs market leader in providing BPO services.
Our unrivalled infrastructure and capability, built up over more than 20 years, enable us to maintain a leading position in the market.
Our outsourcing partnerships today are focused on increasing service quality and reducing costs across both back office and frontline customer service processes.
Our aim is to transform our clients operating models to generate value and help to keep them at the forefront of their markets.
Transforming Zurich Financial Services Our 300m partnership with Zurich to provide open book life and pensions administration services is the largest in the UK.
We were appointed to improve service quality and cut operating costs over multiple sites, delivering customer servicing, policy administration, and new business and claims activities for Zurichs 2.8m UK open book life and pensions customers.
1,200 staff transferred Focus on staff communication Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 The scale of our infrastructure and breadth Competitor rankings of our expertise provide us with a strong UK BPO market competitive edge across our markets and % Market share enable us to present strong propositions to Provider 2007 2006 clients.
Most of our markets contain a stable set of responsible competitors providing a Capita 22 21 healthy marketplace in which to bid.
New Vertex 7 8 entrants to our markets face significant Accenture 6 7 barriers to entry as it takes time and scale to EDS 6 7 establish a strong presence.
Ovum 2007 We focus on supporting clients from the UK and Ireland where there are significant opportunities for growth.
An independent survey has estimated the markets potential at 94.8bn, split 2:1 between private and public sectors respectively.
In 2007, the total market for BPO was estimated at 5.1bn and forecast to grow at 10% a year until 2011.
1 month to hit contract targets In March 2006, just a month after we took over, Zurichs Cheltenham and Swindon customer contact centres were both meeting or exceeding the contract key performance targets.
Call abandonment was down from 11.6% to 2.3%, while competency and performance was up to 99%.
Two years on, call abandonment is just 1.8%.
The key to success: a carefully managed transition with emphasis on staff communication.
Swift service improvement Recognising the importance of the operations 1,200 people, we worked with them to earn Investors in People accreditation an achievement shared by everyone involved in November 2007.
The Zurich Customer Contact Centre was also named Customer Service Contact Centre of theYear up to 100 seats at the 2007 National Customer ServiceAwards.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36 Our business goal and strategy Targeting growth markets We constantly expand our offering in of our markets but still expect central Drivers behind our markets existing markets and broaden into government to remain fairly quiet, apart We currently operate in nine distinct complementary new market segments.
from support required to set up service markets where the drivers for seeking In 2007, our private public sector split was infrastructures for new initiatives.
Over time, Some of our prospective private sector support services are strong.
we expect to move closer to the overall clients are expecting their market conditions markets 2:1 ratio: but we will continue to to deteriorate over the next 18 months.
pursue the most attractive opportunities This is prompting them to explore how where we can generate value for our clients outsourcing could help create a more and sensible returns for Capita, irrespective flexible and lower cost operating model.
Given our scale and expertise in achieving Appetite for outsourcing remains strong and this, we may see growing demand from we are experiencing an increase in interest private sector organisations.
However, from clients in a number of our target we will continue to pursue such market sectors.
In 2007, we were most opportunities selectively and ensure active in securing large outsourcing controlled growth across the Group.
contracts in life and pensions and local government.
Central government was the quietest market.
So far in 2008, we are experiencing buoyant activity across many Markets % of turnover 2007 2006 1.
Health 1 1 Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Private sector Capita is well established in the private sector.
Our three largest private sector markets are life and pensions, insurance and financial services.
We are also supporting a growing number of other corporate organisations, particularly media, retail and telecommunications companies.
Insurance Capita is delivering new service models to increase client Capita can help the insurance industry to address its competitiveness.
Our deep experience across both open and closed book business Conditions for the insurance industry continue to be tough.
Life and pensions companies Companies face increasing regulatory pressures while striving continue to face a highly competitive and regulated environment to cut costs, improve efficiency and enhance customer service.
and many are adopting new service models to increase The rapid growth of internet sales, industry consolidation and competitiveness.
This is stimulating demand for outsourcing, intensifying international competition are driving dramatic which industry analysts expect to grow by 14% annually across shifts in consumer expectations, pricing and service delivery.
As organisations strive to compete more effectively, they look increasingly to outsourcing to deliver both specialised technical We work with clients to keep them at the forefront of their market solutions and management of non-core services and operations.
by raising efficiency, maintaining and enhancing service quality and providing flexible operating models.
Our specialist skills and Annual growth of 6% is forecast in this market to 2011. software are also attractive to occupational pension providers, Clients engage Capita to help them to: as pension scheme structures become ever more complex.
p Establish effective processes to satisfy complex regulation Clients engage Capita to help them to: p Reduce operating costs and improve customer service p Reduce operating costs while improving performance and customer retention p Establish strategic partnerships for low risk service improvement and business transformation p Ensure administration processes address increasingly complex regulations and initiatives such as MiFID p Improve management of claims costs, in particular through fraud and leakage prevention p Bring new propositions such as wrap products to market quickly, to satisfy consumer and adviser demand for more p Meet customer demand for more transparency, information, choice flexibility and value p Meet adviser demand for new remuneration methods to p Benefit from the continued rise of affinity brands among reduce reliance on upfront commission internet service providers, utilities and retailers.
p Respond to rapid change in the distribution marketplace p Develop closer relationships with advisers through technology and straight-through processing p Access specialist skills and enhance processes and systems to meet new pensions legislation and support the shift from final salary to money purchase pension schemes.
Services Divisions Services Divisions Business process outsourcing Life & pensions Business process outsourcing Insurance & Specialist Services Customer services Financial Services Customer services ICT & Advisory Services Administration and support Professional Services Administration and support Information and ICT & Advisory Services Information and communications technology communications technology Finance and treasury Finance and treasury Consultancy and change Consultancy and change management management Ovum 2007 The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 38 Our business goal and strategy Targeting growth markets Private sector continued 3.
Other corporate Capita is an ideal service partner for clients facing a market Capita helps increase companies' competitiveness by with fierce competition and growing regulation.
enhancing customer service and improving productivity.
Growth has been driven across the board in the last few years The proven competitive benefits of outsourcing have made by high levels of M&A work, IPOs and retail investor activity.
Right across the private sector, New markets are opening up and regulatory changes abroad, companies competitiveness depends on unrelenting such as Sarbanes-Oxley, are continuing to drive work into improvement in productivity, quality and customer service.
Faced with ever fiercer competition and growing Increasingly, they recognise outsourcing of both back office regulation, product providers are concentrating on developing and frontline services as an indispensable part of achieving this.
and distributing competitive products and are increasingly We can add real value to their performance and allow them keen to outsource back office functions.
Our uniquely broad to focus resources on their central areas of expertise.
Industry range of services enables us to offer them a single view of their analysts expect this market to grow by 11% annually to 2011. customers across their whole product range.
Clients engage Capita to help them to: Industry analysts estimate growth of 8% annually to 2011. p Reduce processing and administration costs while improving We expect continuing demand for our services even if economic customer service and retention conditions deteriorate, as organisations will need to reassess their operating models to remain competitive.
Our Registrar business p Bring new products to market faster to meet changing representing c. 60m of the Group turnover may be affected customer demands by a possible turndown in M&A work but this is expected to be p Gain better access to expert operational and advisory offset by demand in other areas of financial services.
capabilities Clients engage Capita to help them to: p Compete more effectively for skills through focus on p Manage compliance risk generated by continuing regulatory change employee support and benefits p Exploit opportunities created by regulatory and legislative p Improve productivity through better management of change to launch a wide range of new products all requiring sickness and absenteeism administration p Meet increasing regulatory and legislative requirements.
p Do more for customers and create new premium services p Meet financial intermediaries need for compliant, risk-related sales processes, through intermediary partnerships and bespoke administration systems p Benefit from new outsourcing opportunities created by structural changes in markets p Take advantage of the new opportunities for overseas companies created by the pre-eminence of the London Markets.
Services Divisions Services Divisions Business process outsourcing Financial Services Business process outsourcing Integrated Services Customer services Life & pensions Customer services Financial Services Administration and support Insurance & Specialist Services Administration and support Professional Services Human resources ICT & Advisory Services Human resources HR Solutions & Property Consultancy Information and Information and communications technology communications technology Insurance & Specialist Services Property consultancy ICT & Advisory Services Finance and treasury Consultancy and change Finance and treasury management Consultancy and change management Ovum 2007 Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Public sector Capita was formed in the public sector and initially supported local authorities.
Today, Capita provides outsourcing and support services to central and local government.
We have built up particular expertise in education and transport and have a growing interest in health.
Central government Capita helps local authorities to develop new delivery Capita works with Government departments to deliver models and transform services.
Transforming public services for the benefit of citizens and Across the public sector there is constant pressure to increase communities continues to be an explicit local government efficiency while simultaneously enhancing service quality.
This is driving local government to seek alternative ways As Government departments face ever more demanding of providing services and creating opportunities for the private financial and service targets, some are engaging with the private sector to help develop new delivery models.
With over 20 years sector to help them deliver organisational change and service experience in this marketplace and a UK-wide network of transformation.
Our record of successfully delivering complex multi service centres, we are uniquely placed to help local and high profile transformational projects, supported by effective authorities achieve effective change.
ICT and process re-engineering, makes us an attractive partner in modernising existing services and supporting future Industry analysts forecast market growth of 8% a year to 2011.
This continues to be a highly attractive and buoyant market for Capita.
Market growth of 9% is expected out to 2011.
However, we expect in the short term that this growth will be mainly fuelled Clients engage Capita to help them to: by requirements for outsourcing to deliver new service initiatives p Meet the challenging goals of the 2007 Comprehensive rather than transformation of the Governments existing Spending Review, including 3% annual efficiency targets administration infrastructure.
and shared services Clients engage Capita to help them to: p Respond to the Local Government Act through place-shaping p Meet the challenging goals of the 2007 Comprehensive and more partnership working, more strategic commissioning Spending Review, including 3% annual efficiency targets and devolution to communities and shared services p Deliver Sustainable Community Strategies through greater p Develop and modernise infrastructure e. g. transport, local cross-agency working and the new Comprehensive Building Schools for the Future Community Performance Assessment CCPA p Deliver the Transformational Government agenda for p Respond to the CCPAs emphasis on efficient use of resources more personalisation, improved citizen access and crossp Deliver the Transformational Government agenda for more government working personalisation and improved citizen access p Enhance partnerships across the public sector p Address key service priorities: children's services including p Address key service priorities: children's services including education, social community and economic regeneration education, social community and economic regeneration and transport.
and transport p Ensure that government and public services enhance the UKs global competitiveness.
Services Divisions Services Divisions Business process outsourcing Professional Services Business process outsourcing Integrated Services Customer services HR Solutions & Property Customer services HR Solutions & Property Consultancy Consultancy Administration and support Administration and support Financial Services Life & pensions Human resources Human resources ICT & Advisory Services Insurance & Specialist Services Information and Information and communications technology communications technology ICT & Advisory Services Property consultancy Property consultancy Finance and treasury Finance and treasury Consultancy and change Consultancy and change management management Ovum 2007 The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 40 Our business goal and strategy Targeting growth markets Public sector continued 7.
Transport Capita is supporting the Governments strategy to improve Capita has one of the UK's largest and most diverse educational standards and raise accessibility.
multidisciplinary property and infrastructure consultancies.
The Government has committed further funding to improve Our offering spans a broad range of infrastructure and transport educational standards and raise accessibility, but there is a need consultancy, from strategic and policy issues to effective design to ensure value for money as the growth in funding slows down.
and delivery of complete transport management solutions.
Government education strategy focuses on educational outcomes A key priority for the Government remains road congestion, and requires changing roles for local authorities and new and it has committed funds to help local authorities explore responsibilities for schools and colleges.
We are particularly innovative ways of reducing local traffic.
Private sector well placed to contribute because we combine ground-level involvement is well established in this area and our experience professional support services experience in schools and strategic of delivering the London Congestion Charging schemes positions management capacity to support local authorities and the us well to assist local authorities.
Department for Children, Schools and Families DCSF.
Although we will no longer be delivering the London Congestion Industry analysts are predicting market growth rates of 5% Charging schemes from the end of November 2009, we are out to 2011.
We anticipate continuing to build on our activities experiencing steady interest from current and potential local within this market.
authority clients who want to incorporate transport management solutions into their integrated transport plans.
Clients engage Capita to help them to: Industry analysts predict market growth of 10% out to 2011. p Transform and deliver support services through shared platforms to meet efficiency targets and achieve value for Clients engage Capita to help them to: money to underpin education excellence p Implement the Public Service Agreement to cut urban congestion by 2010-11 p Develop and deliver the wider Childrens Services Agenda p Meet the Governments commitment to road pricing schemes p Make planned investment in systems and ICT to reduce bureaucracy, enhance assessment and improve financial p Address local transport needs through public consultation management p Respond to the Governments commitment to building road p Set up arrangements for and support implementation of and transport infrastructure Building Schools for the Future p Use technology to improve network management.
p Address the Leitch Review of Skills and the reconfiguration of further education and training p Recruit key personnel, including teachers.
Services Divisions Services Divisions Business process outsourcing Integrated Services Business process outsourcing Integrated Services Customer services Professional Services Customer services Professional Services Administration and support HR Solutions & Property Administration and support HR Solutions & Property Consultancy Consultancy Human resources Human resources Insurance & Specialist Services Financial Services Information and Information and communications technology ICT & Advisory Services communications technology ICT & Advisory Services Property consultancy Property consultancy Finance and treasury Consultancy and change management Ovum 2007 Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 9.
Health Capita is helping to deliver the increase in outsourced services and public private partnerships that is seen as key to progress in the health sector.
Although NHS funding is set to increase, there are significant financial pressures for organisational change to deliver efficiencies, improve commissioning and enhance patient experience through better access to services.
Responding to these pressures requires transformation of both back office support services and front office clinical administration to free-up and support frontline services.
Outsourced services and public private partnerships are increasingly seen as key to building capacity and delivering the capability and experience necessary to facilitate this change.
Industry analysts predict annual market growth of 31% to 2011.
Clients engage Capita to help them to: p Respond to funding pressures and the 2007 Spending Review p Enhance their commissioning capacity p Improve patient access through a transformed front office p Rationalise and modernise support services p Realise the benefits of new technology, in particular through the Connecting for Health programme p Rationalise existing property and reinvestment in new property to improve work environment and patient care p Streamline clinical administration to deliver Patient Choice and achieve the 18 week target from first appointment to treatment.
Services Divisions Business process outsourcing HR Solutions & Property Consultancy Administration and support ICT & Advisory Services Human resources Information and communications technology Property consultancy Finance and treasury Consultancy and change management Ovum 2007
