The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 116 Useful information for shareholders Shareholder enquiries Share dealing Registered office Shareholders who have questions relating to A quick and easy share dealing service is now 71 Victoria Street the Groups business or wish to receive further available for existing Capita shareholders to Westminster copies of annual or interim reports should either sell or buy more Capita Group shares London SW1H 0XA contact Capitas investor relations team on online or by telephone.
For further information on this service or to Fax: 020 7799 1526 If you have any queries about your shareholding buy and sell Capita shares online go to: Registered number: 2081330 please contact the Companys registrar, Capita www.
com Registrars, at the address below.
or by telephone: Company Secretary 0871 664 0454 Gordon Hurst Capita Registrars The Registry Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Stockbrokers 34 Beckenham Road We offer a DRIP to enable shareholders to Deutsche Bank AG Beckenham purchase additional Capita shares with their 1 Great Winchester Street Kent BR3 4TU whole cash dividend.
These further shares London EC2N 2EQ Tel: UK 0871 664 0300 would be bought in the market on behalf of Citigroup shareholders under a special low-cost dealing Overseas 44 20 8639 3399 Citigroup Centre arrangement.
Further details of the DRIP can be email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com 33 Canada Square found online.
Please visit the shareholder services Canary Wharf section at www.
co. uk investorcentre or London E14 5LB call Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300.
Auditors Financial calendar Ernst & Young LLP Annual General Meeting 1 More London Place 6 May 2008 London SE1 2AF e-communications for shareholders Final Dividend payment Help us communicate with you in a greener, 9 May 2008 Solicitors more efficient and cost effective way by Herbert Smith switching from postal to email communications.
Interim results Exchange House Shareholders can receive important information 24 July 2008 Primrose Street online, including annual and interim reports London EC2A 2HS and notice of meetings.
Registering for e-communications also enables shareholders to: Bankers obtain secure online access to personal Barclays Bank plc shareholding details London Corporate Banking PO Box 544 submit queries to our registrars, download First Floor forms and obtain general shareholder 154 Lombard Street information London EC3V 9EX update shareholding account online.
HSBC Bank plc To register for e-communications, visit 27-32 Poultry www.
co. uk investorcentre ecomms London EC2P 2BX The legislation regarding electronic shareholder National Westminster Bank Plc communications has now changed and we will be 1 Princes Street writing to you shortly to explain how this can London EC2R 8PB enhance the way we communicate with you.
For every shareholder that registers for e-communications we have pledged to donate 1 to Climate Care.
For further details visit www.
org Our goal is to deliver value to all our stakeholders Our straightforward goal is to continue to develop Capita as a long term, sustainable business that can deliver value to all our stakeholders: p Delivering operational excellence and added value for all clients p Achieving a good return for shareholders p Creating a supportive, rewarding and inspiring environmentfor employees p Developing mutually beneficial relationships with suppliers p Making a positive impact on the communities in which we work.
To meet our goal we focus on 5 core elements Our growth opportunity 1.
Generating profitable growth both organically and through acquisition We operate in and lead the market commonly known as business process outsourcing BPO or professional support services, the long term contracting out of non-core business processes 2.
Controlling and measuring growth through strong leadership and clear business practices to an outside provider to help lower the cost of delivery and improve service quality.
Managing our business responsibly to meet the needs of all our stakeholders We focus on the UK and Ireland where there are significant opportunities for growth.
Targeting growth markets for BPO and professional support services in the UK and Ireland 5.
Maintaining performance across our divisions by consistently delivering service excellence Total UK BPO market p. a. and sharing Group resources and scale benefits.
Today Our principal Key Performance Indicators KPIs 5.1bn Public: 1.7bn 33% KPI Year end 2007 Year end 2006 Private: 3.4bn 67% Operating margins Maintain and strengthen margins 13.1% 12.9% Potential Free cash flow Maintain strong free cash flow 184m 154m 94.8bn Return on capital employed ROCE Public: 31.7bn 33% Achieve ROCE which exceeds our cost of capital 19.6% 18.5% Private: 63.1bn 67% Economic profit Achieve steadily increasing economic profit 110m 89m Ovum 2007 Gearing interest cover Maintain efficient capital structure, with relatively low gearing 8x 9x Our services and markets Capital expenditure Keep at or below 4% of revenue 3.5% 3.6% We deliver these services to these markets Retaining people p Business process outsourcing BPO Private Public Senior management retention 89% 91% 1 p Customer services p Life and pensions p Central government Overall employee retention industry average 81.9% 82% 82% Carbon footprint new benchmark p Administration and support p Insurance p Local government 2 Carbon footprint across our 18 largest sites 58,523 tonnes not available p Human resources p Financial services p Education 1 CIPD 2007 2 Last measured in 2004 across a different set of sites p Information and communications technology ICT p Other corporate p Transport p Property consultancy p Health Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Thanks to all of our employees who took part in the This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company and no one else.
The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this p Finance and treasury photography for this report.
document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they p Consultancy and change management Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in Photography by George Brooks and HenryThomas this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
For further information visit www.
co. uk Printed by CTD The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The Capita Group Plc 71 Victoria Street Westminster London SW1H 0XA Capita at a glancek T 020 7799 1525 F 020 7799 1526 www.
co. uk The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Transforming outsourcing results We transform service delivery, increasing quality and driving down costs, helping our clients meet their customers needs and stay at the forefront of their markets.
Working with clients in both the public and private sectors in the UK and Ireland, our core role is to provide efficient back office administration and frontline customer services.
This leaves them to focus on their core business drivers and strategies.
Helping our clients succeed enables us to grow consistently and profitably, creating a sustainable business that delivers value to all our stakeholders.
