208720 RIT R&A pp50-84 1 6 07 17:12 Page 79 79 Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of RIT Capital Partners plc will be held at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5HS on Thursday 19 July 2007 at 11.00 a. m. Gentlemen attending are requested to wear a jacket and tie in order to comply with the rules of The Royal Automobile Club.
The meeting will be held for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, each of which is proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1.
To approve the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2007: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share: 4.
To re-elect Charles Bailey as a Director: 5.
To re-elect Mikael Breuer-Weil as a Director: 6.
To re-elect Duncan Budge as a Director: 7.
To re-elect John Elkann as a Director: 8.
To re-elect Andrew Knight as a Director: 9.
To re-elect Lord Rothschild as a Director: 10 To re-elect Michael Sofaer as a Director: and 11.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 12.
THAT the authority conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 and 30 September 2008: AND THAT such authority shall for that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 52,059,389.
THAT the power conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 and 30 September 2008.
THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 23,411,107 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive of expenses which is: a not less than 1 per share: b not more than 5% above the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days preceding any such purchase: AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire on 30 September 2008 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed wholly or partly after such date.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp50-84 1 6 07 17:12 Page 80 80 Annual General Meeting By order of the Board J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary Registered office: 27 St Jamess Place London SW1A 1NR 31 May 2007 Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, together with copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company and the Register of Directors Interests are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and Bank Holidays excepted until 19 July 2007 and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp50-84 1 6 07 17:12 Page 81 Annual General Meeting 81 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective the instrument appointing a proxy must either be a deposited at the Companys registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8FB, b lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service explained in Note 5 below, or c lodged electronically through the Companys website www.
All proxies, however lodged, must be received not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Please note that any power of attorney or other authority under which the instrument is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must accompany the physical instrument appointing a proxy, as these documents cannot be lodged electronically.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members on 17 July 2007 at 6.00 p. m. or, if the meeting is adjourned, no later than 6.00 p. m. on the date two days prior to the date of the adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting services provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in the Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp50-84 1 6 07 17:12 Page 82 82 Explanatory Notes RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2003 require that the Directors Remuneration Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 28 to 34 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 3 DIVIDEND A final dividend can only be paid after the shareholders at a General Meeting have approved it.
A final dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share is proposed.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 10 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All Directors have to stand for re-election at least once every 3 years, but are eligible for re-election.
Directors also adhere to the Boards policy that any Director who has served as such for nine or more years and who is not retiring by rotation, shall nonetheless stand for re-election at each annual general meeting.
John Elkann was appointed as a Director since the last Annual General Meeting and, under the Articles of Association, is required to retire and seek re-election by the shareholders.
The re-election of each of the Directors standing is recommended by the Board, which confirms, following their annual performance review, that each such Directors performance continues to be satisfactory.
RESOLUTION 11 REAPPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF THE AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 12 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution and requires the approval of three quarters of the votes cast at the meeting will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
This authority will last until the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 30 September 2008.
The maximum amount that can be allotted under this authority is 52,059,389.
RESOLUTION 13 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the pre-emption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2008, or on 30 September 2008 if earlier.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines in respect of allotment of shares for cash.
These presently require that the annual authority should not exceed 5% of the issued share capital and that no more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital should be allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp50-84 1 6 07 17:12 Page 83 Explanatory Notes 83 RESOLUTION 14 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,411,107 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 permit companies to hold any of their own shares which they have purchased as Treasury Shares as an alternative to cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors currently have no intention of exercising the authority conferred in this resolution and will only purchase shares after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and whether the effect will be to increase net asset value per share, and if it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
