208720 RIT R&A pp15-49 1 6 07 17:13 Page 44 44 Group Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING All listed companies in the European Union EU are required to present their consolidated financial statements for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Therefore, the Group's consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 have been presented on this basis.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and investment properties.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where the presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP, Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies, issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in December 2005 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis which complies with the recommendation of the SORP.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT In order to reflect better the activities of an investment trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented within the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as an investment trust, net capital profits may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the Directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 842 of the Taxes Act 1988.
INCOME Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established and this is normally the ex-dividend date.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
The excess, if any, in the value of shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the income statement.
UK dividend income is recorded at the amount receivable without any attributable tax credit.
Overseas dividend income is shown gross of withholding tax.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp15-49 1 6 07 17:13 Page 45 Group Accounting Policies 45 EXPENSES All expenses and interest costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the income statement, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except those items listed below: Expenses are allocated to capital where a direct connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
Expenses are allocated to revenue where there is an indirect connection.
Investment management fees are considered to be indirect costs and are therefore allocated to revenue.
Performance fees are allocated to capital as they arise as a result of the capital performance of the relevant investment portfolio.
The Group has in force certain incentive arrangements whereby fees payable are based entirely on the increase in the values of certain investments.
The cost of these incentive arrangements is considered to be a direct cost of enhancing the value of these investments and is therefore allocated to capital.
The Group has in force long-term incentive arrangements for the executive Directors of RITCP, and for other senior executives, whereby they receive additional remuneration based entirely on any increase in the Companys share price subject to a performance condition.
The primary objective of the Company is to deliver long-term capital growth for its investors.
The costs of these arrangements derive principally from the capital performance of the Group and consequently the Directors consider it appropriate to allocate the costs of these arrangements in their entirety to capital.
The Group has an Executive Bonus Plan for the executive Directors whereby they receive a bonus calculated by reference to the Companys three-year moving average outperformance over three key total return indices.
The amount of the bonus depends principally on the capital performance of the Group and therefore the Directors consider it appropriate to charge the whole of the bonus to capital.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
Costs incurred in connection with abortive portfolio investment transactions are also allocated to capital.
FINANCE COSTS Finance costs are accounted for on an effective yield basis.
Since these costs are considered to be an indirect cost of maintaining the value of the investments they are allocated in full to revenue.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates, i. e. its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in pounds sterling sterling which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentational currency of the Group.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period in respect of those investments which are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
All foreign exchange gains and losses, except those arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries, are recognised in the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS, a foreign currency translation reserve has been established in respect of the exchange movements arising on consolidation since 31 March 2004.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp15-49 1 6 07 17:13 Page 46 46 Group Accounting Policies TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are not subject to tax or are not deductible for tax purposes.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 842 of the Taxes Act 1988 are not subject to tax on capital gains.
In view of the Companys status as an investment trust, and its intention to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided current or deferred tax on any capital gains or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
The carrying amount of the deferred tax asset is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
INVESTMENTS Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is made under a contract whose terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value.
All of the Groups investments are defined by IFRS as investments designated at fair value through profit and loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value and, except as noted below, are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair value is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in hedge funds and long equity funds are valued at the closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, released by the relevant investment manager.
Changes in the fair value of all investments held at fair value are recognised in the income statement.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the income statement.
Transaction costs, including bid-offer spreads, are included within gains on investments held at fair value.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using valuation techniques, which may include using recent arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same and discounted cash flow analysis.
Where there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such unquoted equity instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
Where securities are designated upon initial recognition as fair value through profit or loss, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period as a capital item.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on investments held at fair value are included within the changes in their fair values.
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition at cost, investment properties are carried at their fair values based on the professional valuation made as of each reporting date.
Valuation surpluses and deficits arising in the period are included in the income statement.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of a property is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the beginning of the period and is recognised in the income statement.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp15-49 1 6 07 17:13 Page 47 Group Accounting Policies 47 DEALING INVESTMENTS Current asset investments held by the dealing subsidiary undertaking, including futures, options and other derivative instruments, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
The movements in fair value of trading positions are included in the revenue return column of the income statement.
Securities sold short are valued at their offer prices in accordance with IFRS.
SUBSIDIARIES Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any provision for impairment made in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
Impairment tests are carried out twice each year as at 30 September and 31 March.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash at bank in the consolidated balance sheet comprises cash balances and deposits held at call and short notice with banks.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
PROVISIONS A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a constructive or legal obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payment, a charge is required for all share-based payments which includes the long-term incentives provided under the Companys Share Appreciation Rights Plan SARs.
The cost of granting these SARs to employees and Directors is recognised through the income statement.
The Company has used the binomial option valuation model and the resulting value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting periods of the relevant SARs.
The charge is reversed if it appears likely that the performance criteria will not be met.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Tangible fixed assets are shown at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment.
It is calculated by the Group on a straight line basis by reference to original cost, estimated useful life and residual value.
The period of estimated useful life for this purpose is between three and four years.
PENSIONS J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking, is a participating employer in the Groups non-contributory funded, defined benefit retirement scheme, which is currently closed to new members and the assets of which are held in a trustee administered fund.
The Group accounts for its defined benefit retirement scheme by reference to IAS 19, Employee benefits.
For the defined benefit retirement scheme, the cost of benefits accruing during the year in respect of current and past service is charged to the income statement and allocated to revenue.
The expected return on the schemes assets, actuarial gains and losses and the increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are also recognised in the income statement.
An actuarial valuation of the defined benefit retirement scheme is undertaken every three years as at 1 January and is updated as at each 31 March and 30 September during the intervening valuation dates.
The valuation is carried out using the projected unit method of funding basis.
The income statement also includes costs incurred in respect of defined contribution schemes and these costs comprise the contributions payable in the year.
OTHER RECEIVABLES Other receivables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature: they are accordingly stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp15-49 1 6 07 17:13 Page 48 48 Group Accounting Policies BANK BORROWINGS Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
OTHER PAYABLES Other payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
From time to time, the Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The dealing subsidiary may also use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, derivative financial instruments are recognised on the date the Group enters into the relevant contract, and are derecognised on the date which it commits to their sale.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The amount in equity is released to income when the forecast transaction impacts profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
If capital in nature, the associated change in value is presented as a capital item in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity for cash flow hedges is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss in the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the financial instrument is not classified at fair value through profit or loss.
ALLOCATION TO CAPITAL All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the income statement and the statement of changes in equity, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except as listed below: The following are presented as realised capital items: gains and losses on the realisation of investments realised exchange differences of a capital nature expenses, together with the related taxation effect, allocated to capital in accordance with the above policies realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature the cost of purchasing ordinary shares for cancellation.
The following are presented as unrealised capital items: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp15-49 1 6 07 17:13 Page 49 Group Accounting Policies 49 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are discussed below.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as recommended by the British Venture Capital Association.
The principles which the Group applies are set out on page 11.
This determination requires significant management judgement.
Retirement benefit obligation The determination of the pension cost and the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, longevity and the expected return on scheme assets.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the pension obligation.
The expected return on scheme assets is determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year: this is the interest rate that is used to calculate the present value of the estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligation.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
Deferred tax asset Management judgement is required in determining the deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognised in the financial statements.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Long-term incentive plan The carrying amount of the provision in respect of the long-term incentive plan depends on a number of assumptions which are set out in note 19.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
