62 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale financial asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement of recognised Consolidated financial statements income and expense.
Where the investment return is managed on the The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the investment gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair value European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared through the income statement.
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and losses available for sale financial assets, investment property, Group occupied arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups pension property and financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading which obligations in the statement of recognised income and expense during include all derivative contracts.
the period in which they arise.
This policy has been adopted as it provides the most relevant basis of recognition of such gains and losses.
Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of British Pounds Sterling Consolidation Sterling, shown as m, rounded to the nearest million.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern Changes in presentation and comparative information the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their The Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half and a complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights Statements Capital Disclosures.
This results in additional disclosures that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when of the Groups risk management policies and the extent to which the assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully Group is exposed to risk.
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
This results in They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
the disclosure of financial information about the Group based upon the information used internally to evaluate the performance of the operating The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition divisions and the allocation of resources to those divisions.
The Group of subsidiaries by the Group.
has chosen to adopt IFRS 8 for a period earlier than the period for which adoption is mandatory.
The directors believe that the information The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, provided is more useful to users of the Groups financial statements equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date than that required under the previous standard IAS 14 Segment of exchange, including costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Reporting because the new standard aligns with the performance Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed measures of the operating divisions used for internal performance in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the measurement.
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share Comparative information has been provided for each of these disclosures.
of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the cost These changes have no impact on the result or the earnings per share for of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary the period, the comparative period or earlier periods, and the Groups acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
financial position at the end of each such period.
Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between shareholders Selection of accounting policies of the Group and minority shareholders are accounted for as transactions The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting between equity holders of the Group.
Any difference between the fair policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the directors value of the consideration given by the transferee and the carrying value to present financial statements that they consider provide the most of the ownership interest transferred is recognised directly in equity.
For certain accounting policies there are different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which would be Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant influence upon the between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also basis on which the financial statements are presented.
The bases of eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment selection of the accounting policies for the accounting for financial assets of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed and for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses related to pension where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by obligations are set out below: the Group.
The Group designates financial assets that are held as investments on Associates the basis on which the investment return is managed and the Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return is not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 63 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by Goodwill and other intangible assets the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or losses are liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the balance sheet at cost and is recognised in the income statement, and its shares of post acquisition subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair value of acquisition movements are adjusted in the carrying amount of the other purchase consideration given together with associated expenses.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured impairment testing.
Each of those cash generating units represents the receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has Groups investment in each country of operation.
Goodwill is subject incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
to an impairment review at least annually.
An impairment review is also carried out whenever there is an indication that goodwill or other Adjustments are made, where necessary, to conform the accounting intangible assets are impaired.
Where the carrying amount is more policies of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted than the recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised.
When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, claims provisions Translation of foreign currencies are discounted to present value.
Immediately following the acquisition, the Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities claims provisions are valued at full nominal value.
This increase in liabilities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising from acquired in which the entity operates the functional currency.
claims provisions, representing the present value of future investment income implicit in the claims discount.
The intangible asset is amortised The results and financial position of those Group entities whose functional over the expected run off period and is tested in the context of the liability currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling as follows: adequacy test of insurance liabilities where the balances of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts is deducted from the carrying Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated amount of the insurance liabilities.
The run off period is normally between at the closing exchange rate at the date of that balance sheet five and 11 years.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from at average exchange rates during each period computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component immediately before the expenditure was made, is recognised as an of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency brands and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income statement as part of Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less the gain or loss on sale.
Amortisation on computer software and other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which is normally of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the closing estimated to be between three and 12 years.
Property and equipment Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and motor Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful life transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of after taking into account residual values.
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated cost.
Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities classified Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
as available for sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
64 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies continued Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar property Financial assets in the same location and condition and subject to similar contractual A financial asset is initially recognised, on the date the Group commits terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external professionally to purchase the asset, at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual basis, with reference to not classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction current market conditions.
costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost have expired or have been transferred and when the Group has includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the transferred substantially the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow to the On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised into the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to their purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Group occupied buildings normally 30 years The Group designates investments in accordance with its investment Fixtures and fittings 10 years strategy on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the Motor vehicles 4 years performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return is Equipment 3-5 years managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale financial The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if asset.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the total appropriate, at the balance sheet date.
return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair value through the income statement.
An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not classified on recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its initial recognition as available for sale assets and are therefore categorised estimated recoverable amount.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity represent an occupied property are credited to revaluation surplus in equity.
Decreases unrealised loss the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed to test that offset the previous increases of the same asset are charged against whether an indication of impairment exists.
revaluation surplus directly in equity, other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between depreciation based For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where there is on the fair value of the asset charged to the income statement and objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including a significant or depreciation based on the assets original cost is transferred from prolonged decline in the fair value below cost, the unrealised loss charged revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
to equity is reclassified to the income statement.
Investment property If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and the Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and buildings, increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent investments are not reversed.
professionally qualified valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the category of the investment property being valued, on an annual basis or contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment charge is more frequently and by internal valuers for interim periods, with reference recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying value of the to current market conditions.
Related unrealised gains and unrealised financial asset to its recoverable amount.
losses or changes thereof are recognised in net investment return.
Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 65 losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items which fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition of an recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that investment classified as available for sale, the cumulative gain or loss are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
pricing models For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values are Derivative financial instruments estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet on a trade date basis and market rates are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when fair value For cash, short term investments, commercial paper, other assets, is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The method of liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using hedged.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging instrument, discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when different, fair value is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry a variable Hedging rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values approximate Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following to fair values conditions for hedge accounting are met: For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy Insurance contracts for undertaking the hedge Product classification Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when the changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain future consistently with the originally documented risk management event other than a change in a financial variable adversely affects the strategy for that particular hedging relationship policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting the definition of an insurance The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured contract under IFRS are classified as investment contracts or derivative For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of the contracts, as appropriate.
hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss Recognition of income The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the contract is been highly effective.
entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the balance sheet date.
Premiums written exclude taxes and duties Where loan capital or a forward foreign exchange contract is levied on premiums and directly related expenses, e. g. commissions.
designated as a hedging instrument against the net investment in Premiums are earned as revenue over the period of the contract and foreign entities, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in are calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated Acquisition costs in equity are included in the income statement when the underlying Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining hedged item is derecognised.
and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised as a deferred acquisition cost asset and amortised on the same basis as the Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities related premiums are earned.
The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are: Insurance liabilities The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, to the balance sheet date.
fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting The provisions for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, comprise expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable to the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment date.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is determined using the best For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices information available of claims settlement patterns, forecast inflation and If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes settlement of claims.
The provisions for claims outstanding relating to long 66 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies continued term permanent disability claims in Canada and Scandinavia are also Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured determined using recognised actuarial methods.
settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the The provisions for claims outstanding, and related reinsurance recoveries, annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity are discounted where there is a particularly long period from incident to is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
claims settlement and where there exists a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining those claims with a long Cash and cash equivalents period from incident to claims settlement, those categories of claims where Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that the average period of settlement is six years or more from the balance are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible into sheet date, has been used as a guide.
The discount rate used is based upon known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets with an investment return expected to be earned by assets, which are less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the provisions for claims outstanding being discounted, during the period necessary for the payment Treasury shares of such claims.
Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement of consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in which they are settled or in which the provisions for claims outstanding are re-estimated.
Loan capital Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially measured At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether the at the consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
A separate provision is loan capital is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest made, based on information available at the balance sheet date, for any rate method.
estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired risks.
The provision is calculated after taking into account future investment income An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially that is expected to be earned from the assets backing the provisions for different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
The unexpired financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The terms risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cashflows opinion of the directors, are managed together.
under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different Reinsurance ceded from the discounted present value of the remaining cashflows of the original Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded, are recognised in financial liability.
An exchange where the terms are not substantially the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include different is accounted for as an exchange.
estimates where the amounts are not determined at the balance sheet date.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the reinsurance If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted for as contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted for as an exchange, A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance liabilities is recognised any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the liability and to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the reinsurance are amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability and no contracts in respect of the outstanding claims reported under insurance adjustment is made to the carrying value of the liability to reflect its fair liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued on the value at the date of exchange.
same basis as the underlying claims provision.
The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after the initial recognition that Taxation provides objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for due under the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, the expected amount that will be recovered from the reinsurer.
together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised is recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except on the same basis.
where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is probable that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, in which case UK tax is based on dividends received.
Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 67 Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the The cost of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax line basis over the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other The cost of providing additional benefits that vest on their introduction than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects are recognised immediately.
neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount rate is the deferred tax liability is settled.
determined at each balance sheet date by reference to current market yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the currency Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that and estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the period is future taxable profits will be available against which these temporary calculated by multiplying the discount rate determined at the start of the differences can be utilised.
period by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
Employee benefits The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the Pension obligations changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any curtailments Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period are recognised in are generally funded through payments to trustee administered funds, the income statement.
Additionally, any previously unrecognised past determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both service costs related to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or losses defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined contribution on settlement and curtailment.
scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension The expected returns on scheme assets are determined for each asset scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will class, at the beginning of the period, as the expected investment returns receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
All returns as age, years of service and salary.
are net of investment expenses.
Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions retirement health schemes when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect of Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets being the period in which the employment services qualifying for the benefit different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are are provided.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The value recognised in the balance sheet for each individual post The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income retirement scheme is calculated as follows: statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined benefit schemes are as follows: The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme at the balance sheet date The current service cost Minus any past service cost not yet recognised The past service costs for additional benefits granted in the current Minus the fair value at the balance sheet date of the scheme assets out or earlier periods of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The interest cost for the period Termination benefits The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: the present value of the additional benefits attributable to employees terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed services provided during the period.
formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present values Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using the discounted to present value.
68 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies continued Share based payment Non current and disposal group assets and liabilities The value of the employee share options and other equity settled held for sale and discontinued operations share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date using Non current and disposal group assets are classified as held for sale if appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value of liabilities their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale in respect of cash settled share based payment transactions is based upon transaction, that is highly probable to complete within one year from the fair value of the awards at the balance sheet date.
the date of classification, rather than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance costs to sell and are classified separately from other assets in the conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are not taken balance sheet.
Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are not netted.
into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but are taken In the period where a non current asset or disposal group is recognised into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the for the first time the balance sheet for the comparative prior period ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
The value of the awards presented is not restated.
is recognised as an expense on a systematic basis over the period during which the employment services are provided.
Where an award of options Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income is cancelled by an employee, the full value of the award less any value statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit or previously recognised is recognised at the cancellation date.
loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss recognised on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs to sell of the net The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share assets constituting the discontinued operations.
In the period where an capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
operation is presented for the first time as discontinued, the income statement for the comparative prior period presented is restated to Provisions present that operation as discontinued.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is presented that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements contain amounts the amount can be reliably estimated.
attributable to continuing operations only.
The comparatives for the notes to the income statement are restated.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering Current and non current distinction the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within the the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified as in the same class of obligations may be small.
current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non current.
Dividends to equity holders The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the Annual The Groups consolidated balance sheet is not presented using current General Meeting.
The interim dividend is recognised as a liability when paid.
However, the following balances are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents: deferred Leases acquisition costs: and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: Operating segments loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are regularly reviewed The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non by the Group Chief Executive Officer and by the Board of Directors to current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes assess their performance and to allocate capital and resources.
or in the risk management section.
Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 69 Recently issued accounting pronouncements All consideration including contingent consideration transferred in a Below are listed the developments that are relevant to the Groups future business combination is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Changes in the value of contingent consideration are measured in accordance with the relevant accounting treatment under IFRS a Published standards and amendments to published standards that Pre existing equity interests in an acquiree are remeasured to fair value are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group at the date of, and immediately before, the business combination and On 6 September 2007 the International Accounting Standards Board any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
IASB issued a revised version of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial The revised standards will come into effect for the annual periods Statements.
beginning on or after 1 July 2009, but early adoption is permitted.
The revised standard changes certain aspects of the presentation The revised standards have not yet been adopted by the EU.
The of financial statements including the mandatory introduction of a new standards will be applied prospectively and so will have no impact statement of comprehensive income.
The revised standard gives on the results and the earnings per share of the current period, the preparers of financial statements the option of presenting items of comparative period or earlier periods, and on the Groups financial income and expense and components of other comprehensive income position at the end of each such period.
It is not possible to assess either in a single statement of comprehensive income with subtotals, or the impact the changes will have on future periods.
in two separate statements a separate income statement followed by a statement of comprehensive income.
In addition, the revisions include b Other Standards and Interpretations to published standards issued changes in the titles of some of the financial statements to standardise that are not relevant for the Groups operations or not expected to accounting terminology for example, the balance sheet is renamed a change accounting policies statement of financial position.
The new titles will be used in accounting On 29 March 2007 the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 23 standards, but are not mandatory for use in financial statements.
Borrowing Costs that removed the option to recognise specific The revised standard will come into effect for the annual periods borrowing costs, that relate to assets that take a substantial period beginning on or after 1 January 2009, but early adoption is permitted.
of time to get ready for use or sale, as expenses.
The Group does The revised standard has not yet been adopted by the EU.
The revisions not incur borrowing costs that relate to the specific categories of will result in changes to the presentation of the financial statements but assets in IAS 23. are not expected to change the results or the earnings per share of the On 28 June 2007 the IFRIC published Interpretation IFRIC 13 current period, the comparative period or earlier periods, and the Customer Loyalty Programmes.
This interpretation clarifies the Groups financial position at the end of each such period.
accounting treatment for customer loyalty award credits granted On 10 January 2008 the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 by an entity when providing goods or services.
Business Combinations and an amended version of IAS 27 On 4 July 2007 the IFRIC published Interpretation IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The revisions The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding include the following changes to existing accounting practice: Requirements and their Interaction.
This interpretation clarifies the An equity interest in a subsidiary entity that is not held by the reporting value that may be placed upon an asset arising from the surplus within and controlling entity is now described as a non controlling interest a pension fund sponsored by the reporting entity and also the impact currently described as a minority interest of its commitments to provide funding to its pension funds.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to a non controlling interest On 17 January 2008 the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 Share even if this results in the non controlling interest having a deficit balance Based Payment.
The amendment clarifies the accounting treatment of the cancellation of share option arrangements by the option holder.
A change in a controlling interest arising from a transaction between a controlling interest and a non controlling interest that does not result On 14 February 2008 the IASB issued Amendments to IAS 32 in a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations In a business combination, the acquiring company must measure the Arising on Liquidation.
The amendment requires certain financial non controlling interest at either fair value or as the non controlling instruments with particular features and meeting specific conditions, interests proportionate share of the identifiable net assets.
Currently which previously would be classified as debt instruments, to be only the second basis is permitted classified as equity instruments.
The Group does not issue such Costs incurred by the acquirer in connection with a business instruments.
combination must be accounted for separately from the business None of the above are anticipated to have a material impact on the combination.
This will result in such costs being expensed and not Group financial statements.
