Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 127 Financial calendar 27 February 2008 Announcement of the full year results for 2007, the ordinary final dividend for 2007 and the first preference dividend for 2008 5 March 2008 Ex dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 and the first preference dividend for 2008 7 March 2008 Record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 and the first preference dividend for 2008 13 March 2008 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 1 April 2008 Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2008 8 May 2008 Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by Equiniti Limited in relation to the ordinary final dividend for 2007 19 May 2008 Annual General Meeting 6 June 2008 Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM 7 August 2008 Announcement of the half year results for the six months ended 30 June 2008, the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 and the second preference dividend for 2008 13 August 2008 Ex dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 15 August 2008 Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 21 August 2008 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 27 August 2008 Ex dividend date for the second preference dividend for 2008 29 August 2008 Record date for the second preference dividend for 2008 1 October 2008 Payment date for the second preference dividend for 2008 31 October 2008 Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by Equiniti Limited in relation to the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 28 November 2008 Payment of the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 provisional date 128 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Important disclaimer This document contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private actions of regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and solvency Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to certain of the Companys requirements, the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as performance and results.
These statements are often, but not always, made through use the impact of tax and other legislation and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which of words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, believe, is the Company and its affiliates operate.
As a result, the Companys actual future financial anticipated, estimated, intends, plans, seeks, projection, outlook and aims.
By their condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and nature, all forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to expectations set forth in the Companys forward looking statements.
The Company future events and circumstances which are beyond the Companys control, including undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements save in respect of any amongst other things, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, market requirement under applicable law or regulation.
related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and Introduction We are a leading general insurer delivering 1 Highlights 2 At a glance sustainable profitable performance.
4 Chairmans statement 6 Group CEOs review We operate in 28 countries and provide Business review 11 Group strategy general insurance products and services 12 Progress against strategic priorities in over 130 countries.
14 International business review 17 UK business review 20 Emerging Markets business review Our portfolio of businesses is diverse and 23 Financial review 27 Risk framework provides exposure to markets at different 30 Corporate responsibility 32 Executive team points in the insurance cycle.
34 Board of Directors Governance 2007 has been another strong year.
37 Directors report 40 Corporate governance 45 Remuneration report 52 Directors emoluments and interests Financial statements 57 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 58 Consolidated income statement 59 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 60 Consolidated balance sheet 61 Consolidated cashflow statement 62 Significant accounting policies 70 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies 73 Risk management 84 Notes to the financial statements 118 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 119 Parent Company balance sheet 120 Statement of changes in equity of the Parent Company 121 Parent Company cashflow statement 122 Notes to the separate financial Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing statements Visit www.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
For a discussion Directors photography by Homer Sykes and Liam Bailey of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the Important disclaimer on Executive Team by Liam Bailey page 128.
Pages 1 to 31 constitute the business review of RSA and are incorporated by reference into the Other information Photography for front cover and page 15 supplied by Corbis directors report set out on pages 37 to 39.
The directors report has been drawn up and presented in Photography for pages 18 and 21 supplied by Getty Images 125 Shareholder information accordance with, and in reliance upon applicable English Company Law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
127 Financial calendar Printed by Royle Print on Revive 75 Special Silk which has a minimum 50% post consumer waste, maximum 25% virgin fibre and 25% Mill broke: and Revive uncoated which is 100% post consumer waste.
The printer and papers are accredited ISO 14001 and are CarbonNeutral.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2007 UNDERWRITING PROGRESS www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2007 RSA Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 UNDERWRITING PROGRESS www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Directors photography by Homer Sykes and Liam Bailey Executive Team by Liam Bailey Photography for front cover and page 15 supplied by Corbis Photography for pages 18 and 21 supplied by Getty Images Printed by Royle Print on Revive 75 Special Silk which has a minimum 50% post consumer waste, maximum 25% virgin fibre and 25% Mill broke.
The printer and paper are accredited ISO 1400I and are CarbonNeutral.
Introduction We are a leading general insurer delivering 1 Highlights 2 At a glance sustainable profitable performance.
37 Directors report 40 Corporate governance 45 Remuneration report 52 Directors emoluments and interests Financial statements 57 Independent auditors statement to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 58 Summary consolidated income statement 59 Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 59 Summary consolidated balance sheet 60 Summary consolidated cashflow statement 61 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Other information 64 Shareholder information ibc Financial calendar Visit www.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
For a discussion of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the Important disclaimer on the inside back cover.
Pages 1 to 31 constitute the business review of RSA and are incorporated by reference into the directors report set out on pages 37 to 39.
The directors report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon applicable English Company Law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Introduction Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 1 HIGHLIGHTS Strong results in challenging market conditions Increased net written premiums by 6% Operating result up 4% to 814m Underlying return on equity 21.3% Completed buyout of Codan minorities Successful US exit Increased dividend 19% to 7.01p Net written premiums Combined operating ratio Underlying return on equity Dividend 21.3% 7.01p 5,837m 94.9% 5,837 94.9 7.01 21.6 21.3 94.1 20.7 93.3 5.87 5,484 4.74 5,300 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 2007 2006 Results Net written premiums 5,837m 5,484m Operating result 814m 780m Profit after tax from continuing operations 641m 479m Profit loss after tax 628m 20 m Balance sheet at 31 December Shareholders funds 3,077m 2,561m Net asset value per share 91p 82p Dividend Total dividend for the year per ordinary share 7.01p 5.87p Underlying return on equity 21.3% 20.7% Combined operating ratio COR : The ratio of claim costs and expenses including commission to premiums 2 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 AT A GLANCE A strong and diversified International portfolio, balanced between International comprises our businesses in the mature markets of Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland and Italy.
attractive mature markets and emerging markets with higher growth potential Scandinavia accounts for 55% of International premiums.
Our businesses, Codan in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden, are ranked third largest in their respective markets.
We have recently increased our presence in Norway and expanded into Finland.
In Canada, we are the sixth largest general insurer.
The business comprises Johnson Corporation, one of Canadas leading direct writers, as well as our Personal and Commercial Broker operations.
In Ireland, we are focused on the broker channel and are the leading provider of household insurance.
Our Italian business distributes the majority of its products through non tied agents, with a network focused in northern Italy.
Net written premiums 2,513m Scandinavia 1,379m Canada 703m Other Europe 431m Introduction Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 3 UK Emerging Markets We are the UKs largest Commercial and third largest Emerging Markets is our fastest growing region, Personal lines insurer.
covering 20 markets with high growth potential.
Our Commercial business writes property, motor liability and marine Latin America accounts for 57% of Emerging Markets premiums.
Property is the largest segment, accounting for over 39% of largest operations are based in Chile, where we are the market leader, premiums.
The business has a strong reputation for technical excellence.
We are also the largest private insurer in Uruguay.
It insures around 80% of FTSE 100 retailers and is one of the leading carriers of professional & financial and marine risks outside Lloyds We are the largest general insurer in the Baltics, with market leading of London.
positions in Latvia and Lithuania, and in 2007 we expanded into Estonia.
Our Personal business is ranked third largest in the UK, and writes business We are located in eight countries across Asia and the Middle East, through the broker, affinity and direct channels.
MORE TH N, our direct including India and China.
business has around 2.3 million covers in place and provides household, motor, travel and pet insurance.
Our Affinity business provides a range Our Central and Eastern European joint venture owns Link4, the leading of insurance products to the retail customers of our corporate partners, direct insurer in Poland.
We established a similar operation in the Czech and has grown by 23% since 2005.
Republic in 2007 and plan to launch in Russia in 2008.
Net written premiums Net written premiums 2,688m 615m Commercial Latin America 1,614m 350m Baltics Personal 154m 1,074m Asia & Middle East 111m 4 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Chairmans statement MOvING FORWARDS In my Statement last year I referred Continued discipline in the UK with strong growth in Affinity and in MORE TH N to our Company as having a quality Completion of our exit from the U. S. A. set of businesses, led by strong and following receipt of formal U. S. Regulatory effective management.
This made approval by Arrowpoint, the background our Company well able in relative to which was reported in detail in last terms, to face with confidence world years report.
I also spoke of our plans to both improve and grow Our financial and strategic results are profitably our portfolio of businesses commendable in their own right, but even more and enhance our leadership position so when it is considered that they were achieved in the markets in which we choose against a background of greater financial and to operate.
The financial results market turbulence and adverse large losses and we have achieved in 2007 have fully unexpected weather results, particularly in the UK.
The UK floods gave an additional challenge lived up to those expectations, to our management who responded actively and include: and sensitively to the needs of our customers affected by the flood calamities.
Our capability Growth in net written premiums of 6% to meet an emergency is an important measure A strong investment result of performance and a reflection of the social as An improvement in operating results well as the commercial role of insurance A significant increase in post tax profits companies in society.
Growth in shareholders funds and balance sheet strength The common theme that runs through these An improvement in credit rating to a full results is management excellence in the strategic, A grade.
operational and financial performance of our businesses.
We continue to review and improve Our strategies are both general and specific.
We continue to exercise leadership on risk assessment and rate where and when necessary to ensure we achieve sustainable business performance.
Specific strategic actions in our regions have included: Further strengthening of International with the purchase of the Codan minorities and acquisition growth in Canada Strong premium growth in Emerging Markets via organic growth and entry into new markets, particularly China and the Baltics and use of selected JV acquisitions to strengthen our proposition and prospects in Eastern Europe Introduction Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 5 our control environment whether it be in the A further indication of the Boards confidence On a final note, there will be a Resolution at the assessment of risk and reinsurance, underwriting in the future of the business was given by the AGM to change the name of the Company from discipline or the imperative of achieving increase in the final dividend of 10%, giving a Royal & SunAlliance to RSA.
This follows the sustainable profitable growth.
We remain total dividend increase for the 2007 year of 19%.
restructuring process started in 2003 and the conservative in relation to a prudent reserving This follows the 35% increase in the 2006 final subsequent fusion of the Company into a policy and continue to pursue a high quality, low dividend and the 42% increase in the 2007 stronger, cohesive and strategically positioned risk investment strategy.
interim dividend made following a review of business, combined with the development of dividend policy announced last year.
a management ethos based on excellence and Management excellence and a performance achievement.
Whilst a major transformation culture is embedded at all levels in the Company.
In summary therefore, a strong set of results to RSA has been achieved, there still remain There is a bonus pay related plan focused on achieved in difficult and uncertain financial improvements to make, and opportunities to superior performance.
Results which reflect a dedicated and realise and we are fully focused on continuing Development Programme is in its fourth year, effective Management Team and the efforts of to deliver our goal of sustainable profitable from which two-thirds progress to senior all our colleagues and employees, whom the performance.
We expect to progress further management positions.
We continue to both Board thanks on behalf of shareholders.
On in 2008. promote from within the business and recruit outlook we believe, as in previous years, and as senior talent to strengthen our overall expertise set out in the opening sentences of this report, and performance.
we have the opportunity and ability to continue to develop and deliver a relative increase in Our confidence in our performance has led the profit and profitability and to strategically Remuneration Committee and Board to enhance our market positions where we choose John Napier increase the target range of expected ROE to operate.
We believe we also have the Chairman performance for LTIP awards by two percentage experience and control processes to operate points.
We believe this increase is an appropriate effectively in what we expect will continue to be target that compares favourably with our peers.
difficult and demanding market environments.
It equally importantly provides a strong alignment between management reward and shareholder return.
Our capability to meet an emergency is an important measure of performance and a reflection of the social as well as the commercial role of insurance companies in society.
6 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Group CEOs review ACHIEvING OUR TARGETS 2007 has been a good year for the and during 2007, we completed the buyout of Operating result the Codan minorities and are delighted to have Group and in challenging market this business under our full ownership.
conditions, we have again delivered 814m a strong performance.
The results 814 We have also further strengthened our capital have been achieved against the position, and I am pleased we achieved our goal backdrop of a competitive rate 780 of regaining our full A credit rating from environment, adverse large losses Standard & Poors last December.
and weather, including the UK 743 floods, and volatile investment Strong financial performance markets.
The results clearly demonstrate the benefit of our strong In 2007 we increased net written premiums by and diversified portfolio and our tight 6% to 5.8bn, with growth across all three operational and financial management.
regions coming from both organic initiatives and our bolt on acquisitions.
International grew ahead of the market, Emerging Markets 05 06 07 We have continued to deliver on our strategic delivered double digit growth and, in the UK, priorities.
The disposal of our US business last we targeted profitable growth in Personal and March resolved our last remaining legacy issue Commercial specialty lines.
and we are now solely focused on continuing to deliver our objective of sustainable The underwriting result was 278m and was profitable performance.
after the UK flood losses of 120m, as well as adverse weather and large loss experience Our results clearly demonstrate the strength across the Group.
The combined operating of the Group.
All our regions International, ratio COR for the Group was 94.9%, which Emerging Markets and the UK have achieved included 2.1% for the flood losses.
The profitable growth and strong bottom line operating result increased by 4% to 814m and results.
International and Emerging Markets benefited from the strong underwriting result delivered over 50% of the Groups premiums and a 13% increase in the investment result to 2007 2006 Net written premiums 5,837m 5,484m Underwriting result 278m 310m Operating result 814m 780m Combined operating ratio 94.9% 93.3% Underlying return on equity 21.3% 20.7% Introduction Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 7 629m, which was driven by our high quality dealerships and internet channels.
Codan is a UK portfolio and low risk investment strategy.
very attractive business with excellent The UK remains our most competitive market prospects and following the minority buyout, but we continue to target profitable growth in Profit after tax rose significantly to 628m, and as part of the ongoing financial management Personal and Commercial lines.
We continued benefiting from one of the early actions taken of the Group, we have identified and released to take a disciplined approach to risk selection post the Codan minority buyout.
and rating, and premiums were up 3% to 2.7bn.
In terms of underwriting, the UK Regional overview In Canada, premiums were up 6% 9% on delivered a profit of 65m and a COR of 97.6%, constant exchange to 703m, with Johnson even after the impact of the floods.
International delivering 8% growth 11% on constant Our objective in International is to drive the exchange and good performances from both In Personal, premiums were up 27% to 1.1bn.
businesses harder and deliver growth ahead of our Commercial and Personal Intermediated MORE TH N had another strong year with the market.
We have made good progress in businesses.
We are now the market leader in premiums up 8% and new business up 10%.
2007 with some excellent performances from British Columbia following the acquisition of We have made excellent progress on customer the individual businesses.
Premiums were up 8% Canadian Northern Shield, which completed focused initiatives and over 170,000 customers to 2.5bn, driven by expanded distribution and in December 2007. signed up to our new Personal Customer targeted acquisitions.
Were delivering on our plans increased 38% to 206m, and the COR In Other Europe, Ireland continues to perform to significantly grow our Affinity business.
As expected, strongly, driven by EGI, our specialty motor Premiums were up 18% and we won five new International contributed the largest share of insurer and in Italy premiums were up by 14% deals in the year worth around 50m.
as we expanded our agent network.
In Scandinavia, we successfully completed the Codan minority buyout and in 2007, Codan continued to deliver strong results and above market growth.
Premiums were up 8% to 1.4bn, driven by a good performance from White Label, our 2006 acquisition, and continued growth in bancassurance, car 8 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Group CEOs review continued In Commercial, net written premiums were capabilities, putting a high quality central team in Premiums were up 11% 15% on constant down 9% to 1.6bn as we maintained our place and making two new CEO appointments exchange in Latin America driven by a strong commitment to underwriting discipline and the in India and China.
Across the region there are performance in Chile and good growth in withdrawal of capacity from areas of the market exciting opportunities for profitable growth.
Marine across Brazil and Mexico.
During 2007, where the rate, terms and conditions do not meet We already have established positions in Latin we also took the opportunity to exit the our underwriting criteria.
Our focus on specialty America, Asia and the Middle East and the Venezuelan market, as it was not a market lines is paying off.
In Marine, premiums were up by Baltics and we are targeting double digit where we wanted to increase our exposure.
8% and during the year we launched six new premium growth.
trading units, including Property Investors, In Asia and the Middle East, premiums were up Construction and Engineering, and Risk Solutions.
In 2007, premiums were up 16% 19% on 8% 15% on constant exchange, driven by a constant exchange to 615m reflecting strong strong motor performance in the UAE.
We Emerging Markets growth across all markets.
The underwriting were also the first European insurer to secure Emerging Markets had a strong first year as a result increased 64% to 18m and the COR approval for a subsidiary licence for our Chinese separate region.
In 2007, we focused on building was 2 points better at 95.3%.
business and this will enable us to accelerate our Industry overview 2007 was a challenging year for the The flooding events in the summer meant that by high quality bonds and cash.
We have no the Governments management and funding of exposure to US subprime mortgage securities industry with a competitive rating flood defences was pushed right to the top of and we reported a stronger investment result environment, adverse weather the political agenda.
The Government was this year.
losses and financial market turmoil.
criticised by the Association of British Insurers In addition, there were and other industry players for allocating less In the EU, the main focus was the appearance developments on future regulation funding for flood defences in the Pre Budget of the Commissions proposal for a Solvency II with the European Commission Review than the industry had asked for.
The Directive on capital requirements for insurance issuing its proposal for the industry has continued to push for increased companies.
The Directive is intended to replace Solvency II Directive.
spending on flood defences and more outdated European insurance legislation with a responsible planning decisions in response to consolidated set of requirements for supervision, The rating environment in 2007 has remained the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Select capital, risk management and reporting.
It should mixed by business class and region.
As a Group Committee Enquiry on Flooding and the Pitt help improve the effectiveness of supervision we benefited from our broad portfolio which Review on Lessons Learned from the 2007 floods.
of insurance groups by helping to transfer best gave us a balance of exposure to different practice and skills between supervisors.
The markets at different points in the cycle.
In the There has been much speculation about the Commissions proposal will be debated and UK, weve been consistent in our strategy and impact of the turmoil in the credit markets on amended by the European Parliament and actions, putting rate through where required in the industry.
We already had in place a low risk Council of Ministers during 2008.
RSA is very both Personal and Commercial lines.
We investment strategy and took action during the supportive of the Commissions proposal and expect a similar picture in 2008 with a mixed year to further strengthen the defensive nature has been lobbying to that effect through the rating environment by region and class.
of our investment portfolio, which is dominated Association of British Insurers and the Treasury and also directly with policymakers in Brussels.
Introduction Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 9 expansion plans and open a network of On rate, we put through increases across the Combined operating ratio branches across China.
In Canada, we increased rate in Household by 5%, while Personal Motor 94.9% Growth was particularly strong in the Baltics, was flat throughout the year.
We received 94.9 with premiums up 35%.
We have strengthened approval for small net increases in Ontario 94.1 our number one position in Lithuania and Motor and will be making further rate filings 93.3 expanded into new markets, opening our during 2008.
Canadian Commercial lines Estonian operation in November.
remained competitive and rates overall were down.
However, this is against the backdrop of Finally, in Eastern Europe, we are building good significant increases over the last few years and momentum through our joint venture.
We are it remains a profitable market.
the leading direct writer in Poland, have launched in the Czech Republic, and plan to In the UK, we have been consistent in our open in Russia in 2008. strategy and in our actions and have continued to put rate through the book where required.
Delivering sustainable profitable In Personal, we put rates up by mid single digits 05 06 07 performance as we have done consistently over the last five years.
In Commercial, we increased rates in While 2007 was a strong year, our goal is to Property by 3% and in Motor by 8%.
Liability deliver sustainable profitable performance over was down 1% but this compares to a 9% the long term, and that is what we have achieved reduction at the same time in 2006. over the last four years with combineds in the mid 90s.
This sustained performance reflects On expenses, we continue to take action to our strong and diversified portfolio and is improve our efficiency and performance.
underpinned by our tight operational and We have met our original 130m expense financial management.
savings target ahead of schedule and are on track to deliver an additional 70m of savings Operational management by the middle of 2008.
During 2007, we have continued to take the right action on rate and expenses, as well as In terms of building and expanding our continuing to build and improve our capabilities.
capabilities, we have taken a number of actions While 2007 was a strong year, our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable performance over the long term, and that is what we have achieved over the last four years with combineds in the mid 90s.
10 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Group CEOs review continued in 2007.
We further strengthened the Executive Strong outlook Our new brand Team with three significant new appointments: As we move the business forward, now is an Tim Mitchell was appointed as Group During 2007, we resolved our last remaining appropriate time to simplify and refresh our Underwriting and Claims Director, Clare Salmon legacy issue and we are now fully focused on corporate brand.
Royal & SunAlliance was joined us as Group Strategy, Marketing and continuing to deliver our objective of sustainable created over 10 years ago as the product of Customer Director and David Weymouth profitable performance.
With our strong the merger and given the fundamental changes joined us as Group Operations and IT Director.
portfolio and the actions we are taking, we are that the business has gone through we wanted confident that we will continue to deliver the to develop a new brand strategy to support Our underwriting and claims skills are market profitable performance that we have seen over our growth plans.
As part of this we have leading and provide a genuine source of the last few years.
refreshed and modernised our identity and competitive advantage.
We launched our will now be known simply as RSA.
Technical Academy in 2006 to develop the We are seeing exciting opportunities for next generation of talent and this year we profitable growth across the portfolio with added a global technical graduate programme good topline momentum across the Group.
that aims to attract high calibre new entrants We expect to achieve above market growth into the industry.
in International, targeted profitable growth in the UK, while continuing to take the right Finally, we have made real progress on action on rate, and double digit growth in employee engagement and our annual global Emerging Markets.
employee survey showed further Across our international markets, RSA is a improvements this year with the overall We are confident that each region will continue brand which is more accessible for both our satisfaction response up 2%.
Listening to our to deliver strong results and we expect customers and staff, many of whom already employees feedback and acting on it is a key International to again deliver the majority of refer to us as RSA.
We also want to maximise part of our culture.
That is why the work that the Groups underwriting result in 2008, led by the benefits of an international brand to has been undertaken on our brand has been a strong Scandinavian performance.
support our businesses in their local shaped by significant input from more than markets and you will start to see brands 600 employees from across the Group.
Our overriding commitment is to sustainable such as MORE TH N and Codan more profitable performance and as we announced heavily endorsed by RSA.
The new identity Financial management with our full year results we expect to deliver is being used for the first time in this In terms of financial management, we continue a combined ratio of around 95% in 2008.
Annual Review and Summary Financial to exercise strong control.
This is clearly evident Statements and we will introduce the new in our approach to reinsurance which protected style over time as part of a managed roll out us against the impact of the UK floods.
We also process, keeping the cost of the changeover maintain a strong reserving policy and have in to a minimum.
place a high quality, low risk investment strategy.
Our investment portfolio is dominated by high Andy Haste quality bonds and cash and we have taken Group CEO further action to strengthen the defensive nature of the portfolio.
George covers this in more detail in his Financial review.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 11 Group strategy OUR STRATEGy We are a leading Structure We derive real advantage from being a pure general insurer.
Our focus on doing one thing and doing it well is evident in our general insurer attention to detail, rigorous control and our actions.
delivering sustainable We have strong positions in attractive markets and a profitable performance balanced portfolio of businesses.
The shape of the portfolio is deliberate: Our strategy is based on delivering Our geographic spread gives us exposure to markets at different our strategic priorities of: points in the insurance cycle and different stages of development It allows us to shift capacity to where we see the best opportunities Strong annual earnings In each of our markets there are opportunities for targeted Targeted profitable growth profitable growth Driving operational excellence Key to delivering these strategic Capabilities Our technical skills are market leading: in both underwriting and priorities are our structure, claims they are a source of real competitive advantage.
our capabilities and our focus on delivery.
In 2007, we added to these skills with new executive appointments in Underwriting and Claims, Strategy, Marketing and Customer and Operations and IT.
These appointments support our focus on driving profitable growth and operational excellence.
We are building for the future through our Technical Academy, Executive Development Programme, Leadership Development Programme and FastTrack, our programme for high potential early career candidates.
More recently, we launched the Operational Development Programme to develop expertise and strong careers in operations, with the aim of creating processes and systems that will become another source of competitive advantage.
Delivery Our track record of successful execution is underpinned by our focus on personal accountability and performance management.
Key to delivery is having the right culture and right people.
We are focused on developing talent through creating an environment where responsibilities and accountabilities are clearly defined, people are challenged and performance rewarded.
We have embedded a strong performance culture across the Group.
12 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Group strategy continued PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Strategic priorities Strong annual earnings Areas of focus Our strong portfolio allows us to shift capacity to where we see the best returns We are committed to underwriting discipline and taking the right action on rate We have a tightly controlled risk appetite and underwriting process and a conservative reinsurance policy The sustainability of our earnings is further underpinned by our reserving policy, high quality investment portfolio, and our balance sheet strength Progress in 2007 Strong combined operating ratio delivered in challenging conditions In 2007, the Group delivered another strong profitable performance, demonstrating the resilience of our earnings.
This result reflects the strength and diversity of our portfolio, the actions we have taken on rate and expenses, as well as our prudent reinsurance programme and investment policy.
Key performance Combined operating ratio Operating result indicators 94.9% 814m 94.9 94.9 814 814 94.1 94.1 93.3 93.3 780 780 743 743 05 06 07 05 06 05 07 06 07 05 06 07 2008 priorities 2008 combined operating ratio expected to be around 95% We will continue to use the portfolio to shift capacity to where we see the highest returns.
We remain committed to underwriting discipline and taking the right action on rate.
Given the actions that we are taking, we are confident that we will continue to deliver sustainable profitable performance in 2008 and beyond.
B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 13 Targeted profitable Driving operational growth excellence We target profitable growth in our core trades segments which we We continue to focus on operational excellence and deliver on our know well and have competitive advantage, such as Marine, where expense savings targets we are one of the leading carriers outside Lloyds of London Our technical skills are market leading and a source of real We are using our strong customer focus to develop targeted competitive advantage.
We will continue to invest in these skills and propositions and maximise retention in the next generation through our Technical Academy and global Our focus on customer differentiation for our partners and their development programmes customers is driving rapid growth in the Affinity segment in the UK We continue to attract top talent from both inside and outside the Across the Group, we have benefited from expanding distribution insurance industry.
We have instilled a strong performance culture, with as well as targeted acquisitions over 90% of our employees having their pay linked to their performance 6% growth in net written premiums 180m annualised expense savings delivered ahead of schedule Net written premiums are up 6%, reflecting above market growth in We have achieved this through a reduction in headcount of around 2,000, International, strong double digit growth in Emerging Markets and IT and procurement savings, lower premises costs and a 27% reduction targeted growth in the UK.
This result reflects our positive rating action, in central expenses.
The 2007 impact of these annualised savings was an organic growth in target segments and the benefits of the bolt on in year P&L benefit of 125m, offset by implementation costs of 75m.
Net written premiums Expense savings delivered Expense ratio 5,837m 125m 17% 18.2 18.2 5,837 5,837 125 125 17.4 17.4 5,484 5,484 17.0 17.0 5,300 5,300 60 60 05 06 07 05 06 07 06 07 05 0606 0707 05 06 07 Opportunities for profitable growth across the portfolio Further savings to be delivered by mid 2008 Our overriding focus remains on maintaining underwriting discipline Our operational improvement programme has improved our efficiency and taking the right action on rate.
International will continue to drive and performance.
Our objective is to increase our annualised savings from profitable above market growth by expanding distribution and using a the 180m delivered at the 2007 year end to our targeted 200m by mid segmented approach to target profitable niches.
In the UK, the focus 2008, and we are on track to deliver this.
will remain on maintaining discipline and targeting profitable growth.
Emerging Markets will continue to leverage Group best practice to drive strong double digit growth.
14 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Business review INTERNATIONAL 2007 2006 Net written premiums 2,513m 2,334m Underwriting result 206m 149m Combined operating ratio 91.3% 93.1% International has had another strong in profitable segments where our technical expertise gives us competitive advantage.
year, delivering above market growth, and strong improvements in the Simon Lee Customer focus is central to our propositions underwriting result and the COR.
Chief Executive, International businesses and we are optimising customer reach Business overview through our multi channel distribution strategy, with strong Intermediary, Affinity International comprises the Groups operations and Direct propositions.
in Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland and Italy.
These businesses have strong positions in attractive We delivered our target of 40m of annualised markets and we aim to outperform in terms expense savings one year ahead of schedule, of both growth and profitability.
and have committed to delivering a further 20m in savings by mid 2008.
Key strategies Progress against strategies We are committed to delivering sustainable profitable performance.
We are using three International delivered another strong levers to drive the business forward and performance in 2007, with 8% premium growth outperform the competition: to 2,513m and a 1.8 point improvement in the COR to 91.3%.
International contributed the Delivering profitable growth ahead of the majority of the Groups underwriting result, market, by pursuing a segmented approach, at 206m, which was a 38% increase on 2006. expanding our distribution and through selected acquisitions Scandinavia Leveraging our market leading capabilities in Scandinavia is a significant component of the underwriting and claims International portfolio and 24% of the RSA Applying a rigorous approach to driving Group.
Codan and Trygg-Hansa hold the continuous operational efficiencies across number three positions in Denmark and the business.
Sweden respectively, and we have recently increased our presence in Norway and The combination of our geographic spread and expanded into Finland.
In 2007, Scandinavia targeted, segmented approach means that we delivered above market growth of 8% and can choose to expand in specific areas at different improved the COR by 2.3 points to 91.4%.
points in the insurance cycle.
We target growth Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 15 Leaders in renewable energy We have over 25 years experience in the renewable energy sector, and our technical capability has made us a market leader in several markets including Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Ireland.
In 2007, we launched a Global Renewable Energy business, bringing together over 300 engineers and renewable energy underwriters.
Through our global network of offices we service some of the most prominent players in the renewable sector, including technology manufacturers, utility companies, financiers and developers.
We have increased our presence in the Wind, Hydro, Bio-Energy and Solar Energy sectors and have developed market leading solutions for our customers and brokers.
We are well on track to position RSA as the key insurance solutions provider in this important global sector.
Further details can be seen on www.
16 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Key targets 2007 achievements Profitable growth ahead of the market Net written premium growth of 8% and a COR of 91.3% Strengthen number three position in Denmark and Sweden Net written premium growth exceeds market growth in both countries Strong double digit growth in Johnson Net written premium growth 11% on constant exchange 40m of annualised savings by mid 2008 Achieved mid 2007, new target of a further 20m announced Scandinavian expense ratio sub 15% by mid 2008 Scandinavian expense ratio 15.3% Canadian Intermediated expense ratio sub 10% by mid 2008 Canadian Intermediated expense ratio 10.5% Personal delivered a 10% increase in net written supplemented by the impact of acquisitions Other Europe premiums, reflecting the strong performance of made in 2006, and now represents 36% of Other Europe comprises our operations in WLI, our 2006 acquisition as well as continued the Canadian business.
Johnson is one of the Ireland and Italy and continues to deliver strong double digit growth in the bancassurance and leading direct writers in Canada and during above market growth with premiums up 10%.
Our car dealership the year we signed a national agreement with The COR improved by 3.7 points to 89.1% channel gives us access to 30% of the Swedish AIR MILES, Canadas leading loyalty rewards and the underwriting result increased by 43% and Danish car markets, and this year we have programme, which has over nine million to 40m.
Ireland delivered another strong increased premiums by over 90%.
performance, with growth driven by EGI, channel is a market leading provider in the specialty lines insurer acquired in 2006.
Scandinavia, and increased premiums by 47% Personal Broker grew 10% in 2007, with both during the year.
Travel and Property contributing significantly.
Italy continued to outperform the market with During the year we further strengthened the 14% premium growth.
Focused in northern In Commercial lines, we have maintained strong broker distribution channel with the addition Italy, we operate through brokers and non tied momentum across the region.
During 2007 we expanded our leading position in Marine Hull and have also benefits from the agreement with AIR MILES.
distribution network, adding 34 new agencies benefited from our acquisition of the Pohjola and 12 new brokers.
Marine portfolio in Finland, which gives us a Commercial net written premiums were flat at 40% share of the Finnish marine market.
183m 4% on constant exchange, reflecting a Market conditions In Construction and Engineering, premiums disciplined approach in increasingly competitive are up by 13% across the region, building on market conditions.
The COR improved by During the year, we have seen some challenging our strong position in the Danish market.
3.7 points to 90.3% and the underwriting conditions within our regional markets and the result improved by 125%.
With a focus on rating environment is showing some signs of Canada operational excellence, we have driven further increasing competitiveness.
Our niche, Canada has delivered another excellent efficiencies by investing in our technology segmented approach has benefited us in this performance.
Net written premiums are up platform, with 90% of our SME portfolio now environment and we are shifting capacity to 6% 9% on constant exchange, while the being quoted online.
where we can see the best returns.
underwriting result of 50m was a 4% improvement on 2006.
This reflects our We also look to acquire businesses that have Outlook continued focus on underwriting excellence, a strategic fit.
The acquisition of Canadian claims and expense management.
The COR Northern Shield diversifies our geographic We have built a track record of delivering strong was in line with 2006 at 92.4%.
spread and makes us the market leader in top and bottom line performance and we are British Columbia and the sixth largest general confident that we have the portfolio, the Johnson, our Personal lines direct business, insurer in Canada.
strategy and the capabilities to continue to delivered 8% growth 11% on constant outperform in our markets, and deliver exchange, with strong organic growth sustainable profitable performance.
We have built a track record of delivering strong top and bottom line performance.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 17 Business review UK 2007 2006 Net written premiums 2,688m 2,618m Underwriting result 65m 160m Combined operating ratio 97.6% 92.3% The UK has delivered another strong and build retention.
We are creating our own space in the affinity market, and our reputation performance in a competitive for delivering quality propositions for our market.
The underwriting result of Bridget McIntyre partners and their retail customers is attracting 65m includes the 120m impact of UK Chief Executive new deals.
the UK floods and other adverse weather and demonstrates continued We achieved our target of 70m of annualised profitability in challenging conditions.
expense savings one year ahead of schedule, and have committed to delivering a further Business overview 50m of savings by mid 2008.
We are targeting a sub 15% expense ratio for the UK business, We are the UKs largest Commercial and and sub 20% expense ratio for MORE TH N. third largest Personal lines insurer.
We are committed to delivering sustainable profitable Progress against strategies performance.
We will only write business that is profitable and are driving growth in segments In 2007, the UK delivered another strong result.
where we can achieve our target returns.
We The business continues to grow profitably, with are committed to underwriting discipline and a 3% increase in net written premiums to actively withdraw capacity in areas of the 2,688m.
The COR of 97.6% includes the market where the rate, terms and conditions impact of the summer floods of 120m, as well do not meet our underwriting criteria.
as other adverse weather through the year.
Excluding the floods, the UK COR was 93.0%.
Key strategies We have continued to take action on rate, In Commercial, we are focusing on specialist and retention remains strong at over 80%.
segments and leveraging our technical expertise The 2007 expense ratio is 17.5%, down from to develop innovative risk solutions, deliver 18.1% in 2006, and MORE TH N delivered profitable growth and manage retention in our its target, with an expense ratio of 19.8%.
Commercial In Personal, we aim to strengthen our number In Commercial, net written premiums were three position by enhancing our customer focus.
down 9% to 1,614m 2006: 1,770m Using increased customer segmentation and reflecting our commitment to underwriting pricing sophistication, we are launching discipline and selective capacity withdrawal.
innovative products to acquire new customers The Commercial COR was 95.9%.
18 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 UK floods The city of Sheffield was hit particularly hard by the June floods.
The River Don rose by 15ft and a 6ft torrent of water swept through the 64 acre site of Sheffield Forgemasters SFIL, the worlds largest independently owned forgemaster and a major local employer.
RSA experts were quickly on the scene, working alongside SFIL to control the scale of the loss.
Our work supported the cashflow of the business, secured the 600 jobs and minimised the business interruption suffered.
Production resumed in July, just weeks after the water receded.
Our proactive stance in understanding management priorities, our flexible approach and our speed in settling the claim, significantly reduced the scale of the final loss.
The Chief Executive of SFIL, praised our exceptional support and said, the final settlement was concluded in a friendly and professional manner and this undoubtedly aided our recovery.
Our response to SFILs claim was also recognised by the Association of British Insurers and by The Prince of Wales.
We work in partnership with our customers, combining our expertise with their specific company needs and together we find the best solution to get them back up and running again as soon as possible.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 19 Key targets 2007 achievements Move to number one in the broker market by choice, We are working with broker partners to strengthen relationships and reputation, capability and profitability by 2010 our customer propositions.
Retention remains strong and we are using a targeted approach to drive growth in specialist lines that are profitable Strengthen number three position in Personal lines Strong growth in MORE TH N, with 8% increase in NWP Grow Affinity business by more than 50% by 2010 from 2005 levels Increased 23% from 2005 levels 70m of annualised savings by mid 2008 Achieved mid 2007, new target of a further 50m announced MORE TH N expense ratio sub 20% by end 2007 MORE TH N expense ratio 19.8% UK expense ratio sub 15% UK expense ratio 17.5%, down from 19.4% in 2005 We continue to focus on implementing our rate web capability saw web sales grow by 160% opportunities for insurers with strong customer plans, maximising retention and driving growth on Household and 30% on Motor since 2005. propositions and efficient broker servicing models.
Marine premiums We continue to focus on driving down cost per increased by 8%, and during the year we launched sale by implementing initiatives to increase cross The Personal market remains competitive, six specialist trading units, including Property sales and marketing efficiency.
In 2007, we won and is evolving with an increase in aggregator Investors, Construction and Engineering, and Risk Precision Marketings Direct Brand of the websites.
Aggregators are an increasing Solutions.
We are successfully using these trading Year Award.
source of business for us, and require stringent units to increase our levels of specialisation within underwriting, high brand recognition and a our target segments, and their niche expertise Affinity continues its good momentum.
We externally benchmark to improve our customer propositions, and we signed five new deals which will bring an the quality of our underwriting and are using opportunities for cross sales.
additional 50m in premiums at full run rate.
our PCMs to build relationships with our With 23% growth in Affinity since 2005, we are aggregator customers to increase retention.
Personal on track to deliver our target of increasing this Net written premiums increased by 27% to business by 50% by 2010.
Outlook 1,074m driven by organic growth and recent Affinity deals including Paymentshield.
The COR Technical capabilities We are committed to maintaining underwriting was 100.6%, which includes 6% in respect of discipline and rigorous risk selection to deliver the floods.
Motor performed strongly, delivering Our technical skills are market leading and a real sustainable profitable performance.
We will a COR of 98.7%, a 3.8 point improvement source of competitive advantage.
During 2007 continue to implement our rate plans and focus over 2006. our Underwriting and Geographical on driving growth in profitable segments.
Assessment teams were awarded the Insurance MORE TH N had another very strong year Times Training Programme of the Year Award In Commercial, we will continue to focus on our with an 8% increase in net written premiums to for their underwriting excellence and training target trades and segments and use our industry 475m, new business sales up 10% and a 7% programme.
The programme has also been recognised technical skills to maintain strong increase in average motor premiums.
accredited by the Chartered Insurance Institute.
We will continue to innovate our product offerings and pricing to realise the We have strengthened our MORE TH N Market conditions growth potential of MORE TH N. In Affinity, brand through the More Is proposition we will continue to target new opportunities and focusing on key customer segments, new The UK is the Groups most competitive market deliver profitable growth from our existing deals.
products that reward customer loyalty and high and we anticipate similar conditions in 2008. levels of service.
Over 170,000 customers have By maintaining discipline and investing in our signed up to our Personal Customer Manager In Commercial, distribution is evolving with capabilities, our UK business will remain well PCM initiative which has had a positive impact increasing consolidation in the broker market and positioned to continue delivering sustainable on retention levels.
Our enhanced the emergence of specialists.
This is creating new profitable performance.
We will continue to implement our rate plans and focus on driving growth in profitable segments.
20 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Business review emerging markets 2007 2006 Net written premiums 615m 531m Underwriting result 18m 11m Combined operating ratio 95.3% 97.3% In its first year, Emerging Markets During 2007, we established a platform to accelerate future growth.
Significant capability delivered strong double digit growth has been added across the region with new in net written premiums, with a 2 point Paul Whittaker CEOs appointed in seven countries.
More than improvement in the COR to 95.3%.
CEO of Emerging Markets 20 senior technical staff have moved from RSAs established businesses into Emerging Markets Business overview to continue our focus on leveraging Group best practice in underwriting discipline and Emerging Markets has operations in 20 operational excellence.
countries across Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, the Baltics and Central and Eastern Centres of underwriting excellence have been Europe.
We are the number one insurer in established in major markets and provide Chile and in the Baltics, a leading international technical expertise to assist our smaller insurer in the Middle East, and through our operations underwrite complex risks.
In Asia joint venture Link4, the leading direct insurer and the Middle East, we have focused on in Poland.
building expertise in Construction and Engineering C&E, and have recruited market By 2010, we aim to double net written leading capability in the hubs of Hong Kong, premiums from 2005 levels in Latin America, Singapore and the Middle East.
This initiative Asia and the Middle East and the Baltics.
has already delivered 51% growth in C&E gross written premiums across the region this year.
Key strategies We see personal insurance sold through affinity We are focused on delivering profitable growth partners such as mobile phone providers and through expanding distribution, disciplined utilities as a major opportunity to satisfy a need underwriting and improving operational for basic insurance products.
Our strategy is to focus on development activity in Latin America in 2007 markets where we can establish a meaningful and these propositions will be rolled out in market presence, either in overall market share Asia and the Middle East in 2008, building on or in segments where we have a competitive the regions competence with established advantage.
We are committed to close affinity partners.
cooperation across the region to develop customer solutions which can be replicated in our territories cost effectively.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 21 Baltics 2007 was a very successful year for the Baltics.
the operations in Latvia and Lithuania reaped the benefits of leveraging group best practice to deliver an excellent underwriting result, and we launched our new operation in estonia.
in Lithuania, our business grew faster than the market, increasing its market share by 3% to 37% whilst maintaining its COr below 90%.
this rapid growth and improved performance was the result of a structured programme to modernise the operational and sales platforms of the business.
We were the first in the market to use differential pricing which allows improved risk selection.
Over 60% of business is now renewed automatically, cutting administration costs and allowing our sales network greater time to focus on new business.
2008 will be a busy year for the Baltics as further operational enhancements are made, however we have demonstrated our ability to successfully manage change and we anticipate another strong year of performance.
22 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 key targets 2007 achievements Double size of Emerging Markets by 2010: 15% growth p. a.
Net written premium growth 19% on constant exchange Latin America COR sub 100% by end 2007 Latin America COR 98.7% We are working with our broker partners to economic conditions.
Our Lithuanian business successfully launched a similar operation in the develop new propositions targeting Small and increased its share of the market by 3% to 37% Czech Republic.
In 2007, Link4 grew premiums Medium sized Enterprises SMEs.
We are and we launched our operation in Estonia in by 38% to 47m, well ahead of the market.
We looking to automate cover on SMEs, reducing November.
The improvement in the COR from look to build on this experience as we roll out our partners servicing costs and we aim to 92.2% to 89.6% demonstrates the results of our our direct proposition in Russia in 2008. replicate this technology across the region.
operational excellence programmes on automatic renewals, pricing and claims.
Market conditions Progress against strategies asia and the middle east Emerging Markets covers a large number of The 2007 results clearly demonstrate the Asia and the Middle East continued to perform countries with diverse economic and regulatory success of these strategies, with 19% premium strongly with 15% premium growth on constant environments.
Common themes include the growth on constant exchange, a 64% increase in exchange, driven by strong Motor performance continued growth in demand for insurance underwriting result to 18m and a 2 point in the UAE, and a COR of 88.8%.
We were products in Personal lines, driven by increasing improvement in the COR to 95.3%.
named Insurer of the Year in the UAE and affluence, and in Commercial lines as strong received positive coverage of our response to GDP growth continues.
Latin america Cyclone Gonu in Oman.
In China, we were the Latin America delivered a 15% growth in net first European insurer to receive a subsidiary Strong GDP growth and low insurance written premiums on constant exchange, licence.
This allows us to accelerate our penetration continue to present exciting market reflecting strong growth in Chile as well as expansion strategy, and subject to regulatory opportunities, and at the same time, attract new in Marine in Brazil and Mexico.
The COR approval, we aim to open 11 branches by 2011, entrants and bring increased competition.
improved by 5 points to 98.7% following giving us access to 45% of the Chinese actions taken to improve profitability.
2008 priorities and outlook result was achieved against the backdrop of a number of weather events in the region, Joint ventures We anticipate 2008 will be an exciting year for including an earthquake in Chile, floods in Both our major joint ventures made good Emerging Markets as we continue to implement Mexico and hailstorms and a tornado in progress during 2007.
India continued to deliver our organic growth strategy.
In December, we took the double digit growth and we have appointed a are building a pipeline of targeted bolt on opportunity to exit the Venezuelan market.
new CEO and continue to focus on accelerating acquisitions to accelerate delivery of our the growth of this business.
Our joint venture in growth objectives.
We are committed to the Baltics Central and Eastern Europe employs a direct underwriting discipline and continuous The Baltics again performed strongly, delivering model in an intermediated world.
It owns Link4, operational improvement to drive sustainable premium growth of 35% driven by positive the leading direct writer in Poland, and in May profitable performance.
Strong GDP growth and low insurance penetration continue to present exciting market opportunities.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 23 Financial review anOther strOng year 1 analysis of result management basis 2007 2006 movement m m % Net written premiums 5,837 5,484 6 Underwriting result 278 310 10 Investment result 629 556 13 Insurance result 907 866 5 Other activities 93 86 8 2 Operating result 814 780 4 george Culmer Interest, amortisation and reorganisation costs 122 130 6 Chief Financial Officer Loss on disposals 22 1 Profit before tax 670 649 3 Taxation 29 170 83 Profit after tax from continuing operations 641 479 34 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 13 499 97 Profit loss after tax 628 20 Combined operating ratio % 94.9 93.3 1.6 pts Shareholders funds 3,077 2,561 20 1 The result is shown on a management basis.
The result on a statutory basis is shown on page 58.
2 A reconciliation between operating result on a management basis and results of operating activities on a statutory basis is shown on pages 84 to 85 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Results overview Net written premiums Underwriting result The underwriting result of 278m In challenging market conditions, the Group Net written premiums are up 6% to 5.8bn 2006: 310m reflects a strong performance has again delivered a strong result.
In 2007, 2006: 5.5bn, demonstrating the strength in challenging conditions and the benefit of we delivered profitable growth in each of our of our portfolio, with above market growth management actions, including our prudent regions and achieved a strong bottom line in International, strong double digit growth reinsurance programme, positive action on performance.
The results have been delivered in Emerging Markets, and targeted growth rating, and the strong and diversified portfolio.
against the backdrop of a competitive rating in the UK.
The current year underwriting loss is 70m environment, adverse large losses and weather, 2006: underwriting profit of 179m and including the UK floods, and volatile investment Operating result includes the impact of the UK floods of 120m, markets.
Our continued delivery of strong as well as adverse weather 73m worse than results clearly demonstrates the benefit of the The operating result is 814m 2006: 780m, 2006 and large loss experience 88m worse strong and diversified portfolio and our tight with an improved investment result offset by than 2006 across the Group.
24 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Financial review continued As in 2006, the prior year underwriting profit in total gains.
The increase in total gains has In 2008, total gains are expected to be in line has been particularly strong and totalled 348m driven the investment result ahead of our with the 2006 total of 82m.
This reflects a continuation of the trend 2007 guidance and follows action taken to seen in the first six months of the year with reduce equity exposure.
Other activities strong positive emergence from our UK Other activities of 93m are 7m higher than in specialist claims unit, as well as the cumulative Investment income is up 15% to 591m, 2006, which reflects a 19% reduction in central impact of actions taken to reduce claims leakage reflecting an increase in bond and cash yields, expenses to 60m 2006: 74m, offset by the in Other Europe.
This compares with a prior with the average underlying yield on the movement in other operating activities.
Other year underwriting profit of 131m in 2006, portfolio increasing from 4% to 4.4%.
operating activities include net gains on non which as reported, was after 164m of reserve Investment income also includes 26m insurance derivatives which benefited from strengthening for Scandinavian PA and UK on the funds withheld account on the a 12m gain in 2006, other non insurance asbestos reserves.
The Group continues to adopt Adverse Development Cover provided to activities, share of results of associates, and a prudent reserving policy for both current year Arrowpoint Capital, which is included in the other costs principally relating to business and overall reserves, and reserves at 31 December 2007 consolidated accounts for the first time.
2007 were stronger than at the start of the year, This is offset by 28m of discount unwind on with particular strength in International.
the related liabilities, which is included in the Interest, amortisation and total unwind of discount of 81m.
reorganisation costs investment result The Group maintains a low risk asset strategy Total gains were 119m 2006: 82m.
Within Interest costs are 104m, up from 92m, with the portfolio dominated by high quality this, realised gains total 174m, reflecting gains reflecting the financing costs for the Codan fixed income and cash assets.
During 2007, on equity sales of 185m, offset by losses on buyout, and the buy back of the residual we undertook a number of actions to enhance bond disposals.
the defensive position of the portfolio, including selling a net 220m of equities in the second Unrealised losses total 55m and Amortisation of 18m was charged in respect and fourth quarters, reducing our limited CDO predominantly comprise the mark to market of intangible assets and goodwill on acquired exposure through selective disposals and movement in the commercial property claims provisions, compared with 15m in 2006. extending bond duration to improve liability portfolio of 42m.
This compares with a 42m matching and lock in higher yields.
increase in 2006 and represents a 9.4% fall in the With the completion of the Groups operational portfolio value, which is broadly in line with the improvement programme in 2006, no The quality of our portfolio and the benefit fall in the IPD index of 10%.
Unrealised losses reorganisation costs have been charged to the of these management actions are clearly also includes charges for vacant investment income statement in 2007 2006: 23m.
demonstrated in the strength of our property costs of 8m, impairments of 3m investment result.
The 2007 investment result and other market movements of 5m offset Loss on disposals is up 13% to 629m, and reflects increased by a 3m gain on exchange.
investment income as well as a 45% increase Loss on disposals are 22m and include a 13m loss on the disposal of Venezuela and a 6m loss on the disposal of the UK Guildhall legacy book.
analysis of investment result management basis The loss on Venezuela comprises a 5m loss on the net assets of the Company and 8m of 2007 2006 Movement foreign exchange, which is recycled from m m % reserves and does not impact Group net assets.
Bonds 391 372 5 The disposal of Guildhall removes 58m of Equities 48 56 14 mostly asbestos and environmental liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 83 63 32 from our balance sheet.
We received 32m Land and buildings 17 13 31 consideration for net assets of 30m, and after Other 52 12 the unwind of the discount of the reserves of investment income 591 516 15 8m, this resulted in a loss of 6m.
Realised gains 174 46 278 Taxation Unrealised gains losses, impairments and foreign exchange 55 36 253 The tax charge is 29m and includes the release Total gains 119 82 45 of 103m of the deferred tax liabilities that had Unwind of discount 81 42 93 been held in respect of Codans Danish Security investment result 629 556 13 Fund and Swedish Safety Reserve.
These Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 25 reserves are held in shareholders equity investment portfolio management basis and following the minority buyout, we have 2007 2006 determined that no future tax liability will arise m m in respect of them.
Accordingly, we have Debt and fixed income securities 9,581 8,568 released these deferred tax provisions.
Cash and cash equivalents 1,509 1,831 Equity securities 1,487 1,620 Profit after tax Investment property 429 454 Other 272 269 Profit after tax is 628m and benefits from the total financial assets 13,278 12,742 strong operating result as well as the release of deferred tax reserves in Codan following completion of the minority buyout.
by 20%, to 3.1bn 2006: 2.6bn primarily experienced no downgrades.
Since year end, The underlying return on equity remains very reflecting the strong retained profits for the year.
we have disposed of 27m of CDOs.
investment portfolio At the year end, equities excluding preference Dividend The investment portfolio totalled 13.3bn at the shares and Collective Investment Vehicles year end compared with 12.7bn at the start of backed by fixed income and cash assets The directors will recommend at the Annual the year and 83% of the portfolio is invested in comprised 8% of the portfolio compared with General Meeting, to be held on 19 May 2008, high quality fixed income and cash assets.
Although the size of the equity a final dividend of 4.53p 2006: 4.12p per share.
fixed interest portfolio remains concentrated portfolio has been reduced, we have maintained This, together with the interim dividend of on high quality short dated assets, with an our equity protection strategy, covering up to 2.48p, will make a total distribution for the year average duration of 3.1 years.
At the end of the 800m of our portfolio.
These derivatives are of 7.01p 2006: 5.87p, an increase of 19% for year, 99% of the bond portfolio was investment a rolling programme of put and call options, the year.
grade, with 86% rated AA or above, a marginal with the quantum and strike levels of coverage increase over the prior year.
Since year end, we have Cashflow taken out an additional 50m of protection The Group has no holdings in monoline insurers on our European equities.
The Groups operating cashflow was 652m and no exposure to credit insured bonds, US in 2007, a decrease of 23% on 2006 which municipal bonds or US subprime Residential The commercial property portfolio represents reflects the impact of the UK floods as well as Mortgage Backed Securities.
The Groups CDO only 3% of investment assets and comprises adverse weather and large loss experience exposure was 130m at the year end and high quality commercial properties, generating across the Group.
The 22m increase in the comprised over 115m of CLOs, which have strong and sustainable rental income and does dividend to minorities to 31m, reflects the not include any development properties.
minorities share of an exceptional dividend Cashflow management basis paid by the Groups non-wholly owned UK subsidiary British Aviation Insurance Company.
2007 2006 The issued share capital of 304m and 223m m m net movement in debt both primarily relate to Operating cashflow 652 851 the Codan minority buyout.
Corporate activity Tax paid 127 118 of 888m includes the buyout of the Codan Interest paid 92 82 minorities of 590m, the disposal of the US Group dividends 111 87 operation and a number of acquisitions in Dividend to minorities 31 9 International and Emerging Markets.
Net cashflow 291 555 Issue of share capital 304 6 The 2006 cashflow has been reanalysed to show Pension deficit funding 86 86 tax paid and issue of share capital separately and Net movement of debt 223 169 to reclassify a 78m investment sale from Corporate activity 888 355 operating cashflow to sale of other investments.
Cash movement 156 49 Balance sheet Represented by: Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 352 443 Our balance sheet and capital position are strong.
Purchase sale of other investments 196 492 In 2007, Group shareholders funds increased 156 49 26 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Financial review continued As at 31 December 2007 unrealised gains in the The ICA is a forward looking, economic pension scheme assumptions during the year balance sheet were 461m 2006: 575m.
assessment of the capital requirements of the for both mortality and inflation.
Group based on our assessment of the risks Capital position to which we are exposed.
The Group has We sold around 900m of equities in the As at 31 December 2007, the Group had an received its Individual Capital Guidance from second quarter, reducing the equity holding in Insurance Groups Directive IGD surplus of the FSA, which at the request of the FSA the pension fund from 46% to 24% at the end approximately 1.5bn, an increase of 0.2bn remains confidential.
At the same time, we extended the from 2006.
The coverage ratio has improved interest rate and inflation swap programme from 1.9 times the IGD requirement at the Rating agencies over the scheme liabilities.
end of 2006 to a very strong 2.5 times the requirement at the end of 2007.
S&P, AM Best and Moodys Investor Service The reduction in the equity exposure has provide insurance financial strength ratings for significantly benefited the scheme, with the At 31 December 2007, the Group had surplus the Group and its principal subsidiaries.
change in asset mix contributing over 75m economic capital of around 2.2bn, up from to the year end surplus position.
2bn at the start of the year, based on a risk In December 2007, S&P upgraded the Group to tolerance consistent with Standard & Poors A stable, the Groups target rating.
The Group Summary S&P long term A rated bond default curve.
was upgraded to A3 positive outlook by Moodys This is equivalent to a probability of solvency in February 2008 and is rated Apositive outlook Our objective is to deliver sustainable profitable over one year of 99.94%.
Details of the Groups ratings can performance, and this is clearly evident in the be found in the Investor Relations section under Groups continued delivery of strong results.
The Group calculates its economic capital Bond Investor Information on the Groups position using a global multi year stochastic website www.
Our tight management of the business, including economic capital model.
The model is a key our relentless action on rate and expenses, decision making tool and is used for a range of Pension fund conservative reinsurance approach and low risk strategic, operational and financial management investment strategy ensured that the Group purposes throughout the Group, and has also The surplus on the pension scheme as at was well positioned to manage 2007s been the basis for the Groups Individual 31 December 2007 is 116m net of tax competitive rating environment, adverse Capital Assessment ICA submissions compared with 24m at the start of the year.
weather losses, including the UK floods and to the FSA since the 2004 year end.
The scheme has benefited from positive market volatile investment markets.
movements and funding payments made during the year.
The Group has strengthened the We remain confident of the Group continuing to deliver sustainable profitable performance, and this is reflected in the 10% increase in the the table below shows the main movements in the pension fund surplus net of tax during 2007 2007 final dividend and our expectation of delivering a COR of around 95% in 2008.
Uk Other group m m m Pension fund at 1 January 2007 72 48 24 Actuarial losses gains 22 6 16 Deficit funding 62 62 Other movements 42 4 46 george Culmer Pension fund at 31 December 2007 154 38 116 Chief Financial Officer Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 27 risk FrameWOrk Overall risk framework Risk framework Compliance with policy statements is mandatory.
Policies are subject to regular The Group operates under an enterprise risk The Group has continued to adopt the review in order to reflect changes in management framework that is designed to three lines of defence governance model.
circumstances and the risk appetite.
identify, assess, measure and manage exposure The framework for the oversight and to risk including environmental, social and management of risk is as follows: Risk categories governance matters.
This process is subject to continuous review and development and Management the first line of defence in The Group views risks according to the further work was undertaken in 2007 to setting strategy, performance measurement, categories outlined below.
Additional information enhance the framework.
establishment and maintenance of internal is provided in the risk management section of control and risk management in the business the financial statements in the full Annual Report Risk management Risk assessment the second line, operating and Accounts.
Details of some of the key current a formal risk management framework within practices, tools and other arrangements for The Board is responsible for the Groups which, the Group policies and minimum each risk category are set out below.
standards are set, and objective oversight and challenge of risk management across the Insurance risk Executive management has the responsibility Group is achieved.
This is provided by the for establishing and implementing appropriate Board Risk Committee, supported by the The Groups general insurance activities are systems and controls in their own areas Group Risk functions, and a Groupwide primarily concerned with the pricing, of remit.
The Group Risk Management network of regional risk committees acceptance and management of risks arising Framework provides the mechanism through Independent assurance the third line of from our contracts with customers.
The which risk management and control is defence, providing independent and objective management of the underwriting and claims embedded throughout the Group.
Each Group assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups risks uses a number of key tools, including the business is required to follow a consistent systems of internal control established by the review of the performance and management process to identify, assess, manage and monitor first and second lines of defence.
This is of all the individual insurance portfolios their key risks.
provided by the Group Audit Committee, throughout the Group, and the investigation supported by Group Internal Audit.
of potential emerging insurance risks.
Group risk appetite Group risk policy statements Further work has been undertaken in 2007 to The Group has a process for setting risk refine and improve the Portfolio Classification appetite and for monitoring compliance with Group risk policy statements set out the process, designed to provide a more effective this.
The Group risk appetite sets business minimum standards to be maintained by the method of evaluating individual and overall volumes for certain higher risk insurance classes, Groups operations in order to manage their portfolio performance.
stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance risks in a way that is consistent with the risk protection, targets for credit rating and solvency appetite.
Business managers are responsible for Claims development and reserving levels are margins, and other appropriate measures.
complying with Group and local risk policies and closely monitored by Reserve Committees.
for managing risk by taking mitigating actions Each regions Reserve Committee determines There is a formal escalation process for where risks are outside the appetite.
The Board a recommended level of outstanding claims potential or emerging risks that are outside Risk Committees oversight and challenge role reserves, in accordance with the Group the risk appetite.
includes consideration of risk mitigation.
The Group Reserving 28 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 risk framework continued Committee considers the reasonableness of A series of forward looking key risk indicators considered to be a low risk category.
It then determines the is used to assess potential future trends in liquidity is managed by Group Treasury and level of aggregate outstanding claims reserves to operational risks, whilst data collected on actual each operation is required to maintain a be carried by the Group.
operational risk incidents and near misses minimum level of cash or cash equivalents or captures past experiences.
In addition, the use highly liquid assets that can be liquidated within Reinsurance risk of scenario analyses enables the Group to assess a maximum stated period of time.
Contingency whether certain operational events that have funding plans are prepared and monitored to The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves ensure that these minimum levels are met even are set and agreed by the Board and published within the Group.
When taken together, the in stressed conditions.
and disseminated via the Group reinsurance tools provide a complementary set of indicators policy statement.
The Group Reinsurance of the Groups operational risk profile.
Regulatory risk Credit Committee oversees the implementation of the counterparty credit aspects of this Credit, market and liquidity risks The Group operates in a number of strategy.
The reinsurance team monitors and geographical locations with diverse regulatory controls reinsurance activity throughout the The primary sources of credit risk within the requirements.
The regulatory environment Group and has responsibility for the purchase of Group are investment and treasury activities has become more complex and demanding.
the Groups worldwide programme of treaties.
Within the The Group continues to respond to these All major treaty purchases are analysed using investment management and treasury activities, developments through its arrangements for various sophisticated modelling tools to ensure a range of bank counterparty concentration regulatory compliance and by ensuring that it that the level of cover purchased is capital and credit quality limits, together with other maintains open and cooperative relationships efficient and aligned with Group risk appetite controls, are in place to ensure that exposure with its regulators.
is managed within the Group risk appetite.
New reinsurance cover is placed with reinsurers Operational risk that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance Counterparties recommended by the Group Operational risk exists in every facet of the Reinsurance Credit Committee under criteria organisation, including those areas that are not approved by the Board Risk Committee.
As such, all areas of the Group and its major outsourcing providers Market risk arises from the Groups investment are involved in addressing and controlling portfolios.
The Global Asset Management operational risk.
Committee is the management committee that oversees the Groups investment strategy The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help under the oversight of the Investment manage operational risk using a common Committee, and operating within risk limits categorisation of risk.
These tools include Risk set by the Board Risk Committee.
and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators, Scenario Analyses, Incident The primary source of liquidity risk is the Management and Loss Data.
Liquidity risk is Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 29 Principal risks and uncertainties Portfolio reviews are carried out across the 4. adverse financial markets impact the business to assess the performance of each investment portfolio and the pension fund In this section we set out the principal risks and portfolio against key performance indicators.
The Group operates a low risk investment uncertainties to delivering our strategy, together Key risk indicators are used to monitor policy, with the investment portfolio dominated with the actions we are taking to minimise emerging trends, opportunities and risks.
by short dated, high quality fixed income and the likelihood that these will occur and any Any portfolio that triggers a key risk indicator cash assets.
potential impact on the future performance is flagged and investigated, with corrective of the business.
In 2007, we have taken steps to further reduce the Groups exposure to market risk, including: 1. rating environment softens significantly in Audits of business won and lost ensure that risks key markets accepted are priced to achieve target returns Reducing equity exposure in the pension fund The Groups overriding objective is to deliver and that underwriting discipline is maintained.
from 46% to 24% at the year end sustainable profitable performance.
Our strong Selling a net 220m of shareholder equities and diverse portfolio provides exposure to 3. adverse loss experience through and hedging up to 800m of the remaining markets at different stages of development catastrophic losses arising from an insurance equity portfolio with derivatives to mitigate at different points in the insurance cycle.
event or series of events, increasing frequency the impact of equity market falls We actively use the portfolio to shift capacity and severity of large losses or deterioration in Ongoing reduction of CDO exposure to where we see the best returns.
long tail reserves through selective disposals The Groups underwriting strategy is set Extending bond duration to improve liability We are committed to underwriting discipline, centrally using risk aggregation models and limits matching and lock in higher yields with a relentless focus on profitability to ensure that risks written are well diversified over volume.
and are within the Groups risk appetite.
While the value of the Groups general insurance bond holdings will be impacted by We continue to invest in our technical skills and Portfolio reviews monitor underwriting interest rate movements, the short dated our sales and marketing capabilities.
We target performance, ensuring that risks accepted are average term of these holdings mitigates their growth where it is profitable through specialist within the Groups risk appetite and priced to sensitivity to such movements.
segmentation and focus on expanding in target achieve target returns.
Emerging trends in large trades and segments where our technical losses, frequency and severity are flagged The investment portfolio is routinely monitored expertise gives us competitive advantage.
to ensure compliance with counterparty concentration and credit limits and that all 2. insurance risks are accepted outside the The Group maintains a conservative exposures are within the Groups risk appetite.
groups risk appetite or below technical price reinsurance programme, which limits net losses The Group has strict underwriting limits in to a specified amount each year.
The prudent nature of the Groups investment place to ensure that risk selection is within strategy has been evidenced by the resilience the Groups risk appetite.
The Groups In addition, the Group maintains a conservative of the portfolio during 2007.
In spite of market underwriters are licensed to only write risks reserving policy and claims reserves are set with turbulence, the portfolio performed strongly and within specified limits, based on the experience the aim that, over the longer term, they will be did not experience any material impairments.
more likely than not to result in positive prior year development.
30 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 COrPOrate resPOnsiBiLity Climate change continued to be a Product innovation is key to our success During 2007, we have been active in working major focus in 2007, generating both and across the business we adopt clear towards a common approach for responsible risks and opportunities for insurers.
segmentation methods to create tailored and procurement in the financial services sector.
RSA has been at the forefront of relevant products for specific customer groups.
This approach will help drive environmental the debate, helping customers and Social and environmental changes are always and social improvements throughout the supply preparing our business.
generating new insurance demands, and chain without jeopardising cost or quality.
we have continued to develop insurance Our approach to corporate responsibility is solutions that provide additional social responsible investment based on our Business Principles, which or environmental benefits: Our UK assets continue to be managed by F&C underpin everything we do and outline how we Asset Management who apply their responsible interact with stakeholders, both as a company In the UK, we launched the pilot of Green engagement overlay across our equity portfolios and as individuals.
These principles link to our Telematics using satellite technology, aimed at to encourage companies to manage social, ethical Group policies and form part of our broader reducing the environmental impact of driving, and environmental risks.
We receive regular risk and governance framework which, together through advising on driving behaviour feedback on the companies in which F&C Asset with our latest Corporate Responsibility Report Were expanding our global commercial Management have invested in on our behalf.
renewable energy insurance propositions and continue to be a leading provider of both employees Customers off-shore and on-shore wind cover A sustainable business needs to attract, develop As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping In Italy and Canada, based on our successful and reward talented people, as well as giving people recover and getting their lives back on 50 plus products in Scandinavia, we have people responsibility and making them track.
This was demonstrated by our response launched similar propositions targeting the accountable for their actions.
At RSA we are to weather related events during 2007, including over 50s, tailoring our insurance to the needs continuing to build and enhance our high Cyclone Gonu in Oman and the summer of this important and growing demographic.
This year we have flooding in the UK.
In response to the UK continued to focus on the ongoing development floods, we were one of the first insurers on the Business partners of our employees throughout our businesses ground, providing emergency payments and We work closely with our business partners and and at all levels.
Some of the major initiatives alternative accommodation, proactively intermediaries to grow a successful business at we focused on in 2007 were: contacting our customers within 48 hours.
the same time as reducing our social and environmental impact.
We demand high The launch of our Technical Academy global We remain committed to clear and open standards from them.
graduate programme in our core disciplines communication with customers, and resolving of claims, actuarial and underwriting their complaints promptly.
This was reflected group impacts by our upper quartile position in all categories 285,009 2,155 124,976 52,226 5,080 119,324 49,889 in the UK in the 2007 benchmark by the ABI.
253,160 1,827 Throughout our businesses we continue to 3,501 64% improve our customer service.
This year we offset rolled out our Personal Customer Manager programme, which was pioneered in our 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 Canadian business, to over 170,000 customers in the UK, assigning people with their own 3 1 2, 3 Water m Waste tonnes Paper tonnes Energy MWh CO tonnes 2 dedicated customer services manager.
1 This demonstrates our focus on improving Inclusion of marketing materials in 50% of operations 2 Revised in CR report 2006 the customer experience.
3 Includes expansion of Canadian reporting, inclusion of Italy and Colombia for first year Note: Data covers 85% of RSA 24,954 litres per fte 159 kg per fte 156 kg per fte 2,934 kWh per fte 2,292 kg per fte Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 31 Our Executive Development Programme as an insurer: is a major issue and alongside our provision is now in its fourth year, focusing on key We are committed to engaging in the climate of social housing insurance, Bridget McIntyre strategic projects change debate and work closely with forums is a member of the UK Governments Financial The FastTrack programme is a two year such as the United Nations, FORGE group Inclusion Taskforce and chairs the Insurance development programme for high potential and Were in this Together initiative Working Group.
We plan to continue We remain vocal in the UK on key the programme in 2008 with another environmental issues and continue to lobby Our overall charitable donation rose by 13% 45 participants.
on increased funding for flood defences and to 2.3 million in 2007, with 8,850 volunteer action on climate change hours donated.
In 2008, we look forward Scores recorded in our annual global employee Our technology to assess risk for customers to our first ever Groupwide volunteer event survey continued to improve, with overall is constantly improving and evolving through helping local great causes identified by our satisfaction improving by 2%.
A key part of this applications such as Eurotempest and our employees, and building on the success of the survey is using the feedback we get from Flood Risk Assessment tool RSA UK National Volunteer Week.
employees as a means of generating ideas and We aim to make it more affordable for actions to make operational improvements in customers to make environmental choices targets for 2008 all our businesses.
We turn the results into clear though products and services such as our We met 79% of our 2007 environmental targets.
Last year we also started to run commercial energy surveys, discounted For full details of the progress please see the full World Caf engagement events across the insurance for hybrid cars and fuel Corporate Responsibility Report.
These events have played a key part in efficient vehicles.
developing the new RSA brand and beliefs and The following targets are for completion by the empowering regional businesses to play their role Community end of 2008, set against a 2006 baseline.
in making major improvements to the business.
Over the last few years we have been developing a more targeted and proactive environmental targets 2008 % reduction environment community engagement programme.
As a energy During 2007 we have been focusing on integrating Group, we are focusing on three main areas UK electricity 10 environmental management and our climate that are relevant to our business and our Ireland 10 change strategy throughout our business.
These are Canada 5 safety, social inclusion and the environment.
Waste as a group: UK 10 We have stretching environmental targets Road accidents are a major cause of death and Denmark paper 5 in place.
This year we have made excellent injury, which as a leading motor insurer, we are CO impact 2 Ireland paper 10 progress and achieved over 79% of the committed to reducing.
Our programmes Rail CO original targets.
We have set new challenging on road safety education continue: in Chile 2 1.4% Group 2.5 targets for 2008 teaching 27,000 children, while in Sweden we Air UK 5 We continue to be Carbon Neutral in the donated 180,000 reflective safety vests.
In 13.4% Ireland travel 5 UK, and only use offsetting, in renewable Dubai, in association with the Government, Electricity travel air energy projects of the highest quality, as a we have started a road safety training and 51.4% UK 5 last resort stress reduction campaign for drivers.
Road Sweden 1 We have integrated best practice 19.8% Denmark 1 environmental design into the new Irish HQ Addressing social inclusion continues to be an Gas Ireland 10 and two major site refurbishments in the UK, issue across all our regions and we tackle this 14.0% 1 Canada 10 all due for occupation in 2008. in different ways.
In the UK, financial inclusion travel Car Sweden 5 CO impact CO emissions by region 2 2 Denmark 2 Rail Paper 1.4% Sweden 5 Air Emerging Markets Denmark 5 13.4% 6.6% note Electricity International All Canadian targets refer to RSA Canada only 1 51.4% 29.1% Canadian air target for international air travel with 5% domestic air travel reduction set Road UK including 19.8% Corporate Gas Centre 14.0% 64.3% CO emissions by region 2 Emerging Markets 6.6% International 29.1% UK including Corporate Centre 64.3% 32 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 exeCUtive team andy haste neil macmillan group Chief executive group Director, audit, risk and Compliance Andy was appointed Group Chief Executive in April 2003, following Neil joined the Group as UK Director for Internal Audit in June 2003 and previous roles as Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and Director of was appointed Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance in July 2006.
AXA UK plc life and pensions.
He is the former President and Chief Before joining RSA, Neil was Head of Internal Audit for the Royal Bank Executive Officer of Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, of Scotland Groups Wealth Management and Retail Direct Divisions.
Western Europe and Eastern Europe financial services, and is the former President of National Westminster Banks US Consumer Credit Business.
Bridget mcintyre Uk Chief executive mark Chambers Bridget joined as UK CEO at RSA in November 2005.
Previously, Bridget general Counsel and group Company secretary worked for Norwich Union for 13 years in roles including Finance Director Mark was appointed General Counsel and Group Company Secretary of the general insurance business, Managing Director of London & in October 2004.
He was previously head of the legal team at American Edinburgh, Finance Director of UK Long Term Savings and, most recently, Express for EMEA.
Before that he worked for GE, holding a number of Sales, Marketing & Underwriting Director of Norwich Unions general senior positions with the consumer finance and insurance businesses.
As a qualified Chartered Management Accountant, in Earlier in his career, Mark worked for the international law firm Slaughter her earlier career Bridget worked at Volvo UK, HarperCollins, Marconi and May in London and New York.
Mark is a non-executive director of Radar Systems and Willis Faber.
timothy mitchell george Culmer group Underwriting and Claims Director Chief Financial Officer Tim was appointed Group Underwriting and Claims Director in George was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Group Director in November 2007 when he joined the Group.
He was previously Head of Capital Management at Zurich experience in the insurance industry.
He joined RSA from Zurich Financial Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer of its UK operation.
Before Services where he held senior underwriting roles including three years as that George spent ten years with Prudential.
Global Chief Underwriting Officer for General Insurance.
Tim has also held senior management roles at AIG and Continental Insurance.
Orlagh hunt group human resources Director Clare salmon Orlagh joined the Group as HR Director for International in September group strategy, marketing and Customer Director 2003 and was appointed Group Human Resources Director in October Clare joined as Group Strategy, Marketing and Customer Director in June 2006.
She was previously Head of Human Resources for AXA Sun Life plc 2007.
Previously she was Director of Marketing & Commercial Strategy at and has previously worked at Walkers and Tesco in a variety of HR ITV plc and a member of the Executive Management Board.
Clare is also management roles.
the former Managing Director of AA Financial Services and has held senior commercial roles at Prudential and British Gas.
She is also a nonsimon Lee executive director of Alliance Trust plc.
Chief executive, international Businesses Simon has been Chief Executive of RSAs International business since April 2003.
Previously he spent 17 years with the National Westminster Bank Group, in the UK and US including time as Chief Executive, NatWest Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 33 Left to right: standing: Bridget McIntyre, David Weymouth, Timothy Mitchell, Simon Lee, Paul Whittaker.
seated: George Culmer, Mark Chambers, Andy Haste, Neil Macmillan, Clare Salmon, Orlagh Hunt.
David Weymouth Paul Whittaker group Operations and it Director CeO of emerging markets David joined as Group Operations and IT Director in June 2007.
He spent Paul was appointed CEO of Emerging Markets in 2006, having been 27 years with the Barclays Group, where senior positions included Chief RSAs Group HR Director since April 2003.
He has over 15 years senior Operating Officer for Corporate Banking and Group Chief Information management experience in the financial services sector including three Officer and was part of the Group Executive Committee.
He most years at AXA and 10 years at GE Capital, including work in Asia and recently spent two years consulting to a portfolio of blue chip and Eastern Europe on acquisition integration and business development.
government organisations and acting as an independent board member at the DTI and for Chordiant Inc, the US Nasdaq quoted software business.
34 | rsa | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 BOarD OF DireCtOrs John napier simon Lee Age 65.
Director of the Group from January 2003 and Chairman of the Age 47.
Director of the Group from January 2007 having been Chief Group from March 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee from Executive of the International business since April 2003.
Non-executive Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility.
Executive, Natwest Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking at National Former Executive Chairman and Chief Executive of Kelda Group plc.
Former Chairman of Booker plc cash and carry.
Former Managing Director of Hays plc business services from 1991 to 1998.
Former malcolm Le may Managing Director of AGB plc international market research and Age 50.
Director of the Group from March 2004 and Chairman of the information services.
President Europe JER Partners Limited Europe property investment.
Non-Executive Director of Pendragon plc.
andy haste Former Deputy Chief Executive Morley Fund Management Investment Age 46.
Director and Group Chief Executive from April 2003.
Former Deputy CEO of ING-Barings finance.
Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and Director of AXA UK plc life and pensions.
Former President and Chief Executive Officer of John maxwell Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, Western Europe Age 63.
Director of the Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the and Eastern Europe financial services.
Former President of National Remuneration Committee from October 2003.
Director of Provident Westminster Banks US Consumer Credit Business retail banking.
Director of Homeserve plc support services.
Director of the Royal Automobile Club Limited.
Director of george Culmer London Finance and Investment Group plc.
Chief Financial Officer and Director of the Group from May 2004. director of Prudential Group plc.
Former Chairman of DX Services plc Previously Head of Capital Management Zurich Financial Services mail.
Previously Director General Chief Executive Officer of The insurance and Chief Financial Officer of its UK operation.
noel harwerth Bridget mcintyre Age 60.
Director of the Group from March 2004.
UK Chief Executive and Director of the Group from November CMG, Corporate Services Group plc, Anglo Irish Bank and Partnership 2005.
Former Executive Director of Norwich Union insurance.
Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited finance.
Former Chief Operating Member of the Group Audit Committee Officer of Citibank International plc finance.
Executive director Member of the Investment Committee edward Lea Member of the Nomination Committee Age 66.
Chairman of the Group Member of the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee from October 2003.
Director Redbourn Group plc property management and investment.
Director of IDC Plugs Limited electrical services.
Director of MacIntyre Care charity.
Previously a director of The British United Provident Association BUPA.
Business review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | rsa | 35 Left to right: top row: John Napier, Andy Haste, George Culmer middle row: Noel Harwerth, Edward Lea, Malcolm Le May Bottom row: John Maxwell, Simon Lee, Bridget McIntyre 36 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Governance 37 Directors report 40 Corporate governance 45 Remuneration report 52 Directors emoluments and interests Financial statements 57 Independent auditors statement to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 58 Summary consolidated income statement 59 Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 59 Summary consolidated balance sheet 60 Summary consolidated cashflow statement 61 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Other information 64 Shareholder information ibc Financial calendar Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 37 Directors report The directors of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc RSA present of preference shares on the register at the close of business their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the on 7 March 2008. year ended 31 December 2007.
Employment policy Principal activity The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and The Company is the holding company of the RSA group of companies skilled employees are critical to our success.
the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group writes business in We encourage equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing people solely on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing and Business review promoting a working environment which is free from discrimination.
The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all business review can be found within the Group CEOs review on pages employees including those with a disability.
In order to do this, we will 6 to 10, the Group strategy on pages 11 to 13 and the regional business ensure that any reasonable adjustment is made, where it is appropriate reviews on pages 14 to 22 which are incorporated in this report by to do so, to provide equal opportunities to all in respect of recruitment, reference.
An overview of the Groups business performance during the terms and conditions of employment, promotions, transfers, grievances, year along with an analysis of its financial position is set out in the financial redundancies and vocational training.
The Group is committed wherever review on pages 23 to 26.
The future developments of the business can possible, to supporting the rehabilitation and return to work of employees be found in the Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10 and in the regional who become disabled during their career with us.
business reviews on pages 14 to 22.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the estimation techniques, uncertainties In 2007 the Group entered the Where Women Want To Work Top 50 and contingencies on pages 61 to 63 and in the risk framework on pages produced by The Times for the first time.
We were one of only three 27 to 29. insurers who made it on to the list.
The Group uses Key Performance Indicators KPIs to provide a well The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with balanced and comprehensive review of the Groups overall performance.
recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and constructive KPIs are monitored in a number of areas including financial, employee, dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting the customer and the environment and community.
Financial KPIs include the workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a partnership Groups combined operating ratio, expense ratio, operating result and net agreement which covers collective consultation and bargaining on behalf written premium growth.
Employee KPIs include the percentage of staff of non management employees.
The Management Association TMA that have performance related pay, the percentage of staff taking part in represents managerial employees under a separate consultative the employee survey and the increase in overall employee satisfaction as agreement.
The European Consultative Forum ECF is a cross European measured by the survey.
Customer KPIs include the levels of customer body created to enable information sharing and consultation on retention and the Groups position in the annual benchmarking survey on transnational issues with the European workforce.
Since 2005, an complaints handling by the Association of British Insurers.
Environment amended constitution has been in place for the European workforce and community KPIs include the levels of CO emissions and the amount which enables streamlined consultation arrangements.
2 of the Groups charitable donations.
Financial KPIs are detailed in the Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10, the Group strategy on pages 11 to 13 and The Group continues to focus on the development of employees in order the regional business reviews on pages 14 to 22.
The employee, customer to ensure they can deliver high levels of performance.
We believe we can and the environment and community KPIs are detailed in the regional create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining a high business reviews on pages 14 to 22, the corporate responsibility report performance culture across the Group.
In 2007, the focus has been on on pages 30 to 31 and in this report.
developing leadership talent and capability for todays business needs and those of the future.
We have continued to accelerate the development of Dividends our in house executive talent, through the Executive Development The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.53p per ordinary share in Programme which enters its fourth year in 2008.
We have also respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 to be paid on 6 June 2008 introduced robust strategies to build capability and performance in the to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of business on areas of sales, underwriting, claims and actuarial.
7 March 2008, subject to shareholder approval.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.48p per ordinary share, will make a total dividend A Groupwide programme was introduced during 2006 looking at sales for the year of 7.01p per ordinary share.
effectiveness, with the aim of equipping our salesforce with the tools, skills, career pathways, training, reward and recognition that an effective The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from salesforce would expect.
This programme has now been rolled out in the 1 October 2007 to 31 March 2008 will be paid on 1 April 2008 to holders UK, Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland, Italy and a number of countries in the 38 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Directors report continued Emerging Markets region.
The programme will be rolled out in the terms.
In the UK these are available on request from UK Procurement, remaining countries during 2008.
Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
During 2007 a new Graduate Programme was launched.
In this first year The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on it focused on technical roles within claims, underwriting and actuarial.
31 December 2007 amounted to 5.6m corresponding to 20 days The Graduate Programme is aimed at filling the talent pipeline within payment when averaged over the year.
our technical roles to support the Groups growth objectives.
The programme is run as part of the Technical Academy.
Share capital During the year, 12,448,823 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued in A second year of our accelerated career programme, FastTrack, resulted satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total in us hiring 45 individuals who show potential to swiftly build capability to consideration of 9m, and 66,632,200 ordinary shares of 27.5p each fulfil leadership positions in the Group.
Typically three or four years post were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for a total graduate, these individuals follow a structured career acceleration consideration of 100m.
On 24 May 2007 the Company placed programme involving a six month overseas assignment to help bring 186,350,000 ordinary shares of 27.5p each, raising gross proceeds of increased exposure to cultural and organisational differences.
The placing was part of the financing in respect of the recommended offer to purchase the shares in Codan A S not already Our fourth annual web based Global Employee Survey was run in 2007. held by the Group.
91% of eligible employees took the opportunity to contribute.
Our aim is to consistently seek feedback on the environment we are creating as an The Company can increase its share capital and authorise the directors to employer and to work constructively towards our objective of becoming allot further securities by ordinary resolution.
As at 31 December 2007, an employer of choice.
Our intention is to continue to conduct an annual the directors had authority to allot securities up to a nominal amount of survey to ensure we have a current picture of employees views and to 432,165,676. track year on year movement in particular areas of priority.
In this way we measure how the culture of our business is changing.
For example, in 2007 The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any 72% of staff felt that My job provides the opportunity to learn new skills redeemable shares.
An authority from shareholders for the Company and develop new talents, an increase of 2% on 2006.
As in previous years, to purchase up to 298,848,845 of its own ordinary shares representing we have used the 2007 results to build a Groupwide action plan which 10% of its issued share capital as at 22 March 2007 remained in force at requires every manager to identify and work on areas of particular 31 December 2007. importance to his or her team.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees from a The rights attaching to the ordinary shares and preference shares are set number of our global businesses are encouraged to participate in out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
Details of the Sharesave which is an Employee Sharesave Scheme HM Revenue and rights and obligations attaching to shares as at 31 December 2007 are set Customs approved.
This year 44% of UK based eligible employees out in note 18 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
participated while overseas the average take up rate was 28%, which was a significant increase on previous years.
The Articles may be amended subject to shareholder approval by special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
We are proposing to Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and amend the Articles at the 2008 AGM, further details of which are set out objectives of the Group.
The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in Employee Benefit Trusts supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in the The Company operates the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust, the Royal & corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 31.
2 and the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
In each case, the trustee is Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Environmental programme Company Limited.
In respect of any shares held in the Trusts, the trustee Details of our environmental programme can be found on our website at may vote in respect of those shares, but is not obliged to.
Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the trustee may have regard to the financial interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the Supplier payment policy Companys shares.
It is the Companys policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services are made under the Groups standard terms of contract that lay down payment Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 39 Substantial share interests The Group did not make any donations to European Union EU political At the date of this report we have been notified, in accordance with the parties nor to political parties outside the EU during 2007, and it is not the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the Groups policy to do so.
ordinary share capital of the Company: Annual General Meeting Number of shares Number of shares Interest The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, in which there is in which there is in issued a direct interest an indirect interest share capital Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, 19 May AXA S. A.
Goldman Sachs Asset Management 192,491,038 5.92% Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to shareholders.
Legal & General Group plc 159,445,835 4.90% Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the AGM which will include Schroders plc 147,476,133 4.53% items of ordinary and special business as detailed in the Notice.
Standard Life Investments 108,621,140 17,201,130 3.87% Change of name Directors It is proposed that a resolution be put to the shareholders of the The names of the directors, together with biographical details are set out Company at the 2008 AGM that the name of the Company be changed on page 34. to RSA Insurance Group plc.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of appointment Auditors are shown in the remuneration report on pages 45 to 56.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 234ZA 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Details of directors powers are set out in the corporate governance Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all steps report on page 40 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of, and to establish that the auditors are aware of, any Directors indemnity relevant audit information.
Article 154 of the Companys Articles provides that, among other things and insofar as permitted by law, every director shall be indemnified by the Deloitte & Touche LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities incurred office as auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2008. in the execution and discharge of the directors duties, power or office.
A resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
Since 12 July 2006, the Company has granted an indemnity to each of Going concern the directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 154.
The The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future having given as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board of consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed in the Directors the Board believes that it promotes the success of the financial statements and have therefore prepared the financial statements Company to provide this indemnity to its directors in order to ensure that on a going concern basis.
the Group attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
By order of the Board Mark R Chambers Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary benefit of an insurance policy which provides suitable cover in respect of 26 February 2008 legal actions brought against the directors.
None of the directors had any interest in any other contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2007.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are set out in the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Charitable and political contributions The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations of 2,370,003 during the year.
The largest contribution of 251,935 was made for the Danish life buoy programme promoting safety around water.
40 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Corporate governance This report sets out the Companys approach to corporate governance in The directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the 2007.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of Best aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group Practice set out in section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Corporate Governance the Combined Code and sets out the extent Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: of our compliance with the Code.
The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company Compliance with the Combined Code The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to Throughout 2007 the Group has complied with the Principles and certain adjustments.
Provisions of the Combined Code except that the Group has not appointed a senior independent director.
The non-executive directors The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out as a formal schedule have a unanimous view that the appointment of a senior independent of matters specifically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the director is not appropriate at this time.
All non-executive directors are Board itself and which is reviewed annually.
Matters reserved to the encouraged to communicate directly with executive directors and senior Board include: management outside of formal meetings and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board.
Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure The Board Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable performance and the creation of long term shareholder Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements value.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for organising and Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets directing the affairs of the Company and the Group in a manner that Changes to the Groups capital structure will promote the success of the Company and is consistent with good Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant changes to corporate governance practice, and for ensuring that in carrying out accounting practices or policies.
its duties the Company and the Group meet legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors, who may exercise all the power of the Company subject to the Articles of Association the Articles, relevant law and any directions as may be given by the Company in general meeting by shareholder resolution.
The directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions to committees.
A director must not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal in which he or any person connected with him has a material interest otherwise than by virtue of his interests in securities of the Company.
However, a director shall be entitled to vote in certain limited circumstances which are set out in full in the Articles.
Amendments are being proposed to the Articles at the 2008 AGM regarding directors conflicts of interest in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Further details are set out in the notice of AGM.
Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 41 The Board met 13 times during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Board Board Group Audit Nomination Remuneration Investment Board Risk Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 1 13 6 7 4 5 2 5 George Culmer 13 6 2 5 Noel Harwerth 12 6 2 Andy Haste 13 6 2 5 Edward Lea 11 7 5 2 Simon Lee 2 12 Malcolm Le May 11 4 2 John Maxwell 13 6 4 5 2 Bridget McIntyre 13 John Napier 13 4 2 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes 1.
In addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and George Culmer regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee GAC and Andy Haste regularly attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Simon Lee agreed not to attend the Board meeting on 21 May 2007 due to the business of the meeting creating a potential conflict with his interests as a director of Codan A S. Board balance and independence Nomination Committee Details of the directors who served during the year can be found on During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by John page 34.
The other member of the Committee was John Maxwell.
Malcolm Le May was appointed to the Committee on 19 December At all times during the year, at least half of the Board, excluding the 2007.
The attendance record of directors during 2007 is shown in the Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.
The Committee met four times during 2007. directors have been determined by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors both The Nomination Committees principal duties are to review the individually and collectively without the executive directors being structure, size and composition of the Board and to evaluate the present.
The Chairman met the independence criteria of the directors skills, knowledge and experience.
When appointing new Combined Code on his appointment in 2003 and continues to meet directors, regard is given to the size of the Board and the balance of the criteria set out in the Code.
There have been no changes to his executive and non-executive directors as well as the skills and external commitments since then which might affect his responsibilities experience already represented by the existing Board members, to the Group.
None of the executive directors serve on the board of and those which would be desirable on the Board going forward.
The Committee has access to external recruitment consultants in order to help fill any vacancies.
The Committee considers the Directors have access to the services and advice of the General leadership needs and succession planning of the Board when making Counsel and Group Company Secretary and in addition may take decisions on new appointments.
Resolutions to re-appoint directors at independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the AGM are subject to the approval of the Board, taking into account furtherance of their duties.
the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Appointments to the Board The directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to be a director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director.
A director who is appointed by the directors shall retire at the following AGM and will put himself forward to be elected by the shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles and the Combined Code, the directors submit themselves for reappointment at the first AGM after their appointment and for re-election every three years thereafter.
There are no directors retiring by rotation at the 2008 AGM.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove any director before the expiration of his period of office.
42 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Corporate governance continued Induction and professional development reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and Directors undertake an induction programme and will receive a range of detect fraud and other irregularities.
information about the Company when they join the Board.
This includes background information on the Group and details of board procedures, The directors must present financial statements for each financial year, governance issues and directors responsibilities.
The induction in accordance with applicable law, accounting standards and regulations, programme also includes a series of meetings with members of the which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of Board and various briefings and presentations regarding the business the profit or loss and cashflows for that period.
Financial statements for from executives.
the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Development and training for the directors is an ongoing process which Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
includes briefings on legislative changes and on corporate governance issues.
Directors also receive regular presentations about the Companys In preparing such financial statements the directors are required to: operations and there are regular discussions on strategy, customer marketing and employee satisfaction.
Opportunity is also created for Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent basis non-executive directors to make informal visits to different parts of the using reasonable and prudent judgement Group and to meet with local management.
State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been followed and explain any material departures Performance evaluation State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in In 2007 the Board undertook an annual evaluation of its performance accordance with IFRS to assess how well the Board, its committees and the directors were Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The review included the use of a comprehensive questionnaire.
Responses from the questionnaire were collated and The directors confirm that they have complied with the above subsequently discussed by the Board.
Strong positive feedback on requirements in preparing the financial statements.
the workings of the Board was received and potential improvements identified through the evaluation process will be implemented.
Internal control The non-executive directors are responsible for the evaluation of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control Chairmans performance and take into account the views of the executive systems and for monitoring effectiveness.
Implementation and directors in their evaluation.
As part of the ongoing performance maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the evaluation process the Chairman has regular one to one meetings executive directors and senior management.
The performance of with all the non-executive directors.
internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Group Audit Committee GAC.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO The roles of the Chairman and the Group CEO are separate, with The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups systems of responsibilities clearly divided between them.
This separation of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups assets and shareholders responsibilities is formalised in role statements which have been approved investment.
This system includes governance, financial controls, the risk by the Board.
management framework and operational, regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, liaising as necessary the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide with the Group CEO on developments between Board meetings and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial ensuring that both the Group CEO and his executive management team misstatement or loss.
Following the review of the internal control systems, have appropriate objectives and that their performance against those the Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary to rectify any objectives is reviewed.
The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for significant failings or weaknesses identified as a result of the review have the executive management of the Group and for liaising with the been, or are being, taken.
Chairman and keeping him informed on all material matters.
The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group Director, Remuneration Audit, Risk and Compliance and his team on the integrity of the control Details of the directors remuneration and the Groups policies on environment and also receives reports from the external auditors based remuneration are set out in the remuneration report on pages 45 to 56. upon their audit work.
The GAC also receives reports on the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance.
The Board, through the Financial reporting Board Risk Committee BRC, considers reports from risk specialists The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records both internal and external to the Group, and reviews Group level risk are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable accuracy, management information.
the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for taking Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 43 Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business External auditors managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and their During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP were, on a number of occasions, compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed by The Board considers that the current reporting framework delivers the GAC.
This gives guidance to businesses within the Group on the sufficient information to monitor the systems of internal control and to appropriateness of engaging the Groups external auditors as advisors and review their effectiveness as required by the Combined Code.
The Board sets down the procedures to be followed to authorise such an therefore considers that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and engagement.
The GAC is satisfied that this protocol has been followed managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place during and there are no matters that would compromise the independence of 2007 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory duties.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
The Board has accepted the GACs recommendation that a resolution be put to the 2008 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Further detail on the overall risk framework is set out on pages 27 to 29. external auditors.
Group Audit Committee It is the GACs responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in the Group The GAC is chaired by Edward Lea who has been Chairman of the whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy deals with employees who Committee since October 2003.
The other members of the Committee wish to raise serious concerns in good faith, and either do not feel are Noel Harwerth and John Maxwell.
In 2007, the Committee met seven comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not satisfied times.
The attendance record of directors in 2007 is shown in the table on with the local management response.
They can raise their concerns with page 41.
The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance, who will either directors who have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Group investigate or arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Group Director, Enterprise Risk offered such safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their Management and the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance are personal integrity and, where possible, identity.
The Chairman and other members of executive management are also invited to attend from time to time.
The outcomes Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group include: of meetings are reported to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all GAC meetings.
Internal audit The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and The GACs principal duties are as follows: effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information and To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial resource is given to the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance reporting process and for approving the appointment to, and removal of the holder from, that position.
To monitor compliance To have oversight of internal and external audit functions The Board Risk Committee To manage the systems of internal controls The BRC, which meets at least quarterly, is chaired by George Culmer, To review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The BRC also comprises the Group CEO and other members of executive management.
The Committee is authorised To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups by the Board under its terms of reference to manage all risks faced by the risk management.
The Board approved Group risk appetite is set by reference to policies, control limits and other mechanisms.
The Committees principal The GAC has unrestricted access to Company documents and duties include: information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external auditors.
Defining the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board The GAC meets regularly with internal and external auditors without Approval of policy and minimum standards that are consistent with the management present.
The partner of the Groups external auditors, who risk appetite is responsible for the external audit, attends meetings regularly.
Each year, Ensuring that risks that are outside the appetite are mitigated in an the GAC considers the performance of the external auditors prior to a appropriate manner resolution on their reappointment and remuneration at the AGM.
Overseeing and challenging the Groups risk management processes.
44 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Corporate governance continued Investment Committee chairmen of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May, meets twice a Committees make themselves available to take questions from year and comprises all of the non-executive directors, the Group CEO shareholders at and after the AGM.
and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee assists the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy and monitors the execution of Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any that strategy and the Groups investment performance.
general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for Financial control framework holding the meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on In 2006 the Company voluntarily delisted from the New York Stock the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time Exchange and terminated its American Depository Receipt ADR appointed for the taking of the poll.
In January 2007 the Company suspended its US SEC registration and its reporting obligations to the SEC also ceased at that At any general meeting every shareholder present shall have one vote on time.
The registration was permanently terminated on 31 December a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by 2007.
As a result of the SEC deregistration, the Company is no longer proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
In the required to be compliant with the US Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002. case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the However, the elements of Sarbanes Oxley compliance which have chairman of the meeting shall be entitled to a casting vote.
All resolutions added value have been carried forward in the Groups financial were put to a poll at the AGM in 2007.
Voting at the AGM is conducted control framework.
electronically, with the results being announced to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Corporate governance framework The Groups corporate governance framework describes and prescribes By order of the Board how the Group is directed and managed by setting out the matters Mark R Chambers reserved for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board and General Counsel and Group Company Secretary management committees, role statements, policies, systems, procedures 26 February 2008 and controls.
The terms of reference for key committees of the Board explaining their role and the authority delegated to them are available on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Delegated authorities The Group operates a Delegated Authority Policy which specifies how executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and on to other executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences set out specific limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting and other business commitments.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within their area of responsibility.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal institutional shareholders on a regular basis and small shareholder groups on request and non-executive directors are available to meet with institutional shareholders as required.
In addition, investor relations events are held during the year to increase shareholders understanding of the business.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM.
The AGM Notice is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and contains separate resolutions on each substantive issue including a resolution to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts.
All directors are requested to attend each AGM.
The Chairman and the Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 45 Remuneration report The following report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
Fees for serving as a by the Board for submission to the shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
committee member and chairing committees of the Board are described in the non-executive directors section of this report on page 52.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have audited the following items stipulated in law for their review: Advisors to the Remuneration Committee In developing remuneration strategy during the year, the Committee The table of directors remuneration and associated footnotes on page obtained its principal advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, 52 and the disclosure of the items comprising benefits in kind who were appointed by the Committee and provided no other services to the Company during 2007.
The tables of defined benefit and defined contribution pensions on pages 52 to 53 and associated footnotes The terms of engagement for the remuneration consultants are available The table of disclosure of directors share options and share awards to shareholders on request and on our website at www.
on pages 53 to 56 and associated footnotes.
The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee to In constitution and operation the Committee complies fully with the provide context and advice to the Committee on Group strategy and Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing performance and senior executive pay strategy.
The Group Human Authority and as described in the corporate governance section of this Resources Director normally attends meetings to provide information report, on page 40. on wider remuneration strategy and practice within the Group.
The Chairman is invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The General Principal duties of the Remuneration Committee Counsel and Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the The Committee is a formal committee of the Board and is accountable to Committee.
None of the non Committee attendees are present as of shareholders through its annual remuneration report, which is voted on right, and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
at the AGM, and remains committed to reflecting the best interests of shareholders and to the pursuit of best practice in remuneration policy.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The continuing focus of the Committee is the maintenance of a strong link The Committees principal duties are as follows: between performance and reward.
It is the Committees view that the interests of shareholders are best served by ensuring a remuneration The determination of the terms and conditions and remuneration of structure which has a significant element of performance related pay, and the Chairman of the Board and the executive directors reinforces the culture of high performance and accountability that applies Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term at all levels throughout the Group.
incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of awards and overseeing the operation of performance conditions The Committee meets as often as necessary throughout the year to Consideration of, and advice to the Board on, the Groups broader ensure that it is able to fully report to the Board and shareholders on all remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting to the relevant matters.
In 2007, the Committee met five times and the principal Group CEO the Executive Team.
business of those meetings included the following activities: The Committee presents a summary of its principal activities to The determination of performance conditions, and approval of awards, shareholders through this report, and the Committee Chairman attends under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP the AGM to answer questions from shareholders on the activities of the Conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive directors Committee and its remuneration policies.
and the Group CEOs recommendations for his Executive Team, and making appropriate recommendations to the Board The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference The consideration and approval of annual bonus payments for 2006 which are available to shareholders on request and on our website at The review of actual performance of the executive directors in 2006 www.
The Committee welcomes ongoing dialogue with against agreed goals and objectives shareholders on remuneration policy.
The review of proposed annual objectives and performance goals of Membership of the Remuneration Committee executive directors for 2007 During the year the directors who served on the Committee were John The ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions and Maxwell Chairman, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May.
All of the nonreports on performance for awards under the Share Matching Plan and executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Board to various share option grants be independent.
The attendance of members in 2007 is shown in the The ongoing review of share incentives generally, including the approval table on page 41. of changes of an administrative or regulatory nature Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions and they have no 46 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Remuneration report continued The determination of initial remuneration arrangements for Executive The observation of existing share ownership guidelines to further Team members who joined the Group in 2007 enhance the alignment of shareholder interests with those of executive directors The determination of termination arrangements for those members of the global Top 100 the Top 100 who left the Group in 2007 Incentive arrangements are leveraged so that only exceptional performance attracts the highest levels of award A review of the Committees terms of reference A balance of short and long term performance is used, incorporating The drafting of the remuneration report for the Annual Report and measures of financial performance, delivery of shareholder value and a Accounts 2007. robust assessment of personal contribution Remuneration policy principles Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders The Committees remuneration policy is consistent with the high That, where relevant, there is consideration of environmental, social and performance culture across the Group.
The key principles which underpin governance risks when determining remuneration for executive the remuneration policy are: directors and senior managers to ensure that positive behaviours are reinforced.
Total remuneration is set at a level which enables the recruitment, retention and motivation of high quality executive talent Elements of remuneration There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and Remuneration for executive directors in 2008 will consist of the four performance principal elements described in the table below, of which only base salary is pensionable: Executive remuneration and shareholder interests are strongly aligned.
This is reflected in the design of the LTIP, which provides a coinvestment opportunity Remuneration Purpose Delivery Policy detail Base salary To reflect the market Cash Reviewed annually, changes effective from 1 April value of the role and the Monthly Benchmarked against a selected group of FTSE skills and experience of 100 financial services companies Pensionable the individual Positioned appropriately against similar roles, with reference to the median position of similar roles in the comparator companies Annual To incentivise the Maximum opportunity of 133% of base salary Financial targets are measured against combined performance delivery of annual goals operating ratio for Group and business areas Up to 100% of annual base salary is paid as cash bonus at Group, business area Individual targets are approved by the Up to 33% of base salary is awarded in the form and individual levels Remuneration Committee of compulsorily Deferred Shares under the LTIP Up to 33% of cash bonus paid may be reinvested Annual in voluntarily Deferred Shares under the LTIP Non pensionable LTIP To reward the creation Performance shares subject to stretching Discretionary awards of sustained growth in performance conditions Participation reviewed annually shareholder value Matching shares awarded linked to Deferred TSR performance measured against a peer group Shares, also subject to performance conditions of companies, together with an ROE measure Annual awards that may vest after three years Full details of performance measures and vesting Non pensionable described on page 56 Pension To provide appropriate Deferred income Defined benefit scheme or defined contribution and competitive post scheme, and or cash allowance in lieu of pension Paid monthly retirement benefits contributions This structure is replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 47 As an indication of the balance of remuneration, including long term For the purposes of the charts, the bonus value is based on the cash bonus incentives LTIs, the following charts illustrate the remuneration plus the fair value of the compulsory Deferred Shares.
The LTI value is attributable to the executive directors over the year excluding based on the fair value of awards of Performance Shares and half of the allowances and pension provision : maximum potential number of Matching Shares that may vest subject to performance relating to voluntary and compulsory Deferred Shares under the LTIP.
Details of how the fair values have been calculated are set Andy Haste out in note 27 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Base salary Salary Policy: Base salary is set with reference to the median level for 24% equivalent roles in similar companies.
Bonus 29% Base salaries for executive directors and members of the Executive Team LTIs are set on appointment with reference to market data.
To enable the 47% Group to compete for the most talented executives, the Committee relates base salary levels to the median level for equivalent roles in similar companies facing similar levels of complexity and challenge in the UK and internationally.
In the UK, the comparator group most frequently used is a George Culmer selected group of financial services companies within the FTSE 100.
Salary The Committee is alert to market concerns surrounding base pay 26% increases and closely monitors basic pay and total remuneration for Bonus executive directors in the light of both the market and individual and 30% corporate performance.
The Committee is confident that the structures LTIs and processes in place for reviewing annual salary increases are robust.
44% Base salaries are primarily reviewed on the basis of market movements.
The Committee analyses the remuneration details of a comparator group comprising 14 FTSE 100 financial services companies and awards salary increases with reference to the median position for equivalent roles in Simon Lee that group.
The 2007 salary review process resulted in the following increases, Salary effective from 1 April 2007, for the executive directors as at 31 23% December 2007 : Bonus 22% Position Increase Base salary LTIs Andy Haste Group CEO 6.2% 855,000 55% George Culmer Chief Financial Officer 8.6% 480,000 Simon Lee International CEO 6.0% 371,000 Bridget McIntyre UK CEO 6.1% 390,000 The following table sets out the base salaries of UK based executives Bridget McIntyre below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2007.
No such executive received a base salary in excess of 350,000.
Salary Base salary range Number of employees 25% Bonus 250,001 and over 8 26% 200,001 250,000 9 LTIs 150,001 200,000 34 49% 48 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Remuneration report continued Annual performance bonus Executives are also offered the opportunity to voluntarily invest up to Policy: Bonus payments are related to stretching performance targets 33% of the cash element of their bonus into Deferred Shares.
In 2007 and are capped at 133% of base salary.
For maximum bonuses to be under the LTIP, an award of Matching Shares was made on a pro rata achieved outstanding performance must be demonstrated.
basis to the Deferred Shares.
Matching Shares may vest subject to the performance conditions described on page 56 of this report.
The executive directors and the Executive Team participate in an annual bonus plan.
If stretching targets are achieved, participants receive a cash The Committee reserves the right to reduce the permissible investment bonus of up to 50% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 16.5% below this level.
However, the LTIP will continue to operate on the same of base salary.
For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of up to 100% terms in 2008. of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of base salary are achievable.
Deferred Shares are described in the section headed share Share based long term incentive awards based long term incentive awards below.
Policy: To provide annual share awards to executives to ensure alignment with shareholder interests solely through the LTIP.
Except in The targets used for determining the amount of bonus payable are a exceptional circumstances, no other discretionary share plan will be combination of stretching business performance targets and the results of used to make awards.
a structured assessment of each executives performance against detailed and specific personal objectives.
Prior to the approval of the LTIP, two share incentive plans were operated: Financial targets are measured against combined operating ratio COR The 2004 Share Matching Plan, which was designed to operate for two targets which are the preferred measures for the Group.
The final awards under this plan were made in 2005 single indicator which most fully captures the underlying strength and The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
Regular awards under the performance of an insurance business.
To achieve focused incentivisation, ESOS were discontinued from 2006, but the ESOS remains available for for each executive director financial targets are weighted towards the use in exceptional circumstances, such as executive recruitment.
area of the business for which they have primary responsibility.
The primary long term incentive is the LTIP, the key features of which The financial targets that apply to the annual performance bonus for Andy and associated policies are summarised in the sections below.
Haste and George Culmer are a combination of targets relating to the overall Group COR result and the COR results of the regional operating Awards under the LTIP will be funded through a combination of new businesses.
The financial targets for Bridget McIntyres and Simon Lees issues and shares purchased in the market.
annual performance bonus are weighted towards the UK and International businesses respectively while also retaining a target for the Conditional awards of Performance Shares Group COR result as a whole.
Participants may receive a conditional award of shares with the grant level and performance condition determined by the Committee prior to each Personal targets are reviewed and approved by the Committee early in grant.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top the financial year.
The Group CEOs performance is assessed annually by 100 will be eligible for awards of Performance Shares.
the Chairman of the Board and members of the Committee.
The Group CEO carries out a similar assessment for each of his direct reports, subject It is intended that, in 2008, awards of Performance Shares to executive to review and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive directors will be limited to a maximum face value of 100% of base salary, directors.
Assessments also take account of appropriate leadership style other than in exceptional circumstances.
Awards of Performance Shares and each executive receives a performance rating against the standard to members of the Executive Team in 2008 will be limited to a maximum scale used at all levels in the business.
face value of 80% of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Account will be taken of personal performance in determining the scale Bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of the performance year of the award to each executive.
For executives below this level, awards 2007 are included in the table of directors emoluments on page 52. are made based on a formula which relates the size of award to The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments performance and potential, as measured through the annual made in respect of 2007 reflect the consistently strong COR results performance appraisal process.
across the Group throughout 2007, and the contribution made by each executive director.
In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted to any individual will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances subject to UK based executives who are members of the Top 100 participate in a an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances such bonus plan which is structured in the same way and measured using the as an executive recruitment.
same metrics as the plan described above.
For outstanding performance a cash bonus of up to 65% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of the cash bonus are achievable.
Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 49 Performance Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment the underlying performance of the business with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to TSR retirement at normal retirement age.
performance against a comparator group of UK and International financial services companies.
Below median performance, no part of Deferred Shares the award subject to the TSR performance condition will vest.
At As described in the annual performance bonus section on page 48, median performance, 25% of the award will vest.
At upper quintile top executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 20%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis may be granted Deferred Shares as part of the annual bonus.
These in between Deferred Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest three years Additionally, before any shares subject to the TSR condition vests, the from the date of grant subject to continued employment with the Group.
Committee must be satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is reflective of underlying financial performance.
In addition executives may invest an additional portion of bonus in Deferred Shares on a voluntary basis.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are not The TSR comparator group will consist of the following companies: at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn at any time but the right to Matching Shares would lapse on those Deferred Shares withdrawn.
Comparator companies: Aegon AXA Conditional awards of Matching Shares Alleanza Allianz Executives may receive a conditional award of Matching Shares pro rata to AVIVA Baloise the number of Deferred Shares held.
At threshold performance the Fortis Generali matching ratio will be 0.625:1.
The maximum matching ratio for Matching Legal & General Munich Re Shares: Deferred Shares will be 2.5:1, calculated on the gross value of the QBE Swiss Re bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
Details of the performance condition Zurich Financial Services used are described below.
During 2007, AGF ceased to be listed and will be removed from the Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 will comparator group for the purpose of measuring TSR performance for be eligible for awards of Matching Shares.
The Committee reviews, on an ongoing basis, the composition of the comparator group and will consider adding Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance companies for future awards in the event that the number of constituent condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment companies drops below an acceptable level.
with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
The Groups TSR will be independently calculated and verified by the Committee for the purposes of awards made in 2008 under the LTIP.
Performance conditions The Committee will determine the performance condition for each grant The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntarily Deferred Shares will of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance measured be determined solely by the ROE performance condition.
over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
In 2008 grants of Performance Shares and Matching Shares related to non ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it is voluntarily Deferred Shares will be subject to a performance condition one of the key measures of overall business performance and is visible consisting of a combination of return on equity ROE and total externally to shareholders.
These are set out below: The TSR performance condition has been designed to provide 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to ROE alignment between executive remuneration and shareholder performance.
In line with the positive outlook on the future prospects interests and to ensure that an element of the package is linked of the Group, the Remuneration Committee has approved an increase directly to share price performance.
The comparator group has in the ROE performance targets for awards made in 2008.
If underlying been selected to ensure that performance is compared fairly against average annual ROE over three years commencing with the financial a group of similar companies operating in a similar competitive year of grant is below 12% 10% for awards made in 2006 and 2007, environment.
The use of ROE and TSR in combination provides a no part of the award subject to the ROE performance condition will balanced approach to the measurement of Company performance vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 12% 10% over the longer term.
for awards made in 2006 and 2007, 25% of the award will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 18% 16% for awards made in 2006 and 2007, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis in between.
Underlying ROE will exclude items of an 50 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Remuneration report continued Dilution Until 31 December 2005, George Culmer participated in a contributory Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within the Association of defined contribution occupational pension scheme the Royal & SunAlliance British Insurers ABI limits 10% over 10 years for all schemes and 5% for UK Pension Scheme 2002.
From 1 January 2006 this scheme was discretionary schemes.
The dilution levels compared to ABI limits as at replaced by the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension Plan the 31 December 2007 were: Stakeholder Plan, a contributory defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme.
George Culmer became a member of the Stakeholder ABI limit RSA dilution Plan from 1 January 2006.
In 2008, as in 2007, he will receive employer 10% over 10 years for all share schemes: 5.47% contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject to an employee 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes: 3.22% contribution of 5% of base salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
Additionally, George Culmer receives a Share ownership guidelines taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring his overall Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 for pension provision closer to the market median.
executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
Simon Lee elected not to join a Group pension plan on appointment, and The Group CEO is required to build and maintain a minimum receives a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of base salary instead.
shareholding in the Company equivalent to 150% of base salary.
The other executive directors have a target of 100% of base salary and other Bridget McIntyre was enrolled in the Stakeholder Plan as from 1 January members of the executive team have a target of 50% of base salary.
In 2008, as in 2007, she will receive employer contributions worth In order to ensure that progress is made towards this target, executives 15% of base salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base are required to retain shares to a value of 50% of the net of tax gain salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as under all executive schemes until the relevant guideline is attained.
Additionally, Bridget McIntyre receives a taxable cash This requirement will apply to awards under the LTIP, and will continue allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring her overall pension to apply to awards under all existing long term incentive plans.
provision closer to the market median.
The following table shows the number of shares including voluntary In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benefits Deferred Shares held under the LTIP held by each executive director at available to other senior managers including life assurance at the rate of 31 December 2007 and the increase in shareholding over the year.
four times base salary together with a spouse dependant annuity, sickness and ill health early retirement benefits and private medical insurance.
Shares held Increase % salary They also have a choice between a company car and a monthly cash car Andy Haste 1,070,829 33% 186% allowance.
In common with other employees, the executive directors are George Culmer 244,407 52% 75% eligible to participate in the Royal & SunAlliance Sharesave plan.
Simon Lee 177,136 609% 71% Bridget McIntyre 121,767 388% 46% Service contracts The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be Assuming share price of 148.2p the closing middle market price on the last dealing day of the year.
subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation.
None of the Pension provision and other benefits executive directors have current terms in their service contracts which Policy: Reasonable provision in line with arrangements made in similar allow them additional rights or payment in the event of a reconstruction companies will be made to allow executives to plan effectively for their or amalgamation of the Group.
retirement but the Committee will not compensate executives affected by the tax limits effective 6 April 2006.
Director Effective date of contract Notice period Andy Haste 2 April 2003 12 months Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, a contributory George Culmer 1 May 2004 12 months defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In common with all other Simon Lee 30 April 2003 12 months members of the Groups defined benefit occupational pension schemes, Bridget McIntyre 1 November 2005 12 months from 1 January 2006 Andy Hastes future benefits within SAL will accrue on a career average revalued earnings basis rather than on a final salary Simon Lee was appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2007.
His contractual notice period was extended to 12 months on that date, in line with other executive directors.
The Group has decided to retain a cap within its defined benefits after A Day and, accordingly, Andy Hastes benefit accrual will continue to be calculated by reference to a capped salary 112,800 for the tax year Andy Hastes service contract expires under normal circumstances in commencing 6 April 2007.
In addition to his benefits within SAL, Andy January 2024.
The service contracts for George Culmer, Bridget Haste receives an age related taxable cash allowance to enable him to McIntyre and Simon Lee terminate under normal circumstances in make his own provision for retirement above the cap.
In 2008 he will be October 2024, July 2023 and March 2023 respectively.
These service paid an allowance of 28% of base salary for this purpose.
Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 51 contracts may all be terminated earlier by the Company, or the Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but each has a individual, on 12 months notice.
The letters of appointment all request a period of one months notice should the non-executive director wish to resign.
External directorships Non-executive director Effective date of letter of appointment Where appropriate, the Group encourages directors and other senior managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman and the Edward Lea 10 July 2003 Group CEO, an invitation to join the Board of another company in a John Maxwell 10 July 2003 non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
Noel Harwerth 30 March 2004 In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration Malcolm Le May 30 March 2004 from the non-executive appointment.
For executive directors and other members of the executive team, external appointments are limited All non-executive directors including the Chairman are subject to a to one.
At the date of this report Bridget McIntyre, Simon Lee and three year rolling period of appointment in accordance with the Mark R Chambers all held directorships in not for profit organisations.
Non-executive directors John Napiers letter of appointment was effective 9 January 2003 and the Under the Companys Articles, the remuneration paid to non-executive term of his appointment was initially three years: at the beginning of 2006 directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
it was extended until 31 December 2008.
The fee structure for non-executive directors was last reviewed in 2005, Historical TSR performance and is shown below: The main graph below is included in the report of the Committee as a requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Base fee 45,000 Plus: The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE World Chairman of Group Audit Committee 20,000 Europe Non Life Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE Chairman of Remuneration Committee 12,500 World Europe Non Life Insurance Index comprises the range of European Chairman of Investment Committee 12,500 insurance businesses which most closely match our competitor group, and Additional fee for sitting on more than one committee the TSR comparator group selected for 2006 and 2007 awards under the but not acting as chair of any committee 5,000 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly capitalised companies, representing approximately 80% of the UK Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus payments or market.
TSR performance relative to the indices is shown over the five pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long term years from 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2007. incentive plans.
The inset graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the same The Committee determines the Chairmans remuneration.
The fee index over the 36 month period ending 31 December 2007. payable to John Napier in respect of his appointment as Chairman of the Board is 325,000p.
a. until the end of his current term of appointment.
The appointment may be terminated by the Chairman on three months TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over notice to the Company.
time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
Total shareholder return for RSA and FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index and FTSE 100 Index 250 Performance over the 36 months to 31 December 2007 200 225 200 150 175 150 100 125 50 100 31Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 04 05 06 07 0 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 02 03 04 05 06 07 RSA FTSE World Europe FTSE 100 Index Non Life Insurance Index 52 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Directors emoluments and interests Directors emoluments audited part Remuneration for the year ended 31 December was as follows: Base salary Allowances Total Total and fees and benefits Bonuses 2007 2006 Notes 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors 1 George Culmer 2 470 98 442 1,010 915 Andy Haste 3 842 283 787 1,912 1,834 Simon Lee 4 366 82 352 800 681 Bridget McIntyre 5 384 80 293 757 794 Non-executive directors Noel Harwerth 50 50 50 Edward Lea 65 65 65 Malcolm Le May 58 58 58 John Maxwell 58 58 58 John Napier 325 325 325 Notes 1.
2007 bonuses were calculated as described in the remuneration report on page 48.
In 2007 a maximum cash bonus of 100% of salary was achievable.
George Culmer received an annual performance bonus of 441,600 in respect of performance year 2007.
His allowances include 15% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2007 the amount paid was 71,000.
He also received car benefits worth 26,000 and medical benefits worth 1,000.
Andy Haste received an annual performance bonus of 786,600 in respect of performance year 2007.
His allowances include an age related percentage of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2007 the allowance was 27% and the amount paid was 228,000.
He also received car benefits and additional taxable travel benefits worth 45,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 10,000.
Simon Lee was appointed to the Board effective from 1 January 2007.
He received an annual performance bonus of 352,450 in respect of performance year 2007.
His allowances also included 17.5% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2007, the amount paid was 64,000.
He also received car benefits and additional taxable travel benefits worth 17,000 and medical benefits worth 1,000.
Bridget McIntyre received an annual performance bonus of 292,500 in respect of performance year 2007.
Her allowances include 15% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2007 the amount paid was 58,000.
She also received car benefits and additional taxable travel benefits worth 21,000 and medical benefits worth 1,000.
David Paige resigned as an executive director on 31 December 2006.
During 2006 he received total emoluments of 714,000.
Pension benefits audited part Non-executive directors are not entitled to any pension benefits.
The pension benefits earned by the executive directors, as members of Group defined benefit schemes, were as follows: Transfer value Transfer value Difference in Total of total of total transfer Change in accrued accrued accrued values accrued pension at pension at pension at less member pension 31 December 31 December 31 December contribution in year 2007 2007 2006 note 1 Andy Haste 2,043 8,811 94,190 68,403 14,871 Notes 1.
The difference in transfer values reflects the difference between the two transfer values calculated using relevant information on the respective dates and is not necessarily the actuarial increase of the underlying pension.
The figures set out in the table above provide information as required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Listing Rules require the change in accrued pension to be shown excluding the effects of inflation and the transfer value of this increase.
These figures are shown in the notes below.
The accrued pension figures shown are the annual amounts of members pension payable from normal retirement age.
Increases to pensions when in payment are applied in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
On the death of the member leaving a surviving spouse and or children, spouses and or childrens pensions are payable in accordance with scheme rules.
The benefits shown above in respect of Andy Haste relate to his membership of a defined benefit pension scheme up to the earnings cap.
For Andy Haste the increase in his accrued pension during the year, excluding the effects of inflation, was 1,862p.
a. and the transfer value in respect of this less his contributions was 14,323 at 31 December 2007.
Andy Haste is required to contribute to the scheme and also has the option of paying Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs.
Neither voluntary contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer value of the accrued benefits represents the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of Andy Hastes pension benefits.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to Andy Haste.
Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 53 The Company contributions paid in respect of executive directors who are members of Group defined contribution schemes, were as follows: Company Company contributions paid contributions paid in 2007 in 2006 George Culmer 70,575 65,504 Bridget McIntyre 57,656 63,219 Simon Lee elected not to join a Group pension plan on appointment, and receives a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of base salary instead.
Options audited part Movements in option holdings during 2007 were as follows: Options Options Options Options Options held at granted exercised lapsed held at 1 January during during during 31 December 2007 the year the year the year 2007 George Culmer ESOS 1,994,318 1,994,318 SAYE 12,466 12,466 Andy Haste ESOS 7,573,433 7,573,433 SAYE 23,858 23,858 Simon Lee ESOS 1,355,496 1,355,496 SAYE 23,858 23,858 Bridget McIntyre ESOS 301,724 301,724 SAYE 15,448 15,448 Options granted following the AGM in May 2003 are potentially exercisable if, at the end of the period of three business years starting with the business year in which the options were granted, the Group has achieved a return on capital ROC of at least 6% per annum after inflation and excluding items of an exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect the underlying performance of the business when averaged over the period.
One retest is allowed at the end of the fourth business year, but if the performance criterion has not been met over the full four year period, the options lapse.
Options granted between September 1998 and May 2003 are also subject to a performance condition that the Group must achieve a ROC of at least 6% when averaged over a consecutive three year period, but if the measure is not satisfied at the end of the third business year following the date of grant, the test can be repeated on an annual basis over the 10 year life of the option.
Options granted between April 1997 and September 1998 were subject to a different performance condition linked to TSR.
For options to be eligible for exercise, the Groups TSR has to be at or above the median of companies in the FTSE 100 Index over a consecutive period of three years, between the year of grant and the completion of the 10 year life of the option.
The test is conducted twice per year, at the end of March and September, by independent external specialists.
None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
Full details of all directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The official closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 172.1p per share and at its lowest was 128.3p per share: on the last dealing day of the year it was 148.2p per share.
Governance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 55 Long term incentive schemes audited part Long term incentive scheme interests held during 2007 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows: Share Matching Plan Share awards Share awards Share awards Share awards Share awards Share awards Dates by held at granted vested and vested but not lapsed held at which qualifying 1 January during exercised during exercised during during 31 December conditions must Notes 2007 the year the year the year the year 2007 be fulfilled George Culmer 1,3, 4 Deferred Share awards 128,938 128,938 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 386,814 386,814 08.04.08 Andy Haste 1,3, 4 Deferred Share awards 462,182 197,046 462,182 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 1,017,281 221,873 1,017,281 08.04.08 Simon Lee 1,3, 4 Deferred Share awards 139,409 43,327 96,082 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 337,042 48,786 288,246 08.04.08 Bridget McIntyre 1,2, 4 Deferred Share awards 150,000 150,000 01.11.08 Matching Share awards 450,000 450,000 01.11.08 Notes 1.
The market price of ordinary shares on 14 June 2004, 8 April 2005 and 1 November 2005, the dates on which the above long term incentive scheme interests were granted, was 79.25p, 81.25p and 100p respectively.
Bridget McIntyres award of Deferred and Matching shares was approved prior to her appointment on 1 November 2005.
Due to dealing restrictions in accordance with the Model Code, these awards could not be granted until 12 June 2006.
The number of shares was calculated with reference to the share price on 1 November 2005.
Subject to performance as described below, these awards may vest on the third anniversary of her appointment.
In all other respects these awards are subject to the same rules as other awards granted in 2005.
Matching Share awards are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of three times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of TSR targets over a single two year period.
TSR performance is measured relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards granted in 2004 and 2005, TSR was measured partly relative to FTSE 100 companies and partly relative to the following financial services comparator group companies: Aegon, Legal & General Group, Allianz Group, Old Mutual, AXA, Prudential, AVIVA, RAS, Generali and Zurich Financial Services Group.
For 50% of the Matching Share awards, where TSR is measured against the FTSE 100, full vesting will only occur at upper decile performance, vesting will occur in the ratio of shares under Matching Share awards to shares under Deferred Share awards of 2:1 at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
For the other 50% of the Matching Share awards, where TSR is measured against the financial services comparator group, full vesting will occur if TSR is highest in the comparator group, vesting in the ratio 2:1 will occur at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
Matching Share awards will not vest at below median performance.
For awards granted in 2004, the targets were measured over the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2006.
For awards granted in 2005, the targets were measured over the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2007.
The relevant TSR figures were averaged over the three months before the beginning and end of this performance period.
Additionally, no Matching Shares vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
Awards made in 2004 vested on 14 June 2007.
Andy Hastes 2004 awards were shown in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006 as having vested in that year in order to clarify the lapse of the proportion of the Matching Share awards that failed to meet performance targets.
Simon Lee was the only executive director to have exercised awards made in 2004 during the year.
The performance condition attaching to Matching Share awards granted in 2005 was met to the extent that three Matching Shares vested for each Deferred Share.
Awards made in 2005 are due to vest in 2008.
The market price of ordinary shares on 16 April 2007, the date on which long term incentive scheme interests were granted during the year, was 164.66p.
Deferred Shares are inclusive of voluntary Deferred Shares and compulsory Deferred Shares.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are purchased by Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Company Limited on behalf of each participant using part of the net annual bonus paid to them and are held in trust for three years.
These Deferred Shares are not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but the related Matching Share awards would lapse if the voluntary Deferred Shares are withdrawn within three years of acquisition.
Compulsory Deferred Shares are awarded as part of the annual bonus.
These Deferred Shares will normally vest in three years from the date of grant subject to continuous employment with the Group.
Matching Shares are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of 2.5 times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three year period.
One half of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares and all of the Matching Shares relating to voluntary Deferred Shares are subject to TSR performance relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards granted in 2006 and 2007 TSR will be measured relative to the following comparator group companies: Aegon, Alleanza, Allianz, AVIVA, AXA, Baloise, Fortis, Generali, Legal & General, Munich Re, QBE, Swiss Re, and Zurich Financial Services.
Full vesting will only occur at upper quintile performance: at median performance 25% of the Matching Shares will vest.
The remaining half of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares are subject to a ROE performance condition.
If underlying ROE over three years commencing on the year of grant is below 10%, no part of the award subject to ROE performance will vest.
If underlying ROE over three years is 10%, 25% of the award will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 16% or higher, 100% of the awards will vest.
For the purpose of establishing the number of Matching Shares relating to voluntary Deferred Shares that may be awarded, the gross value of that part of the annual bonus payment that a participant elects to voluntarily defer is used.
Performance conditions relating to awards of Performance Shares are the same as those relating to compulsory Deferred Shares as described above.
One half of an award of Performance Shares may vest subject to the TSR performance condition and one half may vest subject to the ROE performance condition.
The above table shows the date by which qualifying conditions for awards made on 16 April 2007 must be fulfilled.
For awards made on 12 June 2006, the date by which qualifying conditions must be fulfilled is 12 June 2009.
No other directors of the Company held long term incentive scheme interests during 2007.
John Maxwell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board 26 February 2008 Financial statements Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 57 Independent auditors statement to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statements of Royal & Sun Basis of opinion Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The which comprise the summary consolidated income statement, summary Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, summary Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on consolidated balance sheet, summary consolidated cashflow statement, the Companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies and the audit opinions on those financial statements and the remuneration report.
information in the remuneration report and the summary directors emoluments and interests that are described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statements are consistent with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the full Annual Accounts, the directors report and the remuneration accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has report of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members 31 December 2007 and comply with the applicable requirements those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not made thereunder.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for Deloitte & Touche LLP our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 26 February 2008 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statements within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements with the full Annual Accounts, the directors report and the remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statements.
58 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Continuing operations Income Gross written premiums 6,596 6,264 Less: reinsurance premiums 759 780 Net written premiums 5,837 5,484 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 235 108 Less: change in provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 5 84 Change in provision for unearned premiums 230 192 Net earned premiums 5,607 5,292 Net investment return 709 600 Other operating income 113 121 Total income 6,429 6,013 Expenses Gross claims incurred 4,044 3,758 Less: claims recoveries from reinsurers 387 305 Net claims and benefits 3,657 3,453 Underwriting and policy acquisition costs 1,776 1,626 Unwind of discount 81 42 Other operating expenses 119 151 Total expenses 5,633 5,272 Results of operating activities 796 741 Finance costs 104 92 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 22 1 Net share of profit after tax of associates 1 Profit before tax from continuing operations 670 649 Income tax expense 29 170 Profit for the year from continuing operations 641 479 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 13 499 Profit loss for the year 628 20 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 596 52 Minority interests 32 32 628 20 Earnings per share on profit from continuing operations attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Parent Company Basic 19.3p 15.0p Diluted 19.0p 14.8p Earnings per share on profit loss attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Parent Company Basic 18.9p 2.1 p Diluted 18.6p 2.1 p Ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year Interim dividend paid per share 2.48p 1.75p Final dividend proposed per share 4.53p 4.12p The total emoluments of the directors were 5,035k 2006: 4,813k.
Financial statements Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 59 Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Exchange gains losses net of tax 140 151 Fair value losses gains net of tax 67 32 Pension fund actuarial losses gains net of tax 16 153 Net gains recognised in equity 57 34 Profit loss for the year 628 20 Total recognised income for the year 685 14 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 670 10 Minority interests 15 24 685 14 Summary consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 663 552 Property and equipment 377 385 Investment property 429 454 Investments in associates 105 27 Financial assets 11,340 10,457 Total investments 11,874 10,938 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 1,872 1,927 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 2,579 2,225 Deferred acquisition costs 542 453 Current tax assets 19 17 Deferred tax assets 87 29 Other debtors and other assets 963 806 1,069 852 Cash and cash equivalents 1,509 1,831 20,485 19,163 Non current and disposal group assets held for sale 108 3,485 Total assets 20,593 22,648 Equity, reserves and liabilities Equity and reserves Shareholders equity 3,077 2,561 Minority interests 67 331 Total equity and reserves 3,144 2,892 Liabilities Loan capital 1,194 1,192 Insurance contract liabilities 13,727 12,790 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 426 391 Borrowings 303 8 Current tax liabilities 92 56 Deferred tax liabilities 224 319 Provisions 331 380 Other liabilities 1,087 1, 026 Provisions and other liabilities 1,734 1,781 17,384 16,162 Non current and disposal group liabilities held for sale 65 3,594 Total liabilities 17,449 19,756 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 20,593 22,648 The financial statements were approved on 26 February 2008 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: George Culmer Chief Financial Officer 60 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Summary consolidated cashflow statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Cash generated from continuing operations 66 406 Tax paid 127 118 Interest received 587 527 Interest paid 101 82 Dividends received 1 1 Pension deficit funding 86 86 Cashflows from discontinued operations 37 531 Net cashflows from operating activities 303 117 Proceeds from sales or maturities of: Investment contracts 8,672 8,166 Investment property 18 55 Property and equipment 26 43 Intangible assets 1 1 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 407 Investments in associates 22 Purchase or settlement of: Investment contracts 8,878 7,840 Investment property 8 17 Property and equipment 28 37 Intangible assets 66 127 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 52 69 Investments in associates 64 Cashflows from discontinued operations 83 606 Net cashflows from investing activities 681 781 Proceeds from issue of share capital 304 6 Purchase of shares from minorities 616 121 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 102 78 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 9 9 Dividends paid to minority interests 31 9 Net movement in long term borrowings 25 74 Net movement in other borrowings 293 243 Cashflows from discontinued operations 9 Net cashflows from financing activities 186 389 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 564 509 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 2,040 1,612 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 62 81 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 1,538 2,040 Financial statements Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 61 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Introduction Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept year are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value Expected loss ratios.
through the aggregation and management of these risks.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterThe uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the financial Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
In statements principally arises in respect of the insurance liabilities of selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of the company.
the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to select the most The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision appropriate best estimate.
for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for outstanding claims.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future policies in force at the balance sheet date.
Outstanding claims represents development of large claims.
the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by the balance sheet date but have not yet been finally settled.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance sheet The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the Groups date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have occurred business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major but have not yet been notified to the company and those that are not yet classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions are apparent to the insured.
greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a broader As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs knowledge of current industry trends in claims development.
As an to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental pollution appropriate provisions.
is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding Estimation techniques claims and unexpired periods of risk.
Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the determination conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative evidence from Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases and historical claims as wide a range of sources as possible and combining these to form the payment trends.
The approach also includes the consideration of overall estimate.
This technique means that the estimate is inevitably the development of loss payment trends, the potential longer term deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic valuation approach, significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, legislative changes, whereby a range of possible outcomes is estimated and probabilities judicial decisions and economic and political conditions.
assigned thereto, is only possible in a limited number of situations.
Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding of calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups estimates of IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated in losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of several commonly accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from time accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a number of different to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods based upon IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of a pension the following: funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable duration The development of previously settled claims, where payments to date and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund on this basis are extrapolated for each prior year is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be impacted by changes in equity markets.
62 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies continued Uncertainties and contingencies The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to reduce under a number of specific headings, such as: such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise Asbestos and environmental claims to a policyholder suffering an insured loss The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable that is generally greater than those encountered for other classes of Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to determine the future as a result of the event occurring development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for a of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when loss suffered.
theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating claims provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the Group employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
pollution experts and external legal and professional advisors.
There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the claim.
for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period There are many factors that will determine the level of uncertainty such of up to 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and court judgments that of claims we will receive particularly difficult broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original insurance, Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
parties and insurers Emerging court decisions increasing or decreasing insurer liability The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The for claims of this nature Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision For US liabilities from our London market business, developments in for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each Acquisitions and disposals operating segment that may develop and that could have a material The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographical and normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy of claims policies make it not possible to predict whether material development reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance balances, inquiries will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries of local regulators and occurrence.
The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given to potential costs, risks judgments and assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within and issues in relation to the integration of any proposed acquisitions with each territory and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The Group will seek to receive the benefit of diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being possible to identify appropriate contractual representations and warranties in connection individual judgments and assumptions that are more likely than others to with any acquisition and, where necessary, additional indemnifications have a material impact on the future development of the insurance liabilities.
in relation to specific risks although there can be no guarantee that such protection will be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to asbestos provide relevant representations, warranties and indemnities to and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk which could counterparties on any disposal.
While such representations, warranties develop in the future and that could have a material impact on the Groups and indemnities are essential components of many contractual financial position.
relationships, they do not represent the underlying purpose of the transaction.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time to time lead to us receiving claims from counterparties.
Financial statements Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 | RSA | 63 Contracts with third parties Investment risk The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and distribution The Group is exposed to credit risk on its invested assets.
Credit risk arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its business and is includes the non performance of contractual payment obligations on reliant upon those third parties performing their obligations in accordance invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of invested with the terms and conditions of the contracts.
assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Our insurance investment portfolios are Litigation, mediation and arbitration concentrated in listed securities with very low levels of exposure to assets The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject without quoted market prices.
We use model based analysis to verify to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and asset values when market values are not readily available.
other sectoral inquiries in the normal course of its business.
In addition the Group is subject to litigation in connection with its former ownership We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to of the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and markets.
We have strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, although there can be no assurance Rating agencies that losses resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is governmental or sectoral inquiries and pending or threatened litigation dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position or the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A cashflows for any period.
At the present time the ratings are A stable from S&P upgraded from Ain December 2007, Apositive outlook from AM Best and A3 Reinsurance stable from Moodys.
Any worsening in the ratings could have an adverse The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is insurance business.
also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers with Regulatory environment whom we do business our strategy is to seek reinsurers with the best The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant combination of credit rating, price and capacity.
We publish internally a list change in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We continue to of authorised reinsurers who pass our selection process and which our monitor the developments and react accordingly.
operations may use for new transactions.
In particular the Group is continuing to monitor and respond to ongoing The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including consultation following publication of the Solvency II Framework Directive, those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the which is intended, in the medium term, to achieve greater harmonisation financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by of approach across European member states to assessing capital requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having resources and requirements.
The directors are confident that the Group regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is the will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to pay amounts due to the Group in full.
Changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results We publish our consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly other European currencies and the US Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling value of our investments and the return on our investments.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at average exchange rates.
Balance sheet assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
64 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 Shareholder information Full Annual Report and Accounts Distribution of shares by geography Distribution of shares by geography A A nn ala ylsiyss of is io nvf eisn to vre sstors The Summary Financial Statements are extracted from the consolidated Unit trusts UK Mutual funds financial statements contained in the full 2007 Annual Report and 65% 37% Accounts.
The auditors report on the 2007 Annual Accounts and the Asia & others Private Retail 9% 12% auditable part of the remuneration report and the auditors statement USA & Canada Others under section 235 3 whether the directors report is consistent with the 12% 15% accounts are each unqualified and the auditors report does not contain a Pension funds Europe 23% 14% statement under section 237 2 or section 237 3.
Insurance 13% This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements will not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state Share ownership of affairs of the Group as would be provided by the full Annual Report and RSA is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code RSA.
Shareholders requiring more detailed information have the right The average total daily trading volume during 2007 was approximately to obtain free of charge a copy of the Groups full Annual Report and 28m ordinary shares.
The opening market price of an ordinary share on Accounts.
Copies of the full Annual Report and Accounts are available on 2 January 2007 was 152.50p and closing market price on 31 December our website www.
com or by writing to the Group Company 2007 was 148.20p.
The highest daily closing price of an ordinary share was Secretary at the Registered Office address below.
You may elect to 172.10p on 18 May 2007 and lowest daily closing price was 128.30p on receive future copies of the full Annual Report and Accounts by writing 30 July 2007. to Equiniti Limited.
Shareholdings by size Registered Office and Group Corporate Centre No of shares Shareholders % Shares % 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
Frequently Total 49,428 100.00 3,252.9m 100.00 asked questions and answers in respect of shareholding matters are detailed on the Companys website.
Managing your shareholding Share Register Fraud: protecting your investment Registrar It is required by law that our shareholder register is available for public The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited.
inspection and we are unable to control the use of information obtained Queries regarding your shareholding should be addressed by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any approaches purporting to Equiniti at the following address: to originate from RSA with caution.
RSA will never contact its shareholders directly to provide recommendation or advice regarding Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, your shareholding and neither does it appoint third parties to do so.
Tips on protecting your shares Overseas callers should use 44 0 121 415 7064.
Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference Shareholders with a text phone facility should use 44 0 871 384 2255. number in a safe place and destroy any documentation which you no longer need by shredding it Please quote the company reference number 0059 and your shareholder Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address account number on your share certificate and dividend tax vouchers Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrars if you when contacting or corresponding with Equiniti.
do not receive your dividend cheque, or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Annual General Meeting Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via Ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual a nominee.
General Meeting AGM, which will be held in The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE Amalgamation of accounts at 11.00am on 19 May 2008.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable to Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to attend the AGM to ask a question in person are invited to send the multiple accounts in their name should write to Equiniti to request that Chairman an email via the Companys website or to write to the their accounts be amalgamated.
Chairman at the Registered Office address above.
Other information Introduction Low cost share dealing facilities taken up or sold.
Similarly, for former Royal Insurance shareholders an We are a leading general insurer delivering 1 Highlights A telephone and internet dealing service is available through adjustment to tax cost is required to take account of the 1993 rights issue, 2 At a glance Equiniti which provides a simple way of buying and selling RSA shares.
according to whether the rights were taken up or sold.
4 Chairmans statement Commission is 1% with a minimum charge of 25 for telephone 6 Group CEOs review dealing and 0.5% with a minimum charge of 15 for internet dealing.
Disabled shareholders For telephone sales call 44 0 845 6037 037 between 8.30am RSA is committed to providing a quality service to all of its shareholders.
We operate in 28 countries and provide and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to An induction loop is installed at the AGM venue.
Please contact the Business review www.
You will need your shareholder Company Secretarys department at the address above if you require 11 Group strategy general insurance products and services reference number as shown on your share certificate.
12 Progress against services are also widely provided by other organisations.
strategic priorities in over 130 countries.
The Unclaimed Assets Register 14 International business review ShareGift RSA supplies unclaimed dividend data to The Unclaimed Assets Register 17 UK business review Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it UAR, which provides investors who have lost track of shareholdings with 20 Emerging Markets business review uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity the opportunity to search the UARs database of unclaimed financial assets Our portfolio of businesses is diverse and 23 Financial review through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr on payment of a small, fixed fee.
The UAR donates part of the search fee 27 Risk framework Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686.
Further details can be obtained from: The Unclaimed Assets provides exposure to markets at different 30 Corporate responsibility share transfer form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further details can Register, 6th Floor, Cardinal Place, 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL.
32 Executive team points in the insurance cycle.
be obtained from: ShareGift, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London, Telephone: 44 0 870 241 1713.
The website address is www.
American Depositary Receipts Capital gains tax The Company terminated its listing, in the form of American Depositary Governance 2007 has been another strong year.
The market value at 31 March 1982 of each post consolidation ordinary Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange on 30 October 2006.
37 Directors report share of 27.5p in the Company, for capital gains tax purposes after 40 Corporate governance relevant adjustments, was 146.41p 25p shares 133.1p for former Should you have an enquiry relating to the above please contact the 45 Remuneration report Royal Insurance shareholders and 57.97p 25p shares 52.7p for former Investor Relations department at Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, 52 Directors emoluments and interests Sun Alliance shareholders.
An adjustment to tax cost is required to take 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
account of the 2003 rights issue, according to whether the rights were Telephone: 44 0 20 7111 7136.
Financial statements 57 Independent auditors statement to the Financial calendar 2008 members of Royal & Sun Alliance 27 February 2008 Announcement of the full year results for 2007, the 7 August 2008 Announcement of the half year results for the six months Insurance Group plc ordinary final dividend for 2007 and the first preference dividend for 2008 ended 30 June 2008, the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 and the 58 Summary consolidated income statement second preference dividend for 2008 5 March 2008 Ex dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 59 Summary consolidated statement of and the first preference dividend for 2008 13 August 2008 Ex dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 recognised income and expense 7 March 2008 Record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 and 15 August 2008 Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 59 Summary consolidated balance sheet the first preference dividend for 2008 21 August 2008 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the 60 Summary consolidated cashflow statement 13 March 2008 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 61 Estimation techniques, uncertainties ordinary final dividend for 2007 27 August 2008 Ex dividend date for the second preference dividend and contingencies 1 April 2008 Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2008 for 2008 8 May 2008 Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by 29 August 2008 Record date for the second preference dividend for 2008 Equiniti Limited in relation to the ordinary final dividend for 2007 1 October 2008 Payment date for the second preference dividend Other information 19 May 2008 Annual General Meeting for 2008 64 Shareholder information 6 June 2008 Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 31 October 2008 Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates ibc Financial calendar subject to shareholder approval at the AGM by Equiniti Limited in relation to the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 28 November 2008 Payment of the ordinary interim dividend for 2008 provisional date Visit www.
For further details, reference should be made to the important disclaimer below.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements is only a summary of information in the Groups full Annual Report and Accounts, directors Visit www.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements report and remuneration report.
contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Important disclaimer For a discussion of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the Important This document contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities disclaimer on the inside back cover.
Pages 1 to 31 constitute the business review of RSA and are Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to certain of the Companys plans and its current including changes related to capital and solvency requirements, the impact of competition, incorporated by reference into the directors report set out on pages 37 to 39.
The directors report has goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon applicable English Company Law These statements are often, but not always, made through use of words or phrases such combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, believe, is anticipated, estimated, and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate.
restrictions provided by such law.
intends, plans, seeks, projection, outlook and aims.
By their nature, all forward looking As a result, the Companys actual future financial condition, performance and results may statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in the Companys forward circumstances which are beyond the Companys control, including amongst other things, UK looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking domestic and global economic business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations statements save in respect of any requirement under applicable law or regulation.
RSA Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 UNDERWRITING PROGRESS www.
