70 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Introduction Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept year are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value Expected loss ratios.
through the aggregation and management of these risks.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterThe uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the financial Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
In statements principally arises in respect of the insurance liabilities of selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of the company.
the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to select the most The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision appropriate best estimate.
for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for outstanding claims.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future policies in force at the balance sheet date.
Outstanding claims represents development of large claims.
the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by the balance sheet date but have not yet been finally settled.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance sheet The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the Groups date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have occurred business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major but have not yet been notified to the company and those that are not yet classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions are apparent to the insured.
greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a broader As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs knowledge of current industry trends in claims development.
As an to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental pollution appropriate provisions.
is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding Estimation techniques claims and unexpired periods of risk.
Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the determination conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative evidence from Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases and historical claims as wide a range of sources as possible and combining these to form the payment trends.
The approach also includes the consideration of overall estimate.
This technique means that the estimate is inevitably the development of loss payment trends, the potential longer term deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic valuation approach, significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, legislative changes, whereby a range of possible outcomes is estimated and probabilities judicial decisions and economic and political conditions.
assigned thereto, is only possible in a limited number of situations.
Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding of calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups estimates of IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated in losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of several commonly accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from time accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a number of different to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods based upon IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of a pension the following: funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable duration The development of previously settled claims, where payments to date and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund on this basis are extrapolated for each prior year is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be impacted by changes in equity markets.
Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 71 Uncertainties and contingencies The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to reduce under a number of specific headings, such as: such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise Asbestos and environmental claims to a policyholder suffering an insured loss The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable that is generally greater than those encountered for other classes of Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to determine the future as a result of the event occurring development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for a of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when loss suffered.
theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating claims provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the Group employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
pollution experts and external legal and professional advisors.
There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the claim.
for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period There are many factors that will determine the level of uncertainty such of up to 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and court judgments that of claims we will receive particularly difficult broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original insurance, Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
parties and insurers Emerging court decisions increasing or decreasing insurer liability The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The for claims of this nature Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision For US liabilities from our London market business, developments in for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each Acquisitions and disposals operating segment that may develop and that could have a material The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographical and normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy of claims policies make it not possible to predict whether material development reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance balances, inquiries will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries of local regulators and occurrence.
The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given to potential costs, risks judgments and assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within and issues in relation to the integration of any proposed acquisitions with each territory and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The Group will seek to receive the benefit of diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being possible to identify appropriate contractual representations and warranties in connection individual judgments and assumptions that are more likely than others to with any acquisition and, where necessary, additional indemnifications have a material impact on the future development of the insurance liabilities.
in relation to specific risks although there can be no guarantee that such protection will be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to asbestos provide relevant representations, warranties and indemnities to and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk which could counterparties on any disposal.
While such representations, warranties develop in the future and that could have a material impact on the Groups and indemnities are essential components of many contractual financial position.
relationships, they do not represent the underlying purpose of the transaction.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time to time lead to us receiving claims from counterparties.
72 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies continued Contracts with third parties Investment risk The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and distribution The Group is exposed to credit risk on its invested assets.
Credit risk arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its business and is includes the non performance of contractual payment obligations on reliant upon those third parties performing their obligations in accordance invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of invested with the terms and conditions of the contracts.
assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Our insurance investment portfolios are Litigation, mediation and arbitration concentrated in listed securities with very low levels of exposure to assets The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject without quoted market prices.
We use model based analysis to verify to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and asset values when market values are not readily available.
other sectoral inquiries in the normal course of its business.
In addition the Group is subject to litigation in connection with its former ownership We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to of the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and markets.
We have strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, although there can be no assurance Rating agencies that losses resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is governmental or sectoral inquiries and pending or threatened litigation dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position or the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A cashflows for any period.
At the present time the ratings are A stable from S&P upgraded from Ain December 2007, Apositive outlook from AM Best and A3 Reinsurance stable from Moodys.
Any worsening in the ratings could have an adverse The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is insurance business.
also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers with Regulatory environment whom we do business our strategy is to seek reinsurers with the best The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant combination of credit rating, price and capacity.
We publish internally a list change in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We continue to of authorised reinsurers who pass our selection process and which our monitor the developments and react accordingly.
operations may use for new transactions.
In particular the Group is continuing to monitor and respond to ongoing The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including consultation following publication of the Solvency II Framework Directive, those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the which is intended, in the medium term, to achieve greater harmonisation financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by of approach across European member states to assessing capital requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having resources and requirements.
The directors are confident that the Group regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is the will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to pay amounts due to the Group in full.
Changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results We publish our consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly other European currencies and the US Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling value of our investments and the return on our investments.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at average exchange rates.
Balance sheet assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
