Divisional review continued Citizens Highlights We remained No.
1 US Small Business Administration lender in New England, Pennsylvania and Delaware.
Since the late 1980s, Citizens has approved more than 41,000 Small Business Administration loans totalling more than $2 billion.
We introduced e-Statements in 2007 and expect to save at least 10 million sheets of paper in 2008.
The Customer Relationship Review, an automated profiling and customer data management tool, was introduced to enhance and improve customer service.
Contribution $m 07 2,647 06 2,917 Very challenging economic conditions affected our personal lending, mortgage and auto loans businesses.
However, Citizens continued to make progress in developing its corporate and commercial franchise.
In doing so it drew on the strengths of the wider Group, enabling us to make private placements, public bond offerings and loan syndications and to provide cross-border solutions to clients.
Citizens Foreign Exchange and Derivatives revenue grew by more than 20%.
ePrize LLC, the worlds largest interactive promotions agency, Kroger Personal Finance, our joint venture with the second was one of the first recipients of largest US supermarket group, sold over two million products, Charter Ones Job Creation Loan including 1-2-3 Rewards MasterCards, and prepaid and Program, a $200 million loan gift cards.
commitment to companies that create jobs in Michigan.
Our colleagues who serve customers every day often know best what we can do to improve our service.
So last year we Ellen Wolf, CFO, American Water, undertook a range of activities to make sure those ideas came with Thomas Connor, RBS Greenwich Capital and Steve Stambaugh of to the fore.
This resulted in more than 270 improvements to Citizens discuss the private placement service provision.
Our investment was rewarded with an increase of Senior Unsecured Notes.
in the customer satisfaction score to 85%.
18 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Divisional review
