Additional information continued Description of property and equipment At 27 February 2008, the directors of the company had options The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, to purchase a total of 8,603,307 ordinary shares of the principally in the UK.
At 31 December 2007, the Royal Bank company.
and NatWest had 649 and 1,629 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank and First Active had a network of 282 As at 31 December 2007, almost all of the companys US$ branches in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
denominated preference shares and ADSs representing Citizens had 1,616 retail banking offices including in-store ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the branches covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, US.
All other shares were predominantly held by shareholders Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New registered outside the US.
York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the Material contracts Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under The company and its subsidiaries are party to various leases with unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Groups contracts in the ordinary course of business.
During the year principal properties include its headquarters at Gogarburn, ended 31 December 2007, the company entered into a Edinburgh, its principal offices in London at 135 and 280 Consortium and Shareholders Agreement dated 28 May 2007, Bishopsgate and the Drummond House administration centre among the company, Banco Santander Central Hispano, S. A. located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
Fortis N. V. Fortis SA NV and RFS Holdings B. V. which governs the relationships amongst these parties in relation to the offers Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment by RFS Holdings B. V. to the holders of ABN AMRO ordinary properties, computers and other equipment in the year ended shares and American Depositary Shares, as more fully 31 December 2007 was 1,792 million 2006 1,140 million: described in the section entitled Summary of the Consortium 2005 1,275 million.
and Shareholders Agreement included in the companys Form F-4, as amended Reg.
Other than the Major shareholders aforementioned agreement, there have been no material Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary and contracts entered into outside the ordinary course of business.
preference shares are given on page 98.
FSA Listing Rules disclosure There have been no significant changes in the percentage With effect from 17 October 2007, the Group transferred to ownership of major shareholders of the companys ordinary Santander a related party for the purposes of the FSA Listing and preference shares during the three years ended Rules its rights and obligations under the Consortium and 27 February 2008.
All shareholders within a class of the Shareholders Agreement in respect of the ABN AMRO Global companys shares have the same voting rights.
The company Clients business in Brazil for 750 million.
is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or any foreign government and the company is unaware of any arrangement which might result in a change of control.
234 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Additional information
