Taxation for US Holders Ordinary shares, preference shares, ordinary ADSs and The following discussion summarises certain US federal and preference ADSs UK tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and Taxation of dividends disposition of ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Tax Treaty and the preference shares, ADSs representing ordinary shares US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, ordinary ADSs, ADSs representing non-cumulative dollar US Holders of ordinary ADSs and preference ADSs should be preference shares preference ADSs or PROs by a treated as owners of the ordinary shares and the nonbeneficial owner that is a citizen or resident of the United cumulative dollar preference shares underlying such ADSs.
States or that otherwise will be subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of the ordinary shares, The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, ADSs are pre-released or intermediaries in the chain of preference ADSs or PROs a US Holder.
This summary ownership between US Holders and the issuer of the security assumes that a US Holder is holding ordinary shares, nonunderlying the ADSs may be taking actions that are cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits for US preference ADSs or PROs, as applicable, as capital assets.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with This summary does not address the tax consequences to a US the claiming of the reduced rate of tax applicable to dividends Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an individual, received by certain non-corporate US Holders.
Accordingly, ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes or ii availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by generally, that is a corporation which alone or together with one certain non-corporate US Holders of ordinary ADSs could be or more associated companies, controls, directly or indirectly, affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
The company is not required to withhold UK tax at source from The statements and practices set forth below regarding US dividend payments it makes or from any amount including any and UK tax laws, including the US UK double taxation amounts in respect of accrued dividends distributed by the convention relating to income and capital gains which entered company.
US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty, and the US UK resident in the UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession double taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent Estate Tax Treaty, are based on those laws and practices as establishment in connection with which their ordinary shares, in force and as applied in practice on the date of this Report.
non-cumulative preference shares, ordinary ADSs or This summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax preference ADSs are held used or acquired will not be subject considerations and holders are advised to satisfy themselves to UK tax in respect of any dividends received on the relevant as to the overall tax consequences, including specifically the shares or ADSs.
consequences under US federal, state, local and other laws, and possible changes in taxation law, of the acquisition, Distributions by the company will constitute foreign source ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, non-cumulative dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
profits of the company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Because the company does not maintain The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, calculations of its earnings and profits under US federal and will not become, a passive foreign investment company income tax principles, it is expected that distributions will be PFIC see Passive Foreign Investment Company reported to US Holders as dividends.
Payments will not be Considerations on page 246. eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed to corporate US Holders.
Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
Dividends will be included in a US Holders income on the date of the US Holders or in the case of ADSs, the Depositarys receipt of the dividend.
The amount of any dividend income paid in pounds sterling or euros will be a US dollar amount calculated by reference to the relevant exchange rate in effect on the date of such receipt regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, the US Holder generally should not be required to recognise foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
If the amount of such dividend is not converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, the US Holder may have foreign currency gain or loss.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 243 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Taxation of capital gains Estate and gift tax A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an Subject to the discussion of the Estate Tax Treaty in the next individual, ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be paragraph, ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of shares, ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs beneficially owned an ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, by an individual may be subject to UK inheritance tax subject an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS unless at the time of to exemptions and reliefs on the death of the individual or in the disposal, in the case of a corporate US Holder, such US certain circumstances, if such shares or ADSs are the subject Holder carries on a trade in the UK through a permanent of a gift including a transfer at less than market value by such establishment or, in the case of any other US Holder, such US individual.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts Holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK to individuals made more than seven years before the death of through a UK branch or agency and such ordinary share, the donor.
Ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference non-cumulative dollar preference share, ordinary ADS or shares, ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs held by the trustees preference ADS is or has been used, held or acquired by or of a settlement will also be subject to UK inheritance tax.
for the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, Special rules apply to such settlements.
permanent establishment, branch or agency.
Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily not resident or An ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, ordinarily resident in the UK.
an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United A US Holder will, upon the sale or other disposition of an States for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, an national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on ordinary ADS or a preference ADS, or upon the redemption of the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of such share or a non-cumulative dollar preference share or preference ADS, ADS, except in certain cases where the share or ADS i is generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the purposes assuming that in the case of a redemption of a nonsettlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and cumulative dollar preference share or a preference ADS, such US was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount equal to iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the the difference between the amount realised excluding in the performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax case of a redemption any amount treated as a dividend for US Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or federal income tax purposes, which will be taxed accordingly gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a and the US Holders tax basis in such share or ADS.
This capital case where the ordinary share, non-cumulative dollar gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if the US preference share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is subject Holder held the share or ADS so sold, disposed or redeemed to both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT recognised on the disposal of an ordinary share, a nonconsequences of transferring an ADS or ADR in registered cumulative dollar preference share, an ordinary ADS or a form otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the preference ADS will generally be entitled, subject to certain ADS or of transferring an ordinary share or a non-cumulative limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal income dollar preference share.
A transfer of a registered ADS or ADR tax liability in respect of such gain.
executed and retained in the United States will not give rise to stamp duty and an agreement to transfer a registered ADS or If a corporate US Holder is subject to UK corporation tax by ADR will not give rise to SDRT.
Stamp duty or SDRT will reason of carrying on a trade in the UK through a permanent normally be payable on or in respect of transfers of ordinary establishment and its ordinary share, non-cumulative dollar shares or non-cumulative dollar preference shares and preference share or ADS is, or has been, used, held or accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to acquire acquired for the purposes of that permanent establishment, ordinary shares or non-cumulative dollar preference shares is certain provisions introduced by the Finance No.
2 Act 2005 advised to consult its own tax advisers in relation to stamp will apply if the US Holder holds its ordinary share, nonduty and SDRT.
cumulative dollar preference share or ADS for a tax avoidance purpose.
If these provisions apply, dividends on the ordinary share, non-cumulative dollar preference share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS, as well as certain fair value credits and debits arising in respect of such share or ADS, will be brought within the charge to UK corporation tax on income and the UK tax position outlined in the preceding paragraphs will not apply in relation to such US Holder.
244 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder information PROs United Kingdom United States Taxation of payments on the PROs Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than tax, as to which see below will constitute foreign source dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and section 987 of the Income Tax Act 2007 and therefore profits of the company, as determined for US federal income payments of interest will not be subject to withholding or tax purposes.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendsdeduction for or on account of UK taxation as long as the received deduction allowed to corporate US Holders.
A US PROs remain at all times listed on a recognised stock Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, exchange within the meaning of section 1005 of the Income if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a Tax Act 2007.
In all other cases, an amount must be withheld foreign tax credit with respect to such tax.
on account of UK income tax at the savings rate currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary by HM Revenue Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon & Customs under the Treaty and except that the withholding a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain obligation is disapplied in respect of payments to persons who non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 the company reasonably believes are within the charge to January 2011 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
corporation tax or fall within various categories enjoying a Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax special tax status including charities and pension funds, advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special or are partnerships consisting of such persons unless HM rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
Where interest has been paid under deduction of UK withholding tax, US Holders In addition, bills have been introduced in both the US House may be able to recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
and the US Senate which would, if enacted, deny the favourable tax rates described in the preceding paragraph for Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest dividends paid in respect of certain securities, including is paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an securities such as PROs, where the issuer of the securities is individual, may be required to provide information in relation to allowed a deduction under the tax laws of a foreign country the payment and the individual concerned to HM Revenue & with respect to such dividend.
The proposed legislation would Customs.
HM Revenue & Customs may communicate this apply to dividends received after the date of its enactment.
It information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
is not possible to predict whether the proposed legislation will be enacted, either in its present form or any other form.
NonHM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the corporate US Holders should consult their tax advisers with issue of the PROs that interest payments would not be treated respect to the potential enactment of currently proposed as distributions for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact legislation and its application in their particular circumstances.
that interest may be deferred under the terms of issue: or ii the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at the time A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a PRO, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal company which is associated with the company or by a income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a funded company.
A company will be associated with the redemption, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed company if, broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as to own, any ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company the company.
A company will be a funded company for these in an amount equal to the difference between the amount purposes if there are arrangements involving that company realised excluding any amount in respect of mandatory being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an interest and any missed payments which are to be satisfied on entity associated with the company.
In this respect, HM a missed payment satisfaction date, which would be treated as Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company holding an ordinary income and the US Holders tax basis in the PRO.
interest in the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities with any company associated with the company will not be a A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain funded company by virtue of such facilities.
Interest on the recognised on the disposal of PROs will generally be entitled, PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax purposes and, subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US as such, may be subject to income tax by direct assessment federal income tax liability in respect of such gain.
even where paid without withholding.
However, interest with a UK source received without deduction or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in connection with which the interest is received or to which the PROs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest received by certain categories of agents such as some brokers and investment managers.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 245 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued EU Directive on taxation of savings income professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
The European Union has adopted a directive regarding the PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is taxation of savings income.
The Directive requires member determined to be the United States for the purposes of the states of the European Union to provide to the tax authorities of Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the UK, will not other member states details of payments of interest and other be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on similar income paid by a person to an individual or certain a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in certain cases where other persons resident in another member state, except that the PRO i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of Belgium, Luxembourg and Austria may instead impose a the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States withholding system for a transitional period unless during such and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business period they elect otherwise.
property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the Disposal including redemption performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or US Holder will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a capital gains unless the US Holder carries on a trade which case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax and for this purpose includes a profession or a vocation in the UK US federal estate or gift tax.
through a branch or agency and the PROs are, or have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, branch or Stamp duty and SDRT agency.
No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, transfer or redemption of the PROs.
A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, Passive Foreign Investment Company considerations unless the US Holder is an individual or other non-corporate A foreign corporation will be a PFIC in any taxable year in taxpayer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment or which, after taking into account the income and assets of the accounting period carries on a trade in the UK through a corporation and certain subsidiaries pursuant to applicable branch or agency to which the PROs are attributable.
look-through rules, either i at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or ii at least 50% of the average value of Annual tax charges its assets is attributable to assets which produce passive Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK income or are held for the production of passive income.
The tax charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange company does not believe that it was as a PFIC for its 2007 rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from taxable year.
Although interest income is generally passive the PROs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a income, a special rule allows banks to treat their banking trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK business income as non-passive.
To qualify for this rule, a bank permanent establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
must satisfy certain requirements regarding its licensing and activities.
The company believes that it currently meets these Inheritance tax requirements.
The companys possible status as a PFIC must In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing be determined annually, however, and may be subject to system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt change if the company fails to qualify under this special rule in respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who for any year in which a US Holder holds ordinary shares, nonis not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, inheritance tax purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to preference ADSs or PROs.
If the company were to be treated consider that the situs of securities held in this manner is not as a PFIC in any year during which a US Holder holds ordinary necessarily determined by the place where the securities are shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, US Holders would generally charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences.
less than market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to potential application of the PFIC rules to the ownership and individuals made more than seven years before the death of disposition of the companys ordinary shares, non-cumulative the donor.
However, exemption from, or a reduction of, any dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax PROs.
US Holders should consult their 246 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder information
