Divisional review continued Corporate Markets UK Corporate Banking Highlights An independent survey showed our market share in Scotland rising to 46%.
Even where we have a significant presence, we can grow if we deliver a high quality of service.
1 brand for service in England & Wales and Scotland according to an independent survey.
Contribution m 07 2,398 06 2,193 Our UK Corporate Banking business enjoyed another very successful year maintaining its consistent record of high single-figure income growth and further advancing its market share from a position of leadership.
An important reason for this sustained performance is our relationship banking model, which involves a long-term commitment to customers.
In 2007, we invested in several hundred more Relationship Managers, and co-located relationship and specialist product teams across the UK to provide joined-up local delivery for customers.
We also invested in simplified and easier-to-use documentation, and in new mobile technology which allows our people to spend more time with the companies we serve.
We began a new relationship with Wales leading brewer and pub Product innovation has been central to meeting customers operator SA Brain & Co Ltd. needs.
We greatly improved delivery channels with the launch of new Bankline, our advanced web-based electronic banking After more than 200 years with platform.
50,000 corporate and business customers enjoyed one of our major UK competitors, access to new Bankline and gave us strongly positive feedback one of Essexs longest established about it.
Lombard introduced a vehicle carbon offset scheme, law firms, Gepp & Sons, was while our services to businesses that trade internationally were persuaded to move their banking enhanced by Supplier Finance a new global supply chain relationship to UKCB.
finance product and Tradeflow an automated online trade finance service.
We maintained our rigorous focus on credit quality and risk management.
As a result, while the amount we lent increased the quality of the portfolio remained stable and impairment losses fell.
14 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Divisional review
