Exchange controls Incorporation and registration The company has been advised that there are currently no UK The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or under the Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 export of capital, including the availability of cash or cash March 1968 under the name National and Commercial Banking equivalents for use by the Group, or the remittance of Group Limited.
On 10 March 1982, it changed its name to its dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK resident present name and was registered under the Companies Acts holders of the companys securities.
1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited liability.
The company is registered under Company No.
There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit Code of ethics the right of non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to As discussed on page 95, the Group has adopted a code of vote, freely to vote the companys securities.
ethics that is applicable to all of the Groups employees, which will be provided to any person without charge, upon request, Memorandum and Articles of Association by contacting Group Secretariat at the telephone number listed The companys Memorandum of Association and Articles of on page 248.
Association as in effect at the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were last amended on 29 April 2004 and have been filed with the SEC.
A resolution amending the Articles of Association will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2008.
The proposed amendments are designed to update the Articles of Association primarily to take account of changes in company law introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
For a description of certain provisions of the companys Memorandum and Articles, see the Additional Information Memorandum and Articles of Association section of the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2004.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 247 Shareholder information
