Presentation of accounts The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the The accounts are prepared in accordance with International consolidated income statement from the date control passes Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International to the Group.
The results of subsidiaries are included up until Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations the Group ceases to control them through a sale or significant issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations change in circumstances.
Committee of the IASB together IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The EU has not adopted the complete All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses text of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are Measurement: it has relaxed some of the standards hedging prepared using uniform accounting policies.
The Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation and has adopted IAS 39 as issued by the IASB: the 3.
Revenue recognition Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance with Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The date of transition to IFRS for and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and the Group and the company The Royal Bank of Scotland interest expense on financial liabilities other than those at fair Group plc and the date of their opening IFRS balance sheets value through profit or loss are determined using the effective was 1 January 2004. interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial The Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of Disclosures for the accounting period beginning 1 January allocating the interest income or interest expense over the 2007.
This has had no effect on the results, cash flows or expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate financial position of the Group or the company.
However, there is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to are changes to the notes on the accounts and comparative the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the information is presented accordingly.
effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable, that are an integral part of the instruments yield, The Group is no longer required to include reconciliations of premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early shareholders equity and net income under IFRS and US GAAP redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a financial instrument are considered when estimating future the US.
The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or Scotland.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recorded basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, held-forloss together with dividends and interest receivable and payable.
trading financial assets and financial liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and percentage of the outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a investment property.
Recognised financial assets and financial specific lending arrangement will be entered into, such fees liabilities in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair are taken to profit or loss over the life of the facility otherwise value in respect of the risk that is hedged.
they are deferred and included in the effective interest rate on the advance.
The company accounts are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to 2.
Basis of consolidation the customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is statements of the company and entities including certain rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always determinable.
special purpose entities that continue to be controlled by the The application of this policy to significant fee types is outlined Group its subsidiaries.
Control exists where the Group has below.
the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: generally conferred by holding a majority of voting Payment services: this comprises income received for payment rights.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, services including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing liabilities and contingent liabilities are included in the House Automated Payments the UK electronic settlement consolidated accounts at their fair value.
Any excess of the system and BACS payments the automated clearing house cost the fair value of assets given, liabilities incurred or that processes direct debits and direct credits.
These are assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group plus any generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The income is directly attributable costs of an acquisition over the fair value earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for of the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
The payment services are usually debited to the customers interest of minority shareholders is stated at their share of the account, monthly or quarterly in arrears.
Accruals are raised fair value of the subsidiarys net assets.
for services provided but not charged at period end.
124 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Card related services: fees from credit card business include: estimated economic lives using methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits and is included in depreciation Commission received from retailers for processing credit and amortisation.
The estimated useful economic lives are as and debit card transactions: income is accrued to the follows: income statement as the service is performed.
Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods Computer software 3 to 5 years and services.
The Group also receives interchange fees from other card issuers for providing cash advances Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is through its branch and Automated Teller Machine networks.
Direct costs relating to the development These fees are accrued once the transaction has taken place.
of internal-use computer software are capitalised once technical feasibility and economic viability have been An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred established.
These costs include payroll, the costs of materials and taken to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. and services, and directly attributable overhead.
of costs ceases when the software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after development, accumulated costs Insurance brokerage: this is made up of fees and commissions are reviewed for impairment against the projected benefits that received from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the software is expected to generate.
Costs incurred prior to the sale of an insurance contract is earned at the inception of the establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability the policy as the insurance has been arranged and placed.
are expensed as incurred as are all training costs and general However, provision is made where commission is refundable in overhead.
The costs of licences to use computer software that the event of policy cancellation in line with estimated cancellations.
are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
Investment management fees: fees charged for managing investments are recognised as revenue as the services are Acquired goodwill being the excess of the cost of an provided.
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the securing an investment management contract are deferred and identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the charged as expense as the related revenue is recognised.
subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired is initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any Insurance premiums see accounting policy 10 below.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the 4.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits balance sheet caption Intangible assets and that on The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of associates within their carrying amounts.
The gain or loss on pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
the disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying value of any related goodwill.
For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method On implementation of IFRS, the Group did not restate business and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return combinations that occurred before January 2004.
Under on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and previous GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 October currency to the scheme liabilities.
Scheme assets are 1998 was capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme economic life.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an 1 October 1998 was deducted from equity.
The carrying asset surplus or liability deficit.
The current service cost and amount of goodwill in the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet any past service costs together with the expected return on 1 January 2004 was 13,131 million, its carrying value under scheme assets less the unwinding of the discount on the previous GAAP.
scheme liabilities is charged to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which 6.
Property, plant and equipment they occur outside profit or loss and presented in the Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less statement of recognised income and expense.
accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are major components having different useful lives, they are recognised in the income statement when payable.
Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property is classified as 5.
Intangible assets and goodwill property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at construction or development is complete, at which time it is cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss over the assets RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 125 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis 8.
Foreign currencies so as to write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in and equipment including assets owned and let on operating sterling which is the functional currency of the company.
leases except investment property see accounting policy 21 below over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciable Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Land is the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences Short leaseholds unexpired period arising on translation are reported in income from trading of the lease activities except for differences arising on cash flow hedges Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
NonComputer equipment up to 5 years monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are Other equipment 4 to 15 years stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined.
Under previous GAAP, the Groups freehold and long leasehold Translation differences arising on non-monetary items property occupied for its own use was recorded at valuation on measured at fair value are recognised in profit or loss except the basis of existing use value.
The Group elected to use this for differences arising on available-for-sale non-monetary valuation as at 31 December 2003 2,391 million as deemed financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included cost for its opening IFRS balance sheet 1 January 2004. in the available-for-sale reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are any indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign Group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset and the operations are translated into sterling at average exchange impairment loss if any.
Goodwill is tested for impairment rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange annually or more frequently if events or changes in rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are does not generate cash flows that are independent from those recognised directly in equity and included in profit or loss on of other assets or groups of assets, recoverable amount is its disposal.
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of 9.
Leases its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Value in use Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases if is the present value of future cash flows from the asset or they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects market ownership of the asset to the customer.
Other contracts to interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cash lease assets are classified as operating leases.
generating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or Finance lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at tangible asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment the amount of the net investment in the lease being the loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value carrying value of the asset reduced by the amount of the loss.
discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
Finance A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to give a excluding goodwill or property, plant and equipment is constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net recognised as it arises provided the increased carrying value investment.
Unguaranteed residual values are subject to does not exceed that which it would have been had no regular review to identify potential impairment.
If there has impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on been a reduction in the estimated unguaranteed residual value, goodwill are not reversed.
the income allocation is revised and any reduction in respect of amounts accrued is recognised immediately.
Rental income from operating leases is credited to the income statement on a receivable basis over the term of the lease.
Operating lease assets are included within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives see accounting policy 6 above.
126 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements 10.
Insurance excluding the value of future investment margins, to estimate General insurance future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, General insurance comprises short-duration contracts, discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a principally property and liability insurance contracts.
Changes in the value of this asset are included the nature of the products sold retail-based property and in profit or loss.
casualty, motor, home and personal health insurance contracts the insurance protection is provided on an even basis Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as throughout the term of the policy.
Claims on long-term insurance contracts reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year, Premiums from general insurance contracts are recognised in including claims handling costs.
Claims are recognised when the accounting period in which they begin.
Unearned the Group becomes aware of the claim.
premiums represent the proportion of the net premiums that relate to periods of insurance after the balance sheet date and Reinsurance are calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the estimated insurance risk.
Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated incidence of exposure under policies which are longer than gross of reinsurance and a separate reinsurance asset twelve months.
Provision is made where necessary for the recorded.
estimated amount of claims over and above unearned premiums including that in respect of future written business 11.
Taxation on discontinued lines under the run-off of delegated Provision is made for taxation at current enacted rates on underwriting authority arrangements.
The provision is designed taxable profits, arising in income or in equity, taking into to meet future claims and related expenses and is calculated account relief for overseas taxation where appropriate.
across related classes of business on the basis of a separate Deferred taxation is accounted for in full for all temporary carry forward of deferred acquisition expenses after making differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability allowance for investment income.
for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes, except in relation to overseas earnings where Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business remittance is controlled by the Group, and goodwill.
for all classes are expensed over the period during which the premiums are earned.
The principal acquisition costs so Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is deferred are commissions payable, costs associated with the probable that they will be recovered.
telesales and underwriting staff and prepaid claims handling costs in respect of delegated claims handling arrangements 12.
Financial assets for claims which are expected to occur after the balance sheet On initial recognition financial assets are classified into helddate.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the to-maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: heldaccounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or for the full cost of settling outstanding claims at the balance loans and receivables.
sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date, and claims handling Held-to-maturity investments a financial asset may be expenses.
The related reinsurance receivable is recognised at classified as a held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or the same time.
determinable payments, a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity Life assurance investments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at term assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, amortised cost using the effective interest method see pension and annuity contracts that are expected to remain in accounting policy 3 above less any impairment losses.
force for an extended period of time.
Long-term assurance contracts under which the Group does not accept significant Held-for-trading a financial asset is classified as held-forinsurance risk are classified as financial instruments.
trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term instruments that are managed together and for which there is assurance contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in in-force contracts and related assets, including reinsurance a qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial cash flows, are projected, using appropriate assumptions as to assets are recognised at fair value with transaction costs being future mortality, persistency and levels of expenses and recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on held-for-trading financial assets are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 127 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Designated as at fair value through profit or loss financial Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans assets may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other only if such designation a eliminates or significantly reduces regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
a measurement or recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both that the Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is Group manages and evaluates on a fair value basis: or c quoted in an active market is the current bid price times the relates to an instrument that contains an embedded derivative number of units of the instrument held.
Fair values for financial which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
assets not quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques including discounting future Financial assets that the Group designates on initial cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing recognised at fair value, with transaction costs being financial assets.
recognised in profit or loss and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial assets that are 13.
Impairment of financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss are The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale The principal category of financial assets designated as at fair or loans and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or value through profit or loss is policyholders assets portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss underpinning insurance and investment contracts issued by incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events the Group's life assurance businesses.
Fair value designation since initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
would arise if these assets were classified as available-for-sale.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost if there is objective Loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an of financial assets classified as loans and receivables or as active market are classified as loans and receivables except held-to-maturity investments has been incurred, the Group those that are classified as available-for-sale or as held-formeasures the amount of the loss as the difference between the trading, or designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method instrument at initial recognition.
see accounting policy 3 above less any impairment losses.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial Available-for-sale financial assets that are not classified as assets that are individually significant and individually or held-to-maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In through profit or loss: or loans and receivables are classified making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets as available-for-sale.
Financial assets can be designated as are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk available-for-sale on initial recognition.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk measured at fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose characteristics.
Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the fair value cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects of classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Impairment current conditions not affecting the period of historical losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating experience.
the amortised cost of currency monetary available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in profit or loss together with Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the interest calculated using the effective interest method see carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial accounting policy 3 above.
Other changes in the fair value of assets reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment available-for-sale financial assets are reported in a separate losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment component of shareholders equity until disposal, when the loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
after the impairment was recognised, the previously 128 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once All other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset using the effective interest method see accounting policy 3 or group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on above.
the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is impairment.
quoted in an active market is the current offer price times the number of units of the instrument held or issued.
Fair values Financial assets carried at fair value when a decline in the for financial liabilities not quoted in an active market are fair value of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale determined using appropriate valuation techniques including has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is methods that are consistent with accepted economic removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
The loss methodologies for pricing financial liabilities.
is measured as the difference between the amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Derecognition on available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed A financial asset is derecognised when it has been transferred through profit or loss, but those on available-for-sale debt and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that the Group either: a transfers the contractual rights to that is objectively related to a subsequent event.
receive the assets cash flows: or b retains the right to the assets cash flows but assumes a contractual obligation to pay 14.
Financial liabilities those cash flows to a third party.
After a transfer, the Group A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks and incurred principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
If substantially or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are all the risks and rewards have been retained, the asset remains managed together and for which there is evidence of shorton the balance sheet.
If substantially all the risks and rewards term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying hedge have been transferred, the asset is derecognised.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are recognised substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it loss.
Gains and has retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained control, losses are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Where the Group has retained control of the asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial extent of its continuing involvement.
recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with transaction costs being A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently measured at obligation is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are 16.
Sale and repurchase transactions recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are Financial liabilities may be designated as at fair value through retained by the Group continue to be shown on the balance profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or sheet and the sale proceeds recorded as a deposit.
Securities significantly reduces a measurement or recognition acquired in a reverse sale and repurchase transaction under inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, which the Group is not exposed to substantially all the risks financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and and rewards of ownership are not recognised on the balance evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument sheet and the consideration is recorded in Loans and that contains an embedded derivative which is not evidently advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as closely related to the host contract.
The principal categories of financial liabilities designated as at Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually fair value through profit or loss are a structured liabilities secured by cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
issued by the Group: designation significantly reduces the Borrowed securities are not recognised on the balance sheet measurement inconsistency between these liabilities and the or lent securities derecognised.
Cash collateral received or related derivatives carried at fair value: and b investment given is treated as a loan or deposit: collateral in the form of contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses: securities is not recognised.
However, where securities fair value designation significantly reduces the measurement borrowed are transferred to third parties, a liability for the inconsistency that would arise if these liabilities were obligation to return the securities to the stock lending measured at amortised cost.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 129 Financial statements Accounting policies continued 17.
Netting Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net documentation includes identification of the hedged item and amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the hedging instrument, details the risk that is being hedged the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to set off and the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at the recognised amounts: and it intends either to settle on a net inception and during the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability not highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash simultaneously.
The Group is party to a number of flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the arrangements, including master netting agreements, that give it documented risk management strategy, hedge accounting is the right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities but discontinued.
where it does not intend to settle the amounts net or simultaneously and therefore the assets and liabilities Fair value hedge in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the concerned are presented gross.
hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is 18.
Capital instruments recognised in profit or loss and adjusts the carrying amount of The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the as a financial asset, financial liability or an equity instrument hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or if in accordance with the substance of the contractual the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or arrangement.
An instrument is classified as a liability if it is exercised or if hedge designation is revoked.
If the hedged a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial item is one for which the effective interest rate method is used, asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities any cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over on potentially unfavourable terms.
An instrument is classified the life of the hedged item using a recalculated effective as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of interest rate.
the Group after the deduction of liabilities.
The components of a compound financial instrument issued by the Group are Cash flow hedge where a derivative financial instrument is classified and accounted for separately as financial assets, designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a financial liabilities or equity as appropriate.
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the 19.
Derivatives and hedging hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
When the subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial determined from quoted prices in active markets where asset or financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, reclassified from equity in the same periods in which the asset fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components or liability affects profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the stand-alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging instrument expires closely related to the economic characteristics of the host or is sold, terminated or exercised: if the forecast transaction is contract: unless the entire contract is carried at fair value no longer expected to occur: or if hedge designation is through profit or loss.
On the discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is derivative are recognised as they arise in profit or loss unless recognised in profit or loss when the hedged cash flow occurs the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
or, if the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a The Group enters into three types of hedge relationship: financial asset or financial liability, in the same periods during hedges of changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Where a liability or firm commitment fair value hedges : hedges of the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or liability or a cumulative unrealised gain or loss is recognised in profit or forecast transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the net loss immediately.
130 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation in the hedge Critical accounting policies and key sources of of a net investment in a foreign operation, the portion of estimation uncertainty foreign exchange differences arising on the hedging The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the instrument determined to be an effective hedge is recognised accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in profit the preparation of its financial statements.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives and IFRS require the directors, in preparing the Groups may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates 20.
Share-based payments that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an The Group grants options over shares in The Royal Bank of applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Scotland Group plc to its employees under various share Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, option schemes.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based requires management to develop and apply an accounting Payment to grants under these schemes after 7 November policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The expense for light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with these transactions is measured based on the fair value on the similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the date the options are granted.
The fair value is estimated using Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
valuation techniques which take into account the options The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups exercise price, its term, the risk-free interest rate and the accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the expected volatility of the market price of The Royal Bank of most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are Scotland Group plcs shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models into account when measuring fair value, but are reflected by that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its adjusting the number of options included in the measurement reported results.
of the transaction such that the amount recognised reflects the number that actually vest.
The fair value is expensed on a Loan impairment provisions straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans 21.
Investment property classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold cost.
A loan is impaired when there is objective evidence that properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital events since the loan was granted have affected expected appreciation or both.
It is not depreciated but is stated at fair cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the difference value based on valuations by independent registered valuers.
between the carrying value of the loan and the present value Fair value is based on current prices for similar properties in of estimated future cash flows at the loans original effective the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss arising from interest rate.
a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental income from investment property is recognised on a straightAt 31 December 2007, gross loans and advances to line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted customers totalled 835,688 million 2006 470,826 million are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
and customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 6,438 million 2006 3,933 million.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand There are two components to the Groups loan impairment deposits with banks together with short-term highly liquid provisions: individual and collective.
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
Individual component all impaired loans that exceed specific thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
Shares in Group entities Individually assessed loans principally comprise the Groups The companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at portfolio of commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses are recognised as the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted value of managements best estimate of future cash repayments and proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 131 Financial statements Accounting policies continued account the customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: assumptions are made as to price inflation, dividend growth, the level and quality of its earnings: the amount and sources of pension increases, earnings growth and employees.
There is a cash flows: the industry in which the counterparty operates: range of assumptions that could be adopted in valuing the and the realisable value of any security held.
Different assumptions could significantly quantum and timing of future recoveries involves significant alter the amount of the surplus or deficit recognised in the judgement.
The size of receipts will depend on the future balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of statement.
The assumptions adopted for the Groups pension which will be affected by future economic conditions: schemes are set out in Note 3 on the accounts.
A pension additionally, collateral may not be readily marketable.
asset of 836 million and a liability of 496 million were The actual amount of future cash flows and the date they are recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2007 received may differ from these estimates and consequently 2006 liability 1,992 million.
actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
Fair value financial instruments Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or Collective component this is made up of two elements: loan designated as at fair value through profit or loss and financial impairment provisions for impaired loans that are below assets classified as available-for-sale are recognised in the individual assessment thresholds collective impaired loan financial statements at fair value.
All derivatives are measured provisions and for loan losses that have been incurred but at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair have not been separately identified at the balance sheet date value of financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or latent loss provisions.
These are established on a portfolio designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included basis using a present value methodology taking into account in the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit available-for-sale financial assets are recognised directly in scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most equity unless an impairment loss is recognised.
significant factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and the related average life.
These Financial instruments measured at fair value include: portfolios include credit card receivables and other personal advances including mortgages.
The future credit quality of Loans and advances held-for-trading and designated as at these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause fair value though profit or loss principally comprise reverse actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan repurchase agreements reverse repos and syndicated loans.
These uncertainties include the In repurchase agreements one party agrees to sell securities economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect to another and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the on customer spending, the unemployment level, payment securities at a future date for a specified price.
The repurchase behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
price is fixed at the outset, usually being the original sale price plus an amount representing interest for the period from the Pensions sale to the repurchase.
Syndicated loans measured at fair The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension value are amounts retained, from syndications where the schemes as described in Note 3 on the accounts.
The assets Group was lead manager or underwriter, in excess of the of the schemes are measured at their fair value at the balance Groups intended long term participation.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of projected Treasury and other eligible bills and debt securities held-forearnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the trading, designated as at fair value though profit or loss and best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the available-for-sale treasury bills are UK and foreign scheme liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the government treasury bills and other bank bills eligible for interest rate applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the refinancing with central banks.
Debt securities include those same currency and term as the liabilities.
Any recognisable issued by governments, municipal bodies, mortgage agencies surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is and financial institutions as well as corporate bonds, recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or debentures and residual interests in securitisations.
In determining the value of scheme liabilities, Equity securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though profit or loss and available-for-sale comprise equity shares of companies or corporations both listed and unlisted.
132 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Deposits by banks and customer accounts held-for-trading Futures are exchange-traded forward contracts to buy or sell and designated as at fair value though profit or loss deposits standardised amounts of underlying physical or financial measured at fair value principally include repurchase commodities.
The Group buys and sells currency, interest rate agreements repos discussed above and investment contracts and equity futures.
Options include exchange-traded options issued by the Groups life assurance businesses.
on currencies, interest rates and equities and equity indices and OTC currency and equity options, interest rate caps and Debt securities in issue held-for-trading and designated as at floors and swaptions.
They are contracts that give the holder fair value though profit or loss measured at fair value and the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a specified principally comprise medium term notes.
amount of the underlying physical or financial commodity at an agreed price on an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Short positions held-for-trading arise in dealing and market making activities where treasury and other eligible bills, debt Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be securities and equity shares are sold which the Group does exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, not currently possess.
willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical Derivatives these include swaps, forwards, futures and financial assets or financial liabilities where these are available.
They may be traded on an organised exchange Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset or exchange-traded or over-the-counter OTC.
Holders of financial liability in an active market is the current bid or offer exchange traded derivatives are generally required to provide price times the number of units of the instrument held.
Where margin daily in the form of cash or other collateral.
a trading portfolio contains both financial assets and financial liabilities which are derivatives of the same underlying Swaps include currency swaps, interest rate swaps, credit instrument, fair value is determined by valuing the gross long default swaps, total return swaps and equity and equity index and short positions at current mid market prices, with an swaps.
A swap is an agreement to exchange cash flows in the adjustment at portfolio level to the net open long or short future in accordance with a pre-arranged formula.
In currency position to amend the valuation to bid or offer as appropriate.
swap transactions, interest payment obligations are exchanged Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair on assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies: value is established using a valuation technique.
These the exchange of principal may be notional or actual.
Interest valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent rate swap contracts generally involve exchange of fixed and of which depends on the instruments complexity and the floating interest payment obligations without the exchange of availability of market-based data.
Forwards include forward foreign exchange contracts and forward rate agreements.
A forward contract is a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, on an agreed future date.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are contracts for the delayed delivery of currency on a specified future date.
Forward rate agreements are contracts under which two counterparties agree on the interest to be paid on a notional deposit of a specified term starting on a specific future date: there is no exchange of principal.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 133 Financial statements Accounting policies continued The table below shows financial instruments carried at fair value at 31 December 2007, by valuation method.
Valuation techniques Valuation incorporating techniques information Quoted prices based on other than in active observable observable markets 1 market data 2 market data 3 Total Financial instruments measured at fair value bn bn bn bn Assets Fair value though profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 71.5 0.1 71.6 Loans and advances to customers 94.4 13.1 107.5 Treasury and other eligible bills and debt securities 83.1 101.7 11.6 196.4 Equity shares 36.5 8.1 0.8 45.4 Derivatives 1.9 330.3 5.2 337.4 Available-for-sale Treasury and other eligible bills and debt securities 32.1 62.4 1.1 95.6 Equity shares 5.8 1.0 0.8 7.6 159.4 669.4 32.7 861.5 Liabilities Deposits by banks and customer accounts 131.9 1.5 133.4 Debt securities in issue 42.1 9.2 51.3 Short positions 63.6 9.9 73.5 Derivatives 2.1 325.6 4.4 332.1 Other financial liabilities 4 0.9 0.2 1.1 65.7 510.4 15.3 591.4 Notes: 1 Financial assets and financial liabilities valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
This category includes listed equity shares, exchange-traded derivatives, UK, US and certain other government securities, and US agency securities in active markets.
2 Financial assets and financial liabilities valued using techniques based on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using: a quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or identical assets or liabilities in markets which are considered to be less than active: or b valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
Financial assets and financial liabilities in this category include repos, reverse repos, structured and US commercial mortgage loans, structured deposits, investment contracts issued by the Groups life assurance businesses, corporate and municipal debt securities, most debt securities in issue, certain unlisted equity shares for which recent market data are available, the majority of the Groups OTC derivatives and certain instruments listed in 1 above where markets are considered to be less than active.
3 Valuation techniques incorporating information other than observable market data are used for instruments where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation cannot be based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used: if not, the input is estimated.
Financial assets and liabilities in this category include certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, unlisted equity shares, certain residual interests in securitisations, super senior tranches of high grade and mezzanine collateralised debt obligations CDOs and other sub-prime trading inventory, less liquid debt securities, certain structured debt securities in issue and OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon unobservable inputs such as certain long dated and exotic contracts.
No gain or loss is recognised on the initial recognition of a financial instrument valued using a technique incorporating significant unobservable data.
4 Other financial liabilities comprise subordinated liabilities and provisions relating to undrawn syndicated loan facilities.
134 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements The Group uses a number of methodologies to determine the Price volatilities and correlations volatility is a measure of fair value of financial instruments for which observable prices the tendency of a price to change with time.
Correlation in active markets for identical instruments are not available.
measures the degree to which two or more prices or other These techniques include: relative value methodologies based variables are observed to move together.
If they move in on observable prices for similar instruments: present value the same direction there is positive correlation: if they approaches where future cash flows from the asset or liability move in opposite directions there is negative correlation.
are estimated and then discounted using a risk-adjusted Volatility is a key input in valuing options and the value of interest rate: and Black-Scholes, Monte-Carlo and binomial certain products such as derivatives with more than one option pricing models.
The principal inputs to these valuation underlying variable that is .
Volatility techniques are listed below.
Values between and beyond and correlation values are obtained from broker quotations, available data points are obtained by interpolation and pricing services or derived from option prices.
Prepayment rates the fair value of a financial instrument Bond prices quoted prices are generally available for that can be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from government bonds, certain corporate securities and some that of an instrument that cannot be prepaid.
prepayable instruments that are not quoted in active markets the Group incorporates the value of the Credit spreads where available, these are derived from prepayment option.
prices of credit default swaps or other credit based instruments, such as debt securities.
For others, credit Counterparty credit spreads adjustment is made to spreads are obtained from pricing services.
market prices or parameters when the creditworthiness of the counterparty differs from that of the assumed Interest rates these are principally benchmark interest counterparty in the market price or parameter, for rates such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate LIBOR example many OTC derivative price quotations are for and quoted interest rates in the swap, bond and futures transactions with a counterparty with an AA credit rating.
The Group refines and modifies its valuation techniques as Foreign currency exchange rates there are observable markets and products develop and the pricing for individual markets both spot and forward and in futures in the worlds products becomes more transparent.
While the Group believes its valuation techniques are Equity and equity index prices quoted prices are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the generally readily available for equity shares listed on the use of different methodologies or assumptions could result in worlds major stock exchanges and for major indices on different estimates of fair value at the balance sheet date.
Portfolios whose fair values are based on valuation techniques incorporating information other than observable market data Commodity prices many commodities are actively traded and related sensitivity analysis on portfolios at 31 December in spot, forward and futures on exchanges in London, New 2007 are summarised in the table below.
York and other commercial centres.
Assets Liabilities Debt Other Loans and securities financial advances Securities Derivatives Total Deposits in issue Derivatives liabilities Total Portfolio bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Syndicated loans 4.6 4.6 Commercial mortgages 2.2 2.2 Super senior tranches of asset-backed CDOs 3.8 3.8 Other debt securities 8.8 8.8 Exotic derivatives 5.2 5.2 4.4 4.4 Other portfolios 6.4 1.7 8.1 1.5 9.2 0.2 10.9 13.2 14.3 5.2 32.7 1.5 9.2 4.4 0.2 15.3 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 135 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Syndicated loans syndicated loans are valued by considering loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, prepayment recent syndication prices in the same or similar assets, prices in rates, cumulative loan loss information, yields, investor the secondary loan market, and with reference to relevant indices demand, market volatility since the last securitisation, and for credit products and credit default swaps such as the LevX, credit enhancement.
Assumptions relating to the expected refinancing period are based on market experience and market Where observable market prices for a particular loan are not convention.
Adjustments to observed prices are made for available, the fair value will typically be determined with differences between instruments, such as counterparty reference to observable market transactions in other loans or creditworthiness, term, and quality of any collateral.
credit related products including debt securities and credit derivatives.
Assumptions are made about the relationship The fair value of drawn syndicated loans valued using between the loan and the available benchmark data.
Using techniques other than by considering recent syndication prices reasonably possible alternative assumptions for credit spreads in the same or similar assets and prices in the secondary loan taking into account all other applicable factors would reduce market was 4,624 million.
Using reasonably possible the fair value by up to 52 million or increase the fair value by alternative assumptions about refinancing periods which were up to 49 million.
stressed by one year and the value attributed to potentially favourable flexible loan conditions which are attributed no Super senior tranches of asset-backed CDOs the Group is a value in reported figures would reduce the fair value by up to participant in the US asset-backed securities market: buying 46 million or increase the fair value by up to 83 million.
residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, including securities backed by US sub-prime mortgages, and Commercial mortgages senior and mezzanine commercial repackaging them into collateralised debt obligations CDOs mortgages are loans secured on commercial land and for sale to investors.
The Group retains exposure to some of buildings that were originated or acquired by the Group for the super senior tranches of these CDOs.
In the second half of securitisation.
Senior commercial mortgages carry a variable 2007, rising mortgage delinquencies and expectations of interest rate and mezzanine or more junior commercial declining house prices in the US led to a deterioration of the mortgages may carry a fixed or variable interest rate.
Factors estimated fair value of these exposures.
affecting the value of these loans may include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property type and geographic An analysis of the Groups super senior tranche exposures to location, loan interest rate, these CDOs is shown below: High grade Mezzanine Exposure m 6,420 3,040 Exposure after hedges m 3,073 1,790 Weighted average attachment point 1 29% 46% % of underlying RMBS sub-prime assets 69% 91% Of which originated in: 2005 and earlier 24% 23% 2006 28% 69% 2007 48% 8% Collateral by rating: investment grade 98% 31% non-investment grade 2% 69% Net exposure m 2,581 1,253 Effective attachment point post write down 40% 62% Note: 1 Attachment point is the minimum level of losses in a portfolio to which a tranche is exposed, as a percentage of the total notional size of the portfolio.
For example, a 5-10% tranche has an attachment point of 5% and a detachment point of 10%.
When the accumulated loss of the reference pool is no more than 5% of the total initial notional of the pool, the tranche will not be affected.
However, when the loss has exceeded 5%, any further loss will be deducted from the tranches notional principal until the detachment point, 10%, is reached.
136 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements The Groups valuation of the super senior asset-backed CDO Derivatives derivatives are priced using quoted prices for the exposures takes into consideration outputs from a proprietary same or similar instruments where these are available.
model, market data and appropriate valuation adjustments.
However, the majority of derivatives are valued using pricing There is significant subjectivity in the valuation with very little models.
Inputs for these models are usually observed directly market activity to provide support for fair value levels at which in the market, or derived from observed prices.
However, it is willing buyers and sellers would transact.
not always possible to observe or corroborate all model inputs.
The Groups proprietary model predicts the expected cash Unobservable inputs used are based on estimates taking into flows of the underlying mortgages using assumptions about account a range of available information including historic future macroeconomic conditions including house price analysis, historic traded levels, market practice, comparison to appreciation and depreciation and defaults delinquencies on other relevant benchmark observable data and consensus these underlying mortgages derived from publicly available pricing data.
Using reasonably possible alternative data.
The resulting cash flows are discounted using a risk assumptions, principally correlations, including the relative adjusted rate.
impact of unobservable inputs as compared to those which may be observed, would reduce the fair value by up to 80 Alternative valuations have been produced using reasonably million or increase the fair value by up to 80 million.
possible alternative assumptions about macroeconomic conditions including house price appreciation and depreciation, Other portfolios other than the portfolios discussed above, and the effect of regional variations.
In addition, the discount there are other financial instruments which are held at fair rate applied to the model output has been stressed.
The output value determined from data which are not market observable, from using these alternative assumptions has been compared or incorporating material adjustments to market observed data.
with inferred pricing from other published data.
Using reasonably possible alternative assumptions appropriate to the financial asset or liability in question, such as credit The Group believes that reasonably possible alternative spreads, derivative inputs and equity correlations, would assumptions could reduce or increase predicted cumulative reduce the fair value by up to 119 million or increase the fair losses from the model by up to 20%.
Using these alternative value by up to 117 million.
assumptions would reduce the fair value by up to 385 million or increase the fair value by up to 235 million.
Other debt securities where observable market prices for a particular debt security are not available, the fair value will typically be determined with reference to observable market transactions in other credit related products including debt securities and credit derivatives.
Assumptions are made about the relationship between the individual debt security and the available benchmark data.
Using differing assumptions about this relationship would result in different fair values for these assets.
Using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for credit spread taking into account the underlying currency, tenor and rating would reduce the fair value by up to 88 million or increase the fair value by up to 109 million.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 137 Financial statements Accounting policies continued General insurance claims Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling over the fair value of its net assets.
The determination of the outstanding claims arising from its general insurance business at fair value of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been requires the exercise of management judgement: for example incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling those financial assets and liabilities for which there are no expenses.
General insurance claims provisions amounted to quoted prices, and those non-financial assets where valuations 5,466 million at 31 December 2007 2006 5,247 million.
reflect estimates of market conditions such as property.
Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill Provisions are determined by management based on arising and to the post-acquisition performance of the experience of claims settled and on statistical models which acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for require certain assumptions to be made regarding the impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific factors circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
such as adverse weather conditions.
In order to calculate the total provision required, the historical development of claims is For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, within business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cashacceptable probability parameters, the value of outstanding generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected claims at the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing of outstanding claims are other assumptions such as the involves the comparison of the carrying value of a cashinflationary factor used for bodily injury claims which is based on generating unit or group of cash generating units with its historical trends and, therefore, allows for some increase due to recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of changes in common law and statute.
Costs for both direct and the units fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the indirect claims handling expenses are also included.
Outward present value of expected future cash flows from the cashreinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same generating unit or group of cash-generating units.
Fair value is accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
The the amount obtainable for the sale of the cash-generating unit in outstanding claims provision is based on information available to an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing management and the eventual outcome may vary from the parties.
Actual claims experience may differ from the historical pattern on which the estimate is based and the Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the normal requirements of management Goodwill reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of the business: estimation of the fair value of cash-generating businesses, as discussed in accounting policy 5.
The carrying units: and the valuation of the separable assets of each value of goodwill as at 31 December 2007 was 42,369 million business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
138 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Accounting developments The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on International Financial Reporting Standards a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee their Interaction in July 2007.
The net pension asset that may IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury be recognised by a sponsoring entity is limited to the amount Share Transactions in November 2006.
Entities which buy their to which it has an unconditional right of refund or can be own shares, or whose shareholders buy shares in the reporting recovered through the settlement of plan liabilities.
Entities entity, in order to provide incentives to employees must legally bound to minimum funding requirements are required to account for those incentives on an equity-settled basis.
take account of those obligations when recognising the net This principle applies also to the accounting by subsidiaries.
asset or liability for an employee benefit scheme.
The The interpretation is effective for annual accounting periods interpretation is effective for accounting periods beginning on beginning on or after 1 March 2007 and is not expected to or after 1 January 2008 and is not expected to have a material have a material effect on the Group or company.
effect on the Group or company.
The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 12 Service Concession The IASB issued a revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Arrangements in November 2006.
Entities providing Statements in September 2007 effective for accounting infrastructure and services to governments under concession periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments arrangements must account for each component of the to the presentation requirements for financial statements are arrangement separately.
Infrastructure provided under these not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
arrangements may be recognised as either a financial asset or an intangible asset.
The interpretation is effective for The IASB published a revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 and and related revisions to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate is not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
Financial Statements following the completion in January 2008 of its project on the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries.
The IASB issued IFRS 8 Operating Segments in November The standards improve convergence with US GAAP and 2006.
This will replace IAS 14 Segment Reporting for provide new guidance on accounting for changes in interests accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The cost of an acquisition will comprise only 8 requires entities to report segment information as reported to consideration paid to vendors for equity: other costs will be management and reconcile it to the financial statements and is expensed immediately.
Groups will only account for goodwill on not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
acquisition of a subsidiary: subsequent changes in interest will be recognised in equity and only on a loss of control will there The IASB issued a revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs in March be a profit or loss on disposal to be recognised in income.
Entities are required to capitalise borrowing costs The changes are effective for accounting periods beginning on attributable to the development or construction of intangible or after 1 July 2009 but both standards may be adopted assets or property plant or equipment.
The standard is together for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 2007.
These changes will affect the Group's accounting for January 2009 and is not expected to have a material effect on the future acquisitions and disposals Group or company.
The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty The IASB published revisions to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Programmes in June 2007.
Entities that provide customers Presentation and consequential revisions to other standards in with benefits ancillary to a sale of goods or services should February 2008 to improve the accounting for and disclosure of apportion the sales proceeds to those benefits on the basis of puttable financial instruments.
The revisions are effective for relative fair values.
The interpretation is effective for accounting accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 but periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 and is not expected together they may be adopted earlier.
They are not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
to have a material affect on the Group or the company.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 139 Financial statements
