Notes on the accounts continued 33 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Groups expectation of future losses.
More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years 2007 2006 Group m m m m m m Contingent liabilities: Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 27,943 5,626 2,226 10,646 46,441 10,725 Other contingent liabilities 7,954 2,073 1,456 3,996 15,479 9,121 35,897 7,699 3,682 14,642 61,920 19,846 Commitments: Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend less than one year 184,791 184,791 140,742 one year and over 16,456 38,966 58,405 37,070 150,897 101,913 Other commitments 2,001 324 165 1 2,491 2,402 203,248 39,290 58,570 37,071 338,179 245,057 Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have Commitments been entered into on behalf of customers and for which there Commitments to lend under a loan commitment the Group are corresponding obligations from customers, are not agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future.
included in assets and liabilities.
The Groups maximum Loan commitments, which are usually for a specified term may exposure to credit loss, in the event of non-performance by the be unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all other party and where all counterclaims, collateral or security conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived.
proves valueless, is represented by the contractual nominal Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and amount of these instruments included in the table.
These credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits commitments and contingent obligations are subject to the and unutilised overdraft facilities.
Groups normal credit approval processes.
Other commitments these include documentary credits, Contingent liabilities which are commercial letters of credit providing for payment Guarantees the Group gives guarantees on behalf of by the Group to a named beneficiary against presentation of customers.
A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable specified documents, forward asset purchases, forward undertaking that the Group will meet a customers obligations deposits placed and undrawn note issuance and revolving to third parties if the customer fails to do so.
The maximum underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade related amount that the Group could be required to pay under a transactions.
guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
200 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Regulatory enquiries and investigations Litigation In the normal course of business the Group and its subsidiaries Proceedings, including consolidated class actions on behalf of co-operate with regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions former Enron securities holders, have been brought in the in their enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible United States against a large number of defendants, including breaches of regulations.
the Group, following the collapse of Enron.
The claims against the Group could be significant: the class plaintiffs position is As previously disclosed by ABN AMRO, the United States that each defendant is responsible for an entire aggregate Department of Justice has been conducting a criminal damage amount less settlements they have not quantified investigation into ABN AMROs dollar clearing activities, Office claimed damages against the Group in particular.
The Group of Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual Bank Secrecy Act compliance matters.
ABN AMRO has defences to these claims and will continue to defend them cooperated and continues to cooperate fully with the vigorously.
Recent Supreme Court and Fifth Circuit decisions investigation.
Prior to the acquisition by the Group, ABN AMRO provide further support for the Groups position.
The Group is had reached an agreement in principle with the Department of unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that might arise or Justice that would resolve all presently known aspects of the its effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, its operating ongoing investigation by way of a Deferred Prosecution results or cash flows in any particular period.
Agreement in return for a settlement payment by ABN AMRO of US$500 million which amount was accrued by ABN AMRO On 27 July 2007, following discussions between the Office of in its interim financial statements for the six months ended 30 Fair Trading OFT, the Financial Ombudsman Service, the June 2007.
Negotiations are continuing to enable a written Financial Services Authority and all the major UK banks agreement to be concluded.
including the Group in the first half of 2007, the OFT issued proceedings in a test case against the banks including the Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have received requests for Group to determine the legal status and enforceability of information from various US governmental agencies and selfcertain charges relating to unauthorised overdrafts.
The regulatory organisations including in connection with sub-prime hearing of the test case commenced on 17 January 2008.
The mortgages and securitisations, collateralised debt obligations Group maintains that its charges are fair and enforceable and and synthetic products related to sub-prime mortgages.
The is defending its position vigorously.
It cannot, however, at this Group and its subsidiaries are cooperating with these various stage predict with any certainty the outcome of the test case requests for information and investigations.
and is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that may arise or its effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, Trustee and other fiduciary activities operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold or place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, Members of the Group are engaged in other litigation in the companies, pension schemes and others.
The assets and their United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, income are not included in the Groups financial statements.
including the United States, involving claims by and against The Group earned fee income of 695 million 2006 472 them arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has million: 2005 366 million from these activities.
reviewed these other actual, threatened and known potential claims and proceedings and, after consulting with its legal advisers, does not expect that the outcome of these other claims and proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
Additional contingent liabilities arise in the normal course of the Groups business.
It is not anticipated that any material loss will arise from these transactions.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 201 Financial statements
