Notes on the accounts continued 41 Transactions with directors, officers and others b For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key a At 31 December 2007, the amounts outstanding in relation management comprise directors of the company and to transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into members of the Group Executive Management Committee.
by authorised institutions in the Group, as defined in UK The captions in the Groups primary financial statements legislation, were 527,021 in respect of loans to 15 include the following amounts attributable, in aggregate, to persons who were directors of the company or persons key management: connected with them at any time during the financial period.
2007 2006 000 000 Loans and advances to customers 2,023 2,188 Customer accounts 13,309 18,575 Key management have banking relationships with Group entities which are entered into in the normal course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with other persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
These transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Key management had no reportable transactions or balances with the company except for dividends.
42 Related parties c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances a Group companies provide development and other types of between Group entities that have been eliminated on capital support to businesses in their roles as providers of consolidation are not reported.
These investments are made in the normal course of business and on arms-length terms.
In some instances, d The captions in the primary financial statements of the the investment may extend to ownership or control over parent company include amounts attributable to 20% or more of the voting rights of the investee company.
These amounts have been disclosed in However, these investments are not considered to give rise aggregate in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under IAS 24. b The Group recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The amounts involved are not material to the Group.
43 Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events between the year end and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure in the accounts.
212 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements
