Notes on the accounts continued 30 Securitisations and other asset transfers partnerships and companies and fulfil many different In the normal course of business, the Group arranges functions.
As well as being a key element of securitisations, securitisations to facilitate client transactions and undertakes SPEs are also used in fund management activities to segregate securitisations to sell financial assets or to fund specific custodial duties from the fund management advice provided portfolios of assets.
The Group also acts as an underwriter and by the Group.
depositor in securitisation transactions involving both client and proprietary transactions.
In a securitisation, assets, or interests Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, in a pool of assets, are transferred generally to a special result in continued recognition of the securitised assets: purpose entity SPE which then issues liabilities to third continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the party investors.
Groups continuing involvement in those assets: or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as SPEs are vehicles set up for a specific, limited purpose, usually assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no retained in the transfer see Accounting policy on page 129. employees.
They take a variety of legal forms trusts, The Group has securitisations in each of these categories.
Continued recognition The table below sets out the asset categories together with the carrying amounts of the assets and associated liabilities for those securitisations and other asset transfers where substantially all the risks and rewards of the assets have been retained by the Group.
2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Asset type m m m m Residential mortgages 23,652 23,436 15,698 15,375 Credit card receivables 2,948 2,664 2,891 2,585 Other loans 1,703 1,149 1,931 1,346 Commercial paper conduits 32,613 31,193 8,360 8,284 Finance lease receivables 1,038 823 1,211 953 Residential mortgages securitisations the Group has Other securitisations other loans originated by the Group securitised portfolios of residential mortgages.
Mortgages have been transferred to SPEs funded through the issue of have been transferred to SPEs, held ultimately by charitable notes.
Any proceeds from the loans in excess of the amounts trusts, funded principally through the issue of floating rate required to service and repay the notes are payable to the notes.
The Group has entered into arms length fixed floating Group after deduction of expenses.
The SPEs are consolidated interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps with the and the loans remain on the Groups balance sheet.
securitisation SPEs and provides mortgage management and agency services to the SPEs.
On repayment of the financing, Commercial paper conduits the Group sponsors commercial any further amounts generated by the mortgages will be paid paper conduits.
Customer assets are transferred into SPEs to the Group.
The SPEs are consolidated and the mortgages which issue notes in the commercial paper market.
The Group remain on the Groups balance sheet.
supplies certain services and contingent liquidity support to these SPEs on an arms length basis as well as programme Credit card securitisations credit card receivables in the UK credit enhancement.
Notes have been issued by an SPE.
The note holders have a proportionate interest in a pool of credit Finance lease receivables certain finance lease receivables card receivables that have been equitably assigned by the leveraged leases in the US involve the Group as lessor Group to a receivables trust.
The Group continues to be obtaining non-recourse funding from third parties.
This exposed to the risks and rewards of the transferred financing is secured on the underlying leases and the provider receivables through its right to excess spread after chargeof the finance has no recourse whatsoever to the other assets offs.
The SPE is consolidated and the credit card receivables of the Group.
The transactions are recorded gross of thirdremain on the Groups balance sheet.
184 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements
