Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 share capital of that entity, the interest of Presentation of the financial 1.
Summary of accounting policies minority shareholders is stated at the statements minoritys proportion of the fair values Financial information for the year ended a Basis of preparation of the assets and liabilities recognised.
31 December 2007 is presented in The consolidated financial information accordance with IAS 1 Presentation contained within these financial statements The accounts of subsidiary undertakings of Financial Statements.
has been prepared in accordance with and associates are coterminous with those International Financial Reporting Standards of the Company apart from those of certain IAS 1 allows an entity to present some of IFRS, which comprise standards and undertakings which have accounting its assets and liabilities using a current noninterpretations approved by either the reference dates other than 31 December current classification and others in order of International Accounting Standards Board for commercial reasons.
Management liquidity when this provides information that or the International Financial Reporting accounts made up to 31 December are is reliable and more relevant.
Interpretations Committee or their used for such undertakings.
The Group has adopted a mixed basis predecessors, as adopted by the The results of subsidiary undertakings and of presentation within its consolidated European Union, and with those parts associates acquired or sold are included balance sheet which shows the assets of the Companies Act 1985 applicable from or to the date control changes.
and liabilities of the Groups life company to companies reporting under IFRS.
business, Schroder Pension Management Employee share ownership trusts have been At the balance sheet date, the Group had Limited, in order of liquidity and the established for the purposes of satisfying adopted all Standards and Interpretations remainder of the Groups assets and certain share-based awards.
These trusts that were either issued, or which had liabilities using a current non-current are fully consolidated within the accounts.
become effective, during the year with the classification.
exception of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, The Group has seed capital investments in This presentation provides more relevant a Standard that was in issue but not yet a number of funds where it is in a position information in that, if the assets and effective at the balance sheet date.
Apart to be able to control those funds.
These liabilities of the Groups life company from the Standards listed below, which funds are consolidated unless they meet business, Schroder Pension Management required the Group to amend its disclosures the criteria set out in policy o below to be Limited, were to be included within existing within the notes to the accounts, none of designated as being held for sale, in which captions on the Groups balance sheet, the the Standards and Interpretations adopted case they are classified and accounted for effect would be to gross up a number of had any impact on the Groups financial in accordance with that policy.
individual line items to a material extent.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, adopting a mixed basis of presentation, the IAS 1 Amended Presentation of income and expense are eliminated Group is able to provide a more transparent Financial Statements on consolidation.
presentation that shows the life company IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures asset and the related unit-linked liability c Business combinations separate and distinct from the remainder of the Groups balance sheet items.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted The consolidated financial information presented within these financial statements for using the purchase method.
The cost In addition, the presentation of the has been prepared on the historical cost of the acquisition is measured at the consolidated balance sheet has been basis, except for the measurement at fair aggregate of the fair values, at the date of amended to show Loans and advances value of derivative financial instruments exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred to customers and Deposits by customers and financial assets and liabilities that or assumed, and equity instruments issued and banks as separate line items.
are available-for-sale or held at fair value by the Group in exchange for control of the Accordingly, separate accounting policies through profit or loss and the measurement acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable are presented for these items see notes of long-term employee benefits at present to the business combination.
In previous years, the value of the obligation less fair value of any identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Group has included Loans and advances assets held to settle the obligation.
The liabilities that meet the conditions for to customers within Trade and other carrying value of recognised assets and recognition under IFRS 3 Business receivables and both Deposits by banks liabilities that are hedged is adjusted to Combinations are recognised at their fair and Customer accounts, which together record changes in the fair values attributable values at the acquisition date, except for make up Deposits by customers and to the risks that are being hedged.
This non-current assets or disposal groups that banks, within Trade and other payables.
valuation is in accordance with IAS 39 are classified as held for sale in accordance This change in presentation has been Financial Instruments: Recognition and with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for made to more readily disclose the extent of Measurement.
Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value Private Banking assets and liabilities within less costs to sell.
the Groups balance sheet and thereby b Basis of consolidation provide a more transparent and relevant The consolidated financial information d Goodwill presentation of the data.
Comparative contained within these financial statements Goodwill arising on consolidation represents amounts have been restated where incorporates financial statements of the the excess of the cost of acquisition over appropriate.
Company and entities controlled by the the Groups interest in the fair value of Company its subsidiaries prepared to the identifiable assets and liabilities of a 31 December each year.
Control is subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled achieved where the Company has the entity at the date of acquisition.
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain Goodwill arising on the acquisition of benefits from its activities.
Where the Group subsidiaries is recognised as an asset and controls an entity, but does not own all the reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Financial accounts 50 51 Any impairment is recognised immediately values exceed the estimated recoverable an associate or joint venture of the Group, in the income statement and is not amount, the assets are written down to their profits and losses are eliminated to the subsequently reversed.
The recoverable extent of the Groups interest in that amount is the greater of fair value less costs associate or joint venture.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of to sell and value in use.
Where intangible Where the Group has investments in funds associates or jointly controlled entities is software assets are not yet available for over which it is able to exert significant included in the amount of the investments.
use, an assessment of whether the carrying influence but not control, the Group has Gains and losses on the disposal of an values exceed the estimated recoverable applied the scope exclusion within IAS 28 entity include the carrying amount of the amount is made irrespective of whether Investments in Associates for mutual funds, goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill there is any indication of impairment.
unit trusts and similar entities and has arising on acquisitions before the date of accounted for such holdings at fair value transition to IFRS has been retained at the g Property, plant and equipment through the income statement.
previous UK GAAP amounts subject to The Groups assets include leasehold being tested for impairment at that date and improvements, office equipment, computers i Financial assets annually thereafter.
Goodwill written off to and cars.
Depreciation is provided on the Items included within this caption on equity prior to 1998 has not been reinstated depreciable amount over their useful lives the face of the balance sheet principally and is not included in determining any on a straight-line basis at rates varying comprise investments in debt securities subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
and equities and derivative instruments.
The depreciable amount is the excludes financial assets that are recorded e Intangible assets fund gross carrying amount, less the estimated under the following headings: management contracts residual value at the end of its economic The costs of acquiring intangible assets life.
Depreciation rates and methods as Associates and joint ventures: such as fund management contracts well as the residual values underlying the Loans and advances to customers: as part of a business combination are calculation of depreciation of items of Trade and other receivables: capitalised where it is probable that future property, plant and equipment are kept Cash and cash equivalents: and economic benefits that are attributable to under review to take account of any change Non-current assets held for sale.
the assets will flow to the Group and the in circumstances.
Separate accounting policies are presented cost of the assets can be measured reliably.
The carrying values of these assets are in respect of these excluded items.
The fund management contracts are reviewed for impairment at each reporting recorded initially at fair value and then date.
An assessment is made as to whether Financial assets held at fair value amortised over their useful lives on a there is any indication that an asset may through profit or loss straight-line basis.
The fair value at the date be impaired: if any such indication exists Designation of acquisition is calculated using discounted and where the carrying values exceed the Unless a financial asset is designated cash flow methodology and represents the estimated recoverable amount, the assets as being held to maturity, the default valuation of the net residual income stream are written down to their recoverable designation for a financial asset on arising from the fund management amount.
The recoverable amount is the acquisition is at fair value through profit contracts in place at the date of acquisition.
greater of fair value less costs to sell and or loss.
To qualify for such designation, The contracts are included in the balance value in use.
Impairment losses are an asset must either be: sheet as an intangible asset.
recognised in the income statement.
held for trading: At each reporting date, an assessment is an embedded derivative: h Associates and joint ventures made as to whether there is any indication recorded and measured as an investment Associates comprise those undertakings, that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any at fair value through profit or loss in order not being subsidiary undertakings, which such indication exists and the carrying to eliminate or significantly reduce a carry out related activities, and where the values exceed the estimated recoverable recognition or measurement Group is in a position to exercise significant amount, the assets are written down to inconsistency: or influence, but not control or joint control, their recoverable amount.
The recoverable part of a group of financial assets through participation in the financial and amount is the greater of fair value less costs managed and evaluated on a fair value operating policy decisions of the investee.
basis, in accordance with a documented Joint ventures comprise those undertakings, risk management or investment strategy, f Intangible assets software not being subsidiary undertakings, which information about which is provided internally to key management personnel.
The costs of purchasing and implementing carry on related activities, and where there software, together with associated relevant is contractually agreed sharing of control The Groups financial assets designated as expenditure, are capitalised where it is over the financial and operating policy at fair value through profit or loss principally probable that future economic benefits that decisions of the investee.
qualify under the held for trading criterion as are attributable to the assets will flow to the Investments in associates and joint they have been acquired for the purpose of Group and the cost of the assets can be ventures are accounted for using the equity selling in the short term.
The investments are carried in the include the Groups fixed income and Software is recorded initially at cost and balance sheet at cost as adjusted by money market portfolios, third party hedge then amortised over its useful life on a post-acquisition changes in the Groups fund investments, certain Private Banking straight-line basis.
It is included in the share of the net assets of the associate investments and seed capital investments balance sheet as an intangible asset.
other than those classified as being held for sale.
At each reporting date, an assessment is The income statement includes the Groups made as to whether there is any indication post-tax share of associates and joint The remainder of the financial assets are that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any ventures profits less losses for the year.
recorded at fair value because they provide such indication exists and the carrying Where a Group company transacts with a hedge against liabilities for long-term Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 employee benefits that are recorded at Financial assets held to maturity Carried interest represents the Groups present value in accordance with IAS 19 Designation share of the profits of private equity funds Employee Benefits or because they provide Where the Group has the positive intention once the investors have achieved a a hedge against financial liabilities held at to hold financial assets to maturity, such specified rate of return.
In respect of carried fair value in accordance with IAS 39.
Such investments are designated as held to interests, fair value is the carry accruing to assets are therefore designated in the same maturity.
Such assets are held exclusively the carried interest holder at the close of way as the hedged item in order to avoid a by the Groups Private Banking operations.
business on the balance sheet date, based recognition or measurement inconsistency upon the fair value of the underlying assets and principally comprise investments Measurement within the relevant limited partnership fund.
purchased by the Group to hedge against All investments are initially recognised at All regular way purchases and sales of compensation awards such as fund awards fair value, being the consideration given, financial assets are recognised on the trade and against deferred consideration payable including, where appropriate, acquisition date, i. e. the date that the Group commits on the acquisition of NewFinance Capital charges associated with the investment.
to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way NFC that derives its underlying value from Financial assets held to maturity are purchases or sales are purchases or sales specified hedge funds managed by the measured at amortised cost, being the of financial assets that require delivery of Group.
amount at which they are measured at initial assets within the time frame generally recognition less principal repayments, plus established by regulation or convention Measurement or minus the cumulative amortisation in the marketplace.
All investments are initially recognised at using the effective interest method of any fair value, being the consideration given, difference between that initial amount j Derivative financial instruments including, where appropriate, transaction and the maturity amount, and minus any and hedge accounting costs associated with the investment.
reduction directly or through the use of Derivative contracts are included at fair After initial recognition, investments which an allowance account for impairment or value at the balance sheet date within are classified as held at fair value through irrecoverability.
Financial assets or Financial liabilities.
profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Fair value represents the amount at which Gains or losses, together with transaction Financial assets that are availablea derivative could be exchanged in a costs, on investments are recognised within for-sale transaction at the balance sheet date Revenue in the income statement.
Such Designation between willing parties.
gains or losses, where they arise on seed The remaining financial assets, which do Where derivatives are held for risk capital investments, include distributions not meet the criteria to be designated at management purposes, the Group formally from funds.
fair value through profit or loss or held to documents the relationship between the maturity, are designated as available-forFor investments that are actively traded in derivative and any hedged item, its risk sale.
Such investments principally comprise organised financial markets, fair value is management objectives, its strategy for investments in limited partnership funds and determined by reference to official quoted undertaking the various hedging the Groups investment in SVG Capital plc.
market bid prices at the close of business transactions and its assessment, both at on the balance sheet date.
For quoted hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, Measurement investments that are not actively traded, fair of whether the derivatives that are used in All investments are initially recognised at value is determined by reference to quoted hedging transactions are highly effective in fair value, being the consideration given, prices from market participants and or offsetting changes in fair value of hedged including, where appropriate, acquisition valuation models.
charges associated with the investment.
there is no quoted market price, fair value is In relation to fair value hedges such as determined with reference to International After initial recognition, investments which forward foreign currency contracts which Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation are classified as available-for-sale are meet the conditions for hedge accounting, Guidelines or by independent professional measured at fair value.
Gains or losses, any gain or loss from re-measuring the valuers.
on available-for-sale investments are hedging instrument at fair value is recognised as a separate component of Carried interest represents the Groups recognised immediately in the income equity until the investment is sold, collected share of the profits of private equity funds statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged or otherwise disposed of, or until the once the investors have achieved a item attributable to the hedged risk is investment is determined to be impaired, specified rate of return.
In respect of carried adjusted against the carrying amount of at which time the cumulative gain or loss the hedged item and recognised in the interests, fair value is the carry accruing to previously reported in equity is included income statement.
Hedge accounting is the carried interest holder at the close of within Revenue in the income statement.
business on the balance sheet date, based discontinued when the hedging instrument upon the fair value of the underlying assets For investments that are actively traded in expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, within the relevant limited partnership fund.
organised financial markets, fair value is or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
determined by reference to official quoted All regular way purchases and sales of In relation to hedges of a net investment in market bid prices at the close of business financial assets are recognised on the trade a foreign operation, the portion of the gain on the balance sheet date.
For quoted date, i. e. the date that the Group commits or loss on the hedging instrument that is investments that are not actively traded, fair to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way determined to be an effective hedge is value is determined by reference to quoted purchases or sales are purchases or sales recognised directly in equity and the prices from market participants and or of financial assets that require delivery of ineffective portion is recognised in the valuation models.
For investments where assets within the time frame generally income statement.
On disposal of the there is no quoted market price, fair value is established by regulation or convention foreign operation, the gain or loss on the determined with reference to International in the marketplace.
hedging instrument recognised directly in Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation equity is transferred to the income statement.
Guidelines or by independent professional valuers.
Financial accounts 52 53 k Loans and advances to customers months or less.
Where the Group considers Debt securities in issue are initially Loans and advances to banks and that such items are not to be used for recognised at cost, being the fair value of customers are accounted for at amortised settling its liabilities, for example, securities the consideration received net of issue cost using the effective interest method.
with short maturity dates that will be rolled costs associated with the borrowing.
After over as part of an investment portfolio, they initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and Impairments for specific bad and are classified as financial assets rather than borrowings are subsequently measured at doubtful debts are made against loans cash and cash equivalents.
For the amortised cost using the effective interest and advances made by Private Banking purposes of the cash flow statement, cash method.
Amortised cost is calculated by subsidiaries to reflect an assessment of and cash equivalents consist of cash and taking into account any issue costs, and irrecoverability and are deducted from the cash equivalents as defined above, net of any discount or premium on settlement.
Such impairments are outstanding bank overdrafts where such Gains and losses are recognised within recorded within Administrative expenses facilities form an integral part of the Groups Revenue in the income statement when in the income statement.
l Deferred tax The deferred consideration arising from the o Non-current assets held for sale Deferred tax is provided in full, using acquisition of NFC is designated as at fair Non-current assets and disposal groups the liability method, on all taxable and value through profit or loss.
The liability acquired exclusively with a view to deductible temporary differences at the represents the obligation the Group has to subsequent disposal through sale or dilution balance sheet date between the tax bases the former owners of NFC in respect of are classified as held for sale and measured of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts linked to the performance of at the lower of their carrying amount and fair amounts for financial reporting purposes.
certain of the Groups hedge funds.
Such value less costs to sell.
amounts are designated as at fair value However, if the deferred tax arises from Non-current assets and disposal groups through profit or loss to avoid a the initial recognition of an asset or liability are classified as held for sale if their carrying measurement inconsistency with in a transaction other than a business amount will be recovered through a sale corresponding assets held by the Group.
combination that at the time of the transaction rather than through continuing transaction affects neither the accounting use.
This condition is regarded as met only r Deposits by customers and banks nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted when the sale is highly probable and the Deposits by customers and banks are for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are asset or disposal group is available for initially recognised at cost, being the fair measured at the tax rates that are expected immediate sale in its present condition.
value of the consideration received net of to apply to the period when the asset is Management must be committed to the any directly attributable transaction costs realised or the liability is settled, based on sale which should be expected to qualify for incurred.
After initial recognition, the tax rates and tax laws that have been recognition as a completed sale within one liabilities are accounted for at amortised enacted or substantively enacted at the year from the date of classification.
At date cost using the effective interest method.
of sale, post-tax gains or losses on such Deferred tax assets are recognised to the assets are taken to the income statement s Trade and other payables extent that it is probable that future taxable where they are recorded within Revenue.
Trade payables, other than long-term profit will be available against which the employee benefits see policy t below, deductible temporary differences can be p Insurance unit-linked liabilities and are recorded initially at fair value and utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on assets backing insurance unit-linked subsequently at amortised cost.
temporary differences arising on liabilities investments in subsidiaries, branches and Investments in authorised unit trusts and t Long-term employee benefits associates, except where the timing of the other financial assets held by the life Long-term employee benefits consist of reversal of the temporary difference is company are recognised and measured surpluses deficits in defined benefit pension controlled by the Group and it is probable under IAS 39 which applies to investment schemes and deferred cash awards under that the temporary difference will not reverse contracts that do not meet the insurance the Equity Compensation Plan.
They are in the foreseeable future.
contract definition under IFRS 4 Insurance recorded at the present value of the defined Contracts.
Accordingly the life fund assets benefit obligation at the balance sheet date m Trade and other receivables and liabilities are recorded at fair value, with less the fair value at the balance sheet date Trade receivables are recorded initially at fair gains and losses recorded within Revenue of plan assets out of which the obligations value and subsequently at amortised cost.
in the income statement in the year in which are to be settled directly.
For further details on the accounting policy Impairments for specific bad and doubtful debts are made against receivables to in respect of defined benefit schemes, see q Financial liabilities reflect an assessment of irrecoverability policy z below.
Items included within this caption on the and are deducted from the relevant assets.
face of the balance sheet principally The Group makes deferred cash awards Such impairments are recorded within comprise debt securities in issue, derivative to key employees under the Equity Administrative expenses in the income instruments see policy above on derivative Compensation Plan in the form of a notional statement.
instruments and deferred consideration investment in funds operated by the Group.
arising from the acquisition of NFC in 2006.
Such awards do not constitute share-based n Cash and cash equivalents It excludes financial liabilities that are payments, but are accounted for in Cash and cash equivalents comprise recorded under the following headings: accordance with IAS 19.
The Group hedges cash at bank and in hand and short-term such awards by investing in the underlying deposits with an original maturity of three Deposits by customers and banks: funds.
These awards are charged to Customer accounts: Administrative expenses within the income Trade and other payables: and statement in the performance year.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 that lapse are credited to the income Interest non-banking Dividends receivable statement, again within Administrative Interest on non-banking activities comprises Revenue is recognised when the expenses, in the year in which they lapse.
amounts due on the Groups liquid capital shareholders right to receive the payment and temporary surpluses or deficits in the is established.
u Provisions Groups cash accounts held with banks.
Provisions are recognised when the Interest receivable and payable not arising Returns from Private Equity investments Group has a present obligation legal or from the Groups Private Banking activities After initial recognition, investments which constructive as a result of a past event, is recognised using the effective interest are classified as held at fair value through it is probable that an outflow of resources method and is recorded in the income profit or loss and available-for-sale are embodying economic benefits will be statement within Interest receivable and measured at fair value.
required to settle the obligation, and a similar income or Interest payable and Gains or losses, together with transaction reliable estimate can be made of the similar charges, as appropriate.
costs, on investments held at fair value amount of the obligation.
through profit or loss are recognised in Interest banking Where the existence of an obligation is the income statement.
Gains or losses, Interest receivable on banking activities possible, dependent on uncertain events together with transaction costs, on comprises interest receivable on debt not wholly within the control of the Group, available-for-sale investments are securities and other fixed income securities, or a present obligation cannot be measured recognised as a separate component of loans, advances and deposits placed, reliably, or it is not probable that an outflow equity until the investment is sold, collected guarantee and commitment commissions, of resources embodying economic benefits or otherwise disposed of, or until the and is recognised using the effective interest will be required to settle the obligation, the investment is determined to be impaired, method.
Interest payable on banking Group discloses, but does not recognise, at which time the cumulative gain or loss activities comprises interest payable on a contingent liability.
previously reported in equity is included deposits taken and debt securities in issue, within Revenue in the income statement.
Where the Group expects to recover and is recognised using the effective interest amounts provided, for example under method.
Carried interests are recognised in the an insurance contract, the recovery is income statement on an accruals basis recognised as a separate asset but only Fees and commissions in accordance with the substance of the when the recovery is virtually certain.
Asset management fees, investment relevant contractual agreement.
Where advisory fees, ad hoc advisory fees, there is a contractual agreement to receive For provisions for surplus space, where custody fees, stock lending commission, such amounts subject to the fulfilment of the effect of the time value of money is commitment fees, arrangement fees, specified conditions, capital gains receivable material, provisions are determined by guarantor fees, and Directors fees are are recognised in the income statement on discounting the expected future cash flows accrued over the period for which the an accruals basis in accordance with the at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market service is provided.
substance of the relevant contractual assessments of the time value of money agreement.
Where there is no such and, where appropriate, the risks specific Private Banking transaction and loan-related agreement, capital gains receivable are to the liability.
Where discounting is used, fees, together with fees from structured client recognised when the right to receive the the increase in the provision due to the facilitation transactions are accrued over the payment is established.
passage of time is recognised as an period for which the service is provided.
Asset management fees received in advance x Cost of sales are taken to the balance sheet and amortised Commissions and distribution fees payable v Own shares over the period of the provision of the asset to third parties are recognised over the Employee trusts have been established for management service.
The period of provision period for which the service is provided.
the purposes of satisfying certain equityof asset management service is estimated based awards.
The holdings of these trusts Asset management fees paid in advance based on experience of average holding include shares that have not vested in respect of structured product funds and periods for investments in the separate unconditionally in employees of the Group the reimbursement of any marketing and geographical locations where such fees are own shares.
distribution fees paid to the distributor as earned.
Redemptions are reviewed on an agent of the fund are deferred and spread Own shares are held for the short term to annual basis and the amortisation rate over the life of the fund.
Fees paid to the meet future award requirements and are adjusted where there has been a significant distributor but not yet charged that relate recorded, at cost, as a deduction from and lasting change in redemption levels.
to deferred fees received are released to equity.
Asset management fees received in the income statement on redemption.
advance in respect of structured product w Revenue funds and the reimbursement of any y Leases Revenue is recognised to the extent that it marketing and distribution fees paid to the Leases where the lessor retains substantially is probable that the economic benefits will distributor as agent of the fund are deferred all the risks and benefits of ownership of the flow to the Group and the revenue can be and spread over the life of the fund.
Such asset are classified as operating leases.
Unless otherwise stated, deferred fees are released to the income Assets leased to customers under the types of revenue listed below are all statement on redemption.
agreements which transfer substantially all reported within Revenue in the income the risks and rewards of ownership, with or statement.
The following specific recognition Performance fees are recognised on an without ultimate legal title, are classified as criteria must also be met before revenue accruals basis in accordance with the finance leases.
is recognised: substance of the relevant contractual agreement.
Financial accounts 54 55 As lessor, income from finance leases is that lapse are credited to the income data from third party market participants to recognised within Revenue in the income statement in the year in which they lapse.
statement over the lease term under the Options granted over non-voting ordinary pre-tax net investment method.
Valuation of financial assets where there shares under the Groups Share Option is no quoted price Income from operating leases is recognised Plan are measured at fair value at the date Such assets principally consist of on a straight-line basis over the period of of grant.
The fair value determined is investments in private equity, venture and the lease.
Incentives given to enter into expensed on a straight-line basis over buy-out funds and are valued in accordance leases are amortised over the period of the vesting period, based on the Groups with International Private Equity and Venture the lease.
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Capital Valuation Guidelines and, where Fair value is measured by use of a As lessee, costs under operating leases appropriate, by independent professional stochastic option valuation model.
The are charged to the income statement as valuers.
This determination requires expected life used in the model has been Administrative expenses in equal amounts significant judgement particularly in adjusted, based on managements best over the periods of the leases.
Incentives determining changes in fair value since the estimate, for the effects of nonreceived to enter into leases are amortised last formal valuation by the fund manager.
transferability, exercise restrictions, and over the period of the lease.
In making this judgement the Group behavioural considerations.
evaluates among other factors the effect z Pensions and other postof cash distributions and changes in the ab Foreign currency translation employment benefits business outlook for each fund due to The results of subsidiary undertakings, The Group operates a number of pension the financial health and performance of branches and associates drawn up in schemes around the world.
For defined individual investments within each fund.
currencies other than Sterling are translated contribution schemes, pension contributions at average rates of exchange ruling during payable in respect of the accounting period Impairment of assets the year.
The assets and liabilities of these are charged as Administrative expenses to Goodwill and other assets that have entities are translated at the rate of the income statement.
For funded defined indefinite useful lives are tested annually to exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
benefit schemes, the cost of providing determine whether they have suffered any benefits is determined separately for each Exchange differences arising on the impairment.
Other intangible assets which plan using the projected unit credit actuarial translation of the results of these entities have a finite useful economic life are valuation method.
The difference between from the average rate used in the income reviewed for impairment whenever events the fair value of the plan assets and the statement to the closing rate used in the or changes in circumstances indicate that present value of the defined benefit balance sheet are taken through equity.
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds obligation at the balance sheet date, In addition, exchange differences arising its recoverable amount.
The recoverable together with adjustments for unvested past on the translation of the equity of these amount of an asset or a cash-generating service cost, is recognised as an asset or undertakings at the beginning of the year, unit is determined based on value-in-use liability, as appropriate, in the balance sheet.
together with hedges of such exposures, calculations prepared on the basis of An asset arising, for example, as a result of are also taken directly to equity.
past over-funding or the performance of the Foreign currency assets and liabilities are Disclosure of the sensitivity of carrying plan investments is recognised to the extent translated at the rates of exchange ruling at amounts of goodwill to the methods, that it is recoverable either in that it does the balance sheet date and any exchange assumptions and estimates underlying the not exceed the present value of future differences arising are taken to the income calculation is included in note 10 to the contribution holidays or through refunds statement within Revenue.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised ac Dividends payable Income taxes in full in the statement of recognised income Dividends payable are recognised when The Group is subject to income taxes and expense.
the dividend is paid or approved by in numerous jurisdictions.
required in determining the worldwide aa Share-based payments provision for income taxes.
There are The Group makes equity-settled share- 2.
Estimates and judgements transactions and calculations for which based payments to key employees through Estimates and judgements used in the ultimate tax determination is uncertain awards over ordinary and non-voting preparing the financial statements are during the ordinary course of business.
ordinary shares and by the grant of market periodically evaluated and are based on Where the final tax outcome of these value share options over non-voting historical experience and other factors, matters is different from the amounts that ordinary shares.
including expectations of future events that were initially recorded, such differences are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting will impact the income tax and deferred Awards over ordinary and non-voting accounting estimates will seldom equal the tax provisions in the period in which such ordinary shares made under the Groups related actual results.
The estimates and determination is made.
Equity Compensation Plan are charged at assumptions that have a significant effect fair value as Administrative expenses in on the carrying amounts of assets and Pension obligations the income statement.
The fair value of liabilities are discussed below.
The present value of the pension obligations an award is calculated using the market depends on a number of factors that are value of the shares on the date of grant, Valuation of quoted financial assets determined on an actuarial basis using a discounted for the dividends forgone over where there is no active market.
the average holding period of the award.
From time to time quoted investments held The fair value charges, adjusted to reflect by the Group may not be actively traded in The assumptions used in determining the actual and expected levels of vesting, are financial markets.
In such cases the Group net charge credit for pension costs include spread over the performance period and applies appropriate valuation techniques, the expected long-term rate of return on the the vesting period of the awards.
Awards including the use of valuation models and plans assets and the discount rate.
Any Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 changes in these assumptions will impact Surplus space the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group periodically reviews its space requirements and makes provisions where The expected return on plan assets the Group has no current need for space to assumption is determined on a uniform which the Group is already contractually basis, taking into consideration long-term committed under the terms of an operating historical returns, asset allocation and future lease agreement.
The calculation of the estimates of long-term investment returns.
required provision requires significant The Group determines the appropriate judgement, as the Group needs to estimate discount rate at the end of each year.
This the provision based upon discounted future is the interest rate that should be used to cash outflows due to be paid under the determine the present value of estimated lease less any potential cash inflows from future cash outflows expected to be sub-letting arrangements that the Group is required to settle the pension obligations.
These cash flows are then In determining the appropriate discount discounted for the remaining lease period.
rate, the Group considers the interest rates In estimating these cash flows, the Group of high-quality corporate bonds that are consults with external advisors in the denominated in the currency in which the relevant location to understand the potential benefits will be paid, and that have terms to sub-let the space, the rental rates which to maturity approximating the terms of the could be achieved and the potential amount related pension liability.
and time period of any leasehold inducements which may need to be offered The other key assumption that impacts the to successfully secure a sub-tenant.
carrying value of the obligation is that of expected mortality rates.
Any assumption Disclosure of the sensitivity of carrying made in this area is inherently uncertain.
amounts of provisions for surplus space to The Groups mortality assumptions are the methods, assumptions and estimates based on standard mortality tables underlying their calculation is included in projected forwards ten years for current note 24 to the accounts.
pensioners and 20 years for future pensioners with the medium cohort adjustment applied, augmented by underpinning to provide for a constant level of improvement in long-term mortality rates.
The Group reviews its assumptions annually in conjunction with its independent actuaries and considers this adjustment appropriate given the geographical and demographic profile of the scheme.
Other assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Further information, including sensitivity analysis, is given in note 5 to the accounts.
Segmental reporting i Primary reporting format business segments The Group has four continuing business segments: Asset Management, Private Banking, Private Equity and Group.
Asset Management principally comprises investment management including advisory services, property, life company business and alternative assets: Private Banking principally comprises investment management and banking services provided to high net worth individuals and certain smaller institutions: Private Equity principally comprises the Groups investments in private equity, venture and buy-out funds and related vehicles: and Group consists of income on the Groups capital less Group costs and provisions, and the results of the leasing business, which was sold during the year.
The allocation of costs to individual business segments is undertaken in order to provide management information on the cost of providing services and to provide managers with a tool to manage and control expenditure.
Costs are allocated on a basis that aligns the charge with the resources employed by the Group in a particular area of its business.
Typical dynamic allocation bases are square footage occupied and number of staff employed by particular business segments.
Non-current assets held for sale are included within the Group segment.
Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Total Year ended 31 December 2007 mn mn mn mn mn mn External revenue 991.4 87.6 48.1 41.0 1,168.1 External net interest 23.7 23.7 Inter-segment interest payable 1.7 1.7 Total revenue 991.4 109.6 48.1 41.0 1.7 1,191.8 Cost of sales 228.6 3.7 0.1 232.4 Gross profit 762.8 105.9 48.1 40.9 1.7 959.4 Administrative expenses 518.9 64.6 4.7 23.6 611.8 Operating profit 243.9 41.3 43.4 17.3 1.7 347.6 External interest receivable and similar income 7.6 15.5 23.1 Inter-segment interest receivable 8.0 6.3 1.7 Interest receivable and similar income 15.6 9.2 1.7 23.1 Interest payable and similar charges 0.2 0.3 0.5 Net finance income 15.4 8.9 1.7 22.6 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 7.2 15.1 22.3 Profit before tax 266.5 41.3 58.5 26.2 392.5 Administrative expenses include the following non-cash expenses: Share-based payments 28.0 2.3 0.1 2.5 32.9 Depreciation and amortisation of software 8.1 0.6 8.7 Provisions 0.1 0.2 5.3 5.4 36.2 2.7 0.1 2.8 36.2 Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Income tax Total Year ended 31 December 2007 mn mn mn mn mn mn mn 1 2 Segment assets 3,649.1 2,078.6 95.1 1,252.1 248.6 50.4 6,876.7 Segment liabilities 3,229.8 1,870.2 2.4 267.0 248.6 59.7 5,180.5 419.3 208.4 92.7 985.1 9.3 1,696.2 Capital expenditure on segment assets 28.5 0.3 1.7 30.5 1 Includes 15.4 million investment in joint ventures, 0.1 million investment in associates.
2 Includes 16.7 million investment in associates.
Impairment losses and the reversal of impairment losses have been recognised in the year as follows: 2007 Asset Management Private Banking Private Equity Group Total mn mn mn mn mn Reversal of impairment losses recognised: In profit or loss 0.1 0.1 Inter-segment amounts represent interest payable and receivable on cash balances held by Private Banking on behalf of Group companies.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 3.
Segmental reporting continued Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Total Year ended 31 December 2006 mn mn mn mn mn mn External revenue 811.1 80.1 22.2 31.0 944.4 External net interest 22.8 22.8 Inter-segment interest payable 4.4 4.4 Total revenue 811.1 98.5 22.2 31.0 4.4 967.2 Cost of sales 166.2 2.8 169.0 Gross profit 644.9 95.7 22.2 31.0 4.4 798.2 Administrative expenses 436.6 68.8 3.2 33.7 542.3 Operating profit 208.3 26.9 19.0 2.7 4.4 255.9 External interest receivable and similar income 6.3 13.8 20.1 Inter-segment interest receivable 5.2 0.8 4.4 Interest receivable and similar income 11.5 13.0 4.4 20.1 Interest payable and similar charges 0.6 0.8 1.4 Net finance income 10.9 12.2 4.4 18.7 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 0.2 15.6 15.4 Profit before tax 219.0 26.9 34.6 9.5 290.0 Administrative expenses include the following non-cash expenses: Share-based payments 23.3 1.5 2.7 27.5 Depreciation and amortisation of software 5.0 2.5 7.5 Provisions 0.1 5.9 5.8 28.2 4.0 8.6 40.8 Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Income tax Total Year ended 31 December 2006 mn mn mn mn mn mn mn 1 2 Segment assets 2,375.1 1,936.4 170.3 853.8 285.6 60.9 5,110.9 Segment liabilities 1,983.9 1,745.9 2.2 186.6 285.6 34.3 3,667.3 391.2 190.5 168.1 667.2 26.6 1,443.6 Capital expenditure on segment assets 10.8 1.2 12.0 1 Includes 3.6 million investment in joint ventures, 0.1 million investment in associates.
2 Includes 21.6 million investment in associates.
Impairment losses and the reversal of impairment losses have been recognised in the year as follows: 2006 Asset Management Private Banking Private Equity Group Total mn mn mn mn mn Impairment losses recognised: In profit or loss 0.2 1.4 1.6 Inter-segment amounts represent interest payable and receivable on cash balances held by Private Banking on behalf of Group companies.
Segmental reporting continued ii Secondary segment information geographical segments The geographic analysis is based on the geographical location of the Group's clients.
The allocation of costs to individual geographic areas is undertaken in order to provide management information on the cost of providing services and to provide managers with a tool to manage and control expenditure.
Costs are allocated on a basis that aligns the charge with the resources employed by the Group in a particular location.
Typical dynamic allocation bases are square footage occupied and number of staff employed by different geographic areas.
Non-current assets held for sale are included in the Americas segment 23.2 million and the Asia Pacific segment 14.3 million.
Comparative amounts are included in the Americas segment 50.1 million and the United Kingdom segment 10.0 million.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 4.
Revenues and expenses other disclosures 2007 2006 mn mn Included in revenues: Property rental income 3.0 3.7 1 Net losses on foreign exchange 7.0 36.4 Aggregate amounts receivable under finance leases 1.2 Net gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 55.3 65.5 Carried interests and distributions from available-for-sale Private Equity financial assets 33.3 11.0 Other net gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 6.9 13.7 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 1.4 Amounts recycled through revenues in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 40.2 23.3 Fee income arising from financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss 0.2 Interest income receivable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 128.8 112.8 Interest income receivable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.9 0.8 Interest expense payable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 106.0 90.8 Net interest income in Private Banking subsidiaries 23.7 22.8 1 Excludes foreign exchange on forward exchange contracts.
Such gains and losses are included in net gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
2007 2006 mn mn Included in administrative expenses: Salaries and other remuneration 357.1 299.6 Social security costs 34.6 30.1 Other pension costs see note 5 11.4 15.5 Employee benefits expense 403.1 345.2 Operating lease payments 26.0 25.0 The average number of employees employed by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year was: 2007 2006 Number Number Full-time employees 2,516 2,338 Contract and temporary staff 289 295 2,805 2,633 They were employed as follows all continuing operations : Asset Management 2,471 2,292 Private Banking 301 314 Private Equity 24 18 Group 99 2,805 2,633 Included in administrative expenses: Audit and non-audit fees 2007 2006 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Audit fees for the Annual Accounts 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 Year-end audit services to the subsidiaries of the Company 0.6 1.0 1.6 0.8 0.9 1.7 Other audit services provided pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Tax services 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.1 0.2 0.3 Other services 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.7 1.6 3.3 1.6 1.2 2.8 Financial accounts 60 61 4.
Revenues and expenses other disclosures continued 2007 2006 Included in net finance income: mn mn Bank interest receivable 7.8 7.0 Other interest receivable on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 2.7 0.5 Interest on financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 12.6 12.6 Interest receivable and similar income 23.1 20.1 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 0.2 Other interest payable on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 0.5 1.2 Interest payable and similar charges 0.5 1.4 5.
Retirement benefit obligations 2007 2006 The charge for retirement benefit costs is as follows: mn mn Pension costs defined contribution plans 10.3 8.7 Pension costs defined benefit plans 0.9 6.6 Other post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 11.4 15.5 The defined benefit scheme charge in respect of the UK scheme consists of: Current service cost 9.5 12.9 Expected return on scheme assets 35.3 29.2 Interest on scheme liabilities 25.6 22.3 Total credit charge in respect of the UK scheme 0.2 6.0 Charges in respect of other defined benefit schemes 1.1 0.6 Total defined benefit scheme charges 0.9 6.6 The principal scheme in the UK is the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme the Scheme which is non-contributory and administered by the Trustee.
It is a funded scheme comprising a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
It is open to new entrants and has 313 active members in the defined benefit section and 871 active members in the defined contribution section at 31 December 2007 2006: 357 and 776 respectively.
The most recent triennial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 1 January 2006 and disclosed that the market value of the assets of the Scheme represented 98 per cent.
of the liability, calculated on the funding ratio basis applicable to the Scheme, for the benefits that had accrued to members at that date allowing for future increases in earnings and pensions.
The Company paid effective contributions to the defined benefit section in 2007 of 40.8 per cent.
of pensionable salaries to cover the accrual of ongoing benefits until 1 June 2007 and 35.8 per cent.
For joiners on or after 1 June 1989, pensionable salaries for this purpose were subject to the statutory earnings cap which was in force until April 2006, after which this cap was replaced by a notional earnings cap.
The pension cost under IAS 19 for the defined benefit section of the Scheme has been determined by independent qualified actuaries, Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited, and is based on an assessment of the Scheme as at 1 January 2007.
This assessment was carried out using the projected unit method and the principal financial assumptions set out below.
Assets were taken at bid value and are held by an independent custodian.
Since the publication of the Groups last Annual Report and Accounts, the Group has changed the cap on inflation linked pension increases for pensions earned from 13 August 2007.
Pensions earned in respect of service from this date will increase in line with price inflation capped at 2.5 per cent.
The cap was previously set at 5 per cent.
The effect of this change on the Groups defined benefit section charge for the period is to reduce it by 0.3 million.
The Group has not materially changed any of the principal financial assumptions underlying the calculation of the Schemes net financial position, although such assumptions have been amended where applicable to reflect current market conditions and expectations.
Over the year, the contributions to the defined benefit section of the Scheme totalled 18.9 million 2006: 8.4 million.
The balance sheet asset at 31 December 2007 was 42.5 million 2006: 16.8 million.
This asset is included within the consolidated balance sheet as the Group, via the employing companies of the Scheme, has an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets once all members have left the Scheme.
Administration expenses and the levy payable to the Pensions Protection Fund are met directly by the Group.
The actual return on Scheme assets was 33.9 million 2006: 43.6 million.
The Group operates a number of smaller pension schemes around the world, some of which are funded defined benefit schemes with valuations performed regularly by qualified actuaries and the actuarial assumptions which vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the funds are situated.
In addition, there are several defined contribution schemes.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The additional disclosures required by IAS 19 are set out below.
Figures shown are for the defined benefit section of the Scheme only.
2007 2006 a Balance sheet assets: mn mn Pension benefits 42.5 16.8 2007 2006 b Income statement credits charges: mn mn Pension benefits 0.2 6.0 Pension benefits 2007 2006 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: mn mn Present value of funded obligations 512.8 500.8 Fair value of plan assets 555.3 517.6 Net asset recognised in the balance sheet 42.5 16.8 Scheme assets do not include any of the Companys shares 2006: nil or buildings occupied by the Group 2006: nil.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is a 9.3 million gain 2006: 2.7 million gain.
The expected rates of return on individual categories of Scheme assets net of investment expenses only are determined by reference to the following: Bonds based on an outperformance of 0.1 per cent.
per annum above the yield on long-dated government bonds at the balance sheet date.
Equities based on an outperformance of 3.3 per cent.
Liability-matching based on an outperformance of 0.4 per cent.
Other based on the long-term expected return on cash implied by swaps yields 2006: based on the UK three-month deposit rate.
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the year is as follows: 2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 500.8 471.7 Current service cost 9.5 12.9 Interest cost 25.6 22.3 Actuarial gains losses 8.0 8.8 Benefits paid 15.1 14.9 At 31 December 512.8 500.8 The movement in the fair value of Scheme assets during the year is as follows: 2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 517.6 480.5 Expected return 35.3 29.2 Actuarial losses gains 1.4 14.4 Contributions by employer 18.9 8.4 Benefits paid 15.1 14.9 At 31 December 555.3 517.6 The fair value of Scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 1 2007 2006 mn mn 2 Equity instruments 274.3 264.1 Debt instruments 33.2 24.1 Liability-matching assets 202.1 171.3 3 Other assets 45.7 58.1 555.3 517.6 1 Comparative amounts have been restated to present the liability-matching assets as a separate line item.
Retirement benefit obligations continued During 2005, the Schemes investment policy was reviewed with the aim of ensuring that the Group's ability to meet its benefit payments was better matched to its assets, both currently and in the future.
A new investment strategy was implemented in March 2006 by putting 35 per cent.
of the Schemes assets into liability-driven investments including bonds and derivatives such as interest rate and inflation swaps and cash so as to match the profile of the Schemes liabilities.
is invested in a diversified portfolio of growth assets with an allocation of approximately 40 per cent.
to a range of other asset classes, including property, private equity, hedge funds, commodities, currency, high yield and emerging market bonds.
The combination and the spread across the different asset classes has been designed to reduce risk while still generating an expected return in excess of the cost of meeting the Scheme's liabilities.
The principal financial assumptions used were as follows: 2007 2006 % % Discount rate 5.7 5.2 Inflation rate 3.1 2.9 Future salary increases 4.6 4.4 Future pension increases for benefits earned before 13 August 2007 3.1 2.9 Future pension increases for benefits earned after 13 August 2007 2.3 2.3 1 Expected return on Scheme assets analysed as : Equities 7.8 8.3 Bonds 4.6 5.0 Liability-matching assets 4.9 5.0 Other assets 5.3 5.4 Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 60: Men 28 26 Women 30 29 Number of years future pensioners currently aged 45 are expected to live beyond age 60: Men 30 27 Women 31 30 1 Comparative amounts have been restated to present the liability-matching assets as a separate line item.
The history of the Scheme is as follows: 2007 2006 2005 2004 mn mn mn mn Present value of defined benefit obligation 512.8 500.8 471.7 419.5 Fair value of Scheme assets 555.3 517.6 480.5 388.6 Surplus deficit in the Scheme 42.5 16.8 8.8 30.9 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities 0.6 1.0 10.1 1.4 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets 1.4 14.4 34.8 8.1 The amounts under IAS 19 that have been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense SORIE are set out below: 2007 2006 mn % mn % Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 1.4 14.4 % of year-end market value of assets 0.3 2.8 Experience gains and losses arising on Scheme liabilities 0.6 1.0 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 0.1 0.2 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the Scheme liabilities 8.6 7.8 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 1.7 1.6 Actuarial gains recognised in SORIE 6.6 5.6 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 1.3 1.1 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The sensitivity of the 2007 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows: Estimated Estimated reduction in reduction in pension pension liabilities liabilities Assumption Assumption change mn % Discount rate Increase by 0.5% per annum 48.4 9.4 Expected rate of salary increases Reduce by 0.5% per annum 3.2 0.6 Expected rate of pension increases in payment Reduce by 0.5% per annum 31.5 6.1 Life expectancy Reduce by one year 11.8 2.3 Membership details as at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Active workers 313 Total pensionable salary roll 23.1 million per annum Average age active 43 Average service in plan 10.5 years Number of deferred members 1,482 Total deferred pensions at date of leaving Scheme 9.6 million per annum Average age deferred 45 Number of pensioners 591 Average age pensioner 67 Total pensions in payment 12.9 million per annum The Group expects to make contributions totalling approximately 11.9 million to the Scheme in 2008.
Contributions to cover the accrual of ongoing benefits in the Scheme are made on a monthly basis.
Directors a Total emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors amounted to 10.1 million 2006: 7.4 million.
The aggregate of employer contributions to defined contribution arrangements in respect of the Directors during the year was 0.1 million 2006: 0.2 million.
Details of retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution arrangements and under the defined benefit section of the Scheme are provided in the remuneration report on pages 33 and 34.
The emoluments of the highest paid Director during the year amounted to 3.3 million 2006: 2.5 million.
There were 230,063 2006: 156,185 market value share options exercised during 2007 resulting in a gain of 1.1million 2006: 0.5 million.
There were 16,294 2006: 64,826 nil cost options exercised during 2007, resulting in a gain of 0.2 million 2006: 0.7 million.
There are no severance payments included in the emoluments for 2007 2006: nil.
Further details relating to emoluments paid to Directors are given in the remuneration report on pages 27 to 37. b Rights to deferred cash and shares Details of Directors rights to deferred cash and shares are provided in the remuneration report on pages 34 and 36. c Directors loans Under the Companies Act 1985, Schroder & Co. Limited is permitted as a banking company to make loans to Directors of the Company.
There were no loans outstanding at 31 December 2007 2006: nil to Directors which need to be disclosed pursuant to the Act.
Tax expense 2007 2006 a Analysis of charge in the year mn mn Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits of the year 69.4 38.7 Double tax relief 41.3 20.8 28.1 17.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 6.2 28.5 11.7 Foreign tax current 57.1 47.1 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 0.8 Total current tax 86.0 58.0 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.5 6.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 3.6 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 2.8 Total tax charge for the year 88.8 68.1 2007 2006 b Analysis of credit to equity mn mn Current income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards 3.9 6.1 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards current year 1.5 2.5 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards prior year 0.3 Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2.0 1.7 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 0.8 Tax credit reported in equity 2.6 6.6 c Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year is lower 2006: lower than the UK standard rate of corporation tax 30 per cent..
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 mn mn Profit before tax 392.5 290.0 Profit before tax multiplied by corporation tax at the UK standard rate of 30% 2006: 30% 117.8 87.0 Effects of: Impact of profits losses arising in jurisdictions with higher tax rates 1.4 7.0 Impact of profits losses arising in jurisdictions with lower tax rates 36.2 24.6 Non-taxable income net of disallowable expenses 1.6 4.7 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax current year 2.4 2.9 UK tax on profits of overseas entities after double tax relief 6.0 4.0 Overseas tax on profits of UK entities after double tax relief 0.7 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of change in corporation tax rates 2.8 Prior year adjustments: UK prior year current 0.4 6.3 Foreign tax prior year current 0.4 0.8 Deferred tax prior year 0.5 3.6 Total tax charge for the year 88.8 68.1 8.
Dividends 2007 2006 Pence per Pence per mn share mn share Declared and paid in year: Final dividend paid 49.5 17.5 42.0 14.5 Interim dividend paid 25.4 9.0 21.4 7.5 74.9 26.5 63.4 22.0 Proposed for approval at AGM: Final dividend for 2007 59.4 21.0 Dividends of 2.9 million 2006: 2.2 million on shares held by the employee trusts have been waived.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 9.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent of 299.7 million 2006: 221.3 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of own shares.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated as for basic earnings per share with a further adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares to reflect the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Reconciliation of the figures used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2007 2006 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share 285,824,617 287,844,376 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options 3,318,475 3,251,161 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares contingently issuable shares 1,104,262 944,844 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in calculation of diluted earnings per share 290,247,354 292,040,381 There have been no material transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since the reporting date and before the completion of these financial statements.
Goodwill 2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 65.3 24.6 Exchange translation adjustments 0.3 2.9 Additions 29.6 43.6 At 31 December 95.2 65.3 Of the increase in goodwill during the year, 18.6 million is attributable to contingent consideration relating to the 2006 acquisition of NewFinance Capital Holdings Limited.
The purchase agreement for the acquisition stated that an additional payment would become due should certain stringent performance criteria be met in 2008 and 2009.
The Directors now consider that it is probable the recognition criteria as set out in IFRS 3 will be met and the additional consideration has therefore been provided for.
The balance of the additional goodwill, being 11.0 million, is attributable to the acquisition of Aareal Asset Management GmbH AAM on 28 February 2007 see note 40.
The goodwill acquired during the year represents the value assigned on acquisition to the future benefits which the Group expects to achieve from the acquired businesses where these benefits are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised as either tangible or intangible assets.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
For all relevant acquisitions, the lowest level of CGU the Group is able to use to determine impairment is segment level.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2007 2006 mn mn Asset Management 90.2 60.3 Private Banking 5.0 5.0 95.2 65.3 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions on which management have based their five-year cash flow projections to arrive at the value-in-use are those regarding the market growth rates based on the Group's view of anticipated future market movements, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.1 per cent.
expected fund flows based on the aggregation of local expectations of country heads worldwide and expected changes to margins based on an analysis of the current fee structure flexed to take into account expected changes in product mix and the proportion of rebates payable to external distributors.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of goodwill to the methods and assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs is small due to the amount of goodwill on the Group's balance sheet relative to the size of the Group's estimations of future profitability within the business segments to which that goodwill has been allocated.
The effect of an increase decrease of 1 per cent.
in the pre-tax discount rate used would be nil.
Intangible assets 2007 2006 Fund Fund management management contracts Software Total contracts Software Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Cost At 1 January 9.9 23.8 33.7 27.5 27.5 Exchange translation adjustments 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.3 0.9 Additions 2.6 12.2 14.8 10.5 4.6 15.1 Disposals 0.1 0.1 8.0 8.0 At 31 December 12.5 36.4 48.9 9.9 23.8 33.7 Amortisation At 1 January 1.0 17.7 18.7 21.9 21.9 Exchange translation adjustments 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Amortisation for the year 1.7 3.1 4.8 1.0 4.1 5.1 Disposals 0.1 0.1 8.0 8.0 At 31 December 2.7 21.1 23.8 1.0 17.7 18.7 Carrying amount at 31 December 9.8 15.3 25.1 8.9 6.1 15.0 The increase in intangible assets during the year in respect of fund management contracts comprises the customer contracts and relationships acquired by the Group on the purchase of AAM see note 40.
Fund management contracts are amortised over their useful lives of five to seven and a half years.
The amortisation charge for the year was 1.7 million 2006: 1.0 million and is recorded within Cost of sales.
The software assets included above are amortised over their useful lives.
The Group has future commitments to purchase software with a value of 0.3 million 31 December 2006: 2.2 million.
None of the Groups intangible assets are internally generated.
Property, plant and equipment 2007 2006 Office Long leasehold Office Long leasehold equipment, premises and equipment, premises and computers and leasehold computers and leasehold 1 1 cars improvements Total cars improvements Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Cost At 1 January 17.5 31.7 49.2 17.9 28.3 46.2 Exchange translation adjustments 0.9 0.5 1.4 0.6 0.6 1.2 Additions 4.0 14.3 18.3 2.3 5.1 7.4 Disposals 1.1 1.9 3.0 2.1 1.1 3.2 At 31 December 21.3 44.6 65.9 17.5 31.7 49.2 Depreciation At 1 January 13.6 22.9 36.5 14.2 22.6 36.8 Exchange translation adjustments 0.7 0.5 1.2 0.5 0.4 0.9 Depreciation charge for the year 2.2 3.4 5.6 2.0 1.4 3.4 Disposals 1.1 1.9 3.0 2.1 0.7 2.8 At 31 December 15.4 24.9 40.3 13.6 22.9 36.5 Net book value at 31 December 5.9 19.7 25.6 3.9 8.8 12.7 1 Includes lease deposits of 1.0 million 2006: 1.0 million.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their useful lives.
The net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment for the year was nil 2006: nil.
At 31 December 2007 and 2006, none of the above assets were held under finance leases.
The Group has future commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment with a value of 0.1 million 31 December 2006: 9.7 million.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 13.
Associates and joint ventures 2007 2006 mn mn Associates 16.8 21.7 Joint ventures 15.4 3.6 Associates and joint ventures 32.2 25.3 The interest in associates comprised: Groups share of postacquisition Equity reserves Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 6.6 15.1 21.7 Capital redemptions 0.9 19.1 20.0 Profit for the year after tax 15.1 15.1 At 31 December 2007 5.7 11.1 16.8 The principal associate, Schroder Ventures Investments Limited SVIL, is unlisted and engaged in private equity investment.
Its results included in these accounts are shown below, together with the Groups percentage interest therein at 31 December 2007.
It is incorporated and operates in Guernsey.
Particulars of issued share and loan capital of the principal associate at 31 December 2007 are: Percentage owned by the Class Number Issued capital Group Guernsey Schroder Ventures Investments Limited Ordinary shares 446,200 4,462 50 Deferred shares 107,200 1,072 50 Redeemable preference shares 2,677,200 2,677 50 B redeemable preference shares 556,874 556,874 C redeemable preference shares 2,187,138 1,606 The financial statements of SVIL are prepared to 30 June each year.
Accounts are prepared to this date so that the companys year end is coterminous with those of its major investments.
For the purposes of applying the equity method of accounting, the interim financial statements of SVIL have been used.
When equity accounting for the investment in SVIL, the Group does not recognise its share of the unrealised gains or losses arising on SVILs own investments, except to the extent that such unrealised reserves fall below zero.
The Groups share of SVILs profit for 2007 does not equate to SVILs profit for the year multiplied by the Groups percentage ownership.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates is set out below: 2007 2006 Other Other SVIL associates Total SVIL associates Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Total assets 66.1 0.3 66.4 71.4 2.8 74.2 Total liabilities 9.2 0.1 9.3 18.9 18.9 Net assets 56.9 0.2 57.1 52.5 2.8 55.3 Groups share of associates net assets 16.7 0.1 16.8 20.7 1.0 21.7 Revenue 33.4 0.8 34.2 20.1 10.1 30.2 Profit for the year 32.7 0.8 33.5 18.1 10.2 28.3 Groups share of associates profit for the year 14.9 0.2 15.1 12.0 3.6 15.6 The Group has a contractual commitment to the further purchase of share capital in SVIL of 6.6 million, subject to call.
Associates and joint ventures continued Joint ventures The Groups principal joint venture is a 30 per cent.
interest in the ordinary share capital of the Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co. Ltd. which is involved in the management of funds in China.
The Group accounts for its holdings in joint ventures using the equity method.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures are as follows: 2007 2006 China joint Other joint China joint Other joint venture ventures Total venture ventures Total mn mn mn mn mn mn 1 Non-current assets 1.0 1.6 2.6 Current assets 17.4 0.2 17.6 4.6 0.2 4.8 Non-current liabilities 0.9 0.9 Current liabilities 3.7 0.2 3.9 1.1 0.1 1.2 Total equity 13.8 1.6 15.4 3.5 0.1 3.6 Revenue 14.4 0.4 14.8 3.3 0.4 3.7 Expenses 7.3 0.3 7.6 3.6 0.3 3.9 Groups share of joint ventures profit loss for the year 7.1 0.1 7.2 0.3 0.1 0.2 1 Includes 1.5 million of goodwill acquired on the purchase of a joint venture during the year.
Assets backing insurance unit-linked liabilities and insurance unit-linked liabilities Reconciliation of investments in authorised unit trusts to liability linked to life company investments: 2007 2006 mn mn Investments in authorised unit trusts 1,818.6 1,307.4 1 Other financial assets 907.8 211.7 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 12.9 Insurance unit-linked liabilities 2,727.8 1,532.0 1 Represents the assets of underlying funds in which the life company invests where the life company is in a position to be able to exercise control over those funds.
The above insurance assets and unit-linked liabilities arise within the Groups wholly-owned entity, Schroder Pension Management Limited the life company, which purchases units in open-ended authorised unit trusts on behalf of clients seeking to invest in unit trusts with a life assurance wrapper.
The life company may liquidate its investments on demand.
The Group has negligible exposure to credit risk in relation to the investments of the life company as the risks and rewards associated with its investments are borne by the investors in the life companys funds and not by the life company itself.
As is common practice in the industry, the life company has granted floating charges over its long-term insurance assets to its reinsured policy holders.
The floating charges convert into fixed charges in the event of the insolvency of the life company.
The charge ensures that such policy holders rank equally with direct policy holders in the event of the insolvency or winding-up of the life company.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 15.
Non-current financial assets 2007 Fair value Held to through profit maturity or loss Available-for-sale Total mn mn mn mn Equities listed 5.4 18.2 23.6 Equities unlisted 14.1 81.2 95.3 Debt securities listed 88.6 88.6 Other unlisted 0.1 0.5 0.6 Investments 88.6 19.6 99.9 208.1 Derivative contracts see note 27 12.7 12.7 88.6 32.3 99.9 220.8 2006 Fair value Held to through profit maturity or loss Available-for-sale Total mn mn mn mn Equities listed 5.2 13.3 18.5 Equities unlisted 18.7 102.8 121.5 Debt securities listed 57.3 57.3 Other unlisted 1.3 1.3 Investments 57.3 25.2 116.1 198.6 Derivative contracts see note 27 17.0 17.0 57.3 42.2 116.1 215.6 The Groups held to maturity financial assets are held within the Groups Private Banking operations as part of their banking book.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are held for trading, except for 7.8 million 2006: 13.7 million in respect of unlisted equities which are designated at fair value through profit or loss in order to significantly reduce a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring this asset and its related liability on a different basis.
The liability is linked to the fair value of this financial asset.
Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Trade and other receivables held at amortised cost: Fee debtors 52.6 52.6 46.1 46.1 Settlement accounts 52.4 52.4 54.3 54.3 Accrued income 151.3 4.7 156.0 141.5 6.6 148.1 Other debtors 37.6 2.6 40.2 20.6 3.0 23.6 Leasing receivables see note 19 1.7 5.2 6.9 293.9 7.3 301.2 264.2 14.8 279.0 Non-financial instruments: Prepayments 6.8 6.8 6.8 6.8 Other debtors 4.5 4.5 12.1 0.1 12.2 305.2 7.3 312.5 283.1 14.9 298.0 Detailed risk information on leasing receivables can be found in note 19.
All other trade and other receivables listed above are non-interest bearing.
The carrying amount of the non-interest bearing trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Current financial assets 2007 Hedge of net Fair value investments Held to through in foreign maturity profit or loss Available-for-sale operations Total mn mn mn mn mn Equities listed 405.1 53.9 459.0 Equities unlisted 291.7 4.2 295.9 Debt securities listed 35.4 302.8 338.2 Debt securities unlisted 820.4 25.4 845.8 Investments 855.8 1,025.0 58.1 1,938.9 Derivative contracts see note 27 29.7 29.7 855.8 1,054.7 58.1 1,968.6 2006 Hedge of net Fair value investments Held to through in foreign maturity profit or loss Available-for-sale operations Total mn mn mn mn mn Equities listed 190.8 59.9 250.7 Equities unlisted 180.4 6.0 186.4 Debt securities listed 16.7 262.9 279.6 Debt securities unlisted 940.6 6.7 947.3 Investments 957.3 640.8 65.9 1,664.0 Derivative contracts see note 27 15.8 1.9 17.7 957.3 656.6 65.9 1.9 1,681.7 The Groups held to maturity investments are held within the Groups Private Banking operations as part of their banking book.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are held for trading, except for 7.8 million 2006: 6.9 million in respect of unlisted equities which are designated at fair value through profit or loss in order to significantly reduce a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring this asset and its related liability on a different basis.
Loans and advances to customers of Private Banking subsidiaries 2007 2006 mn mn Loans and advances to customers of Private Banking subsidiaries 623.0 688.3 2007 2006 Gross Provisions Net Gross Provisions Net mn mn mn mn mn mn Maturing repricing whichever is earlier in: Less than 1 year 267.2 0.3 266.9 316.6 0.4 316.2 1 2 years 21.2 21.2 19.5 19.5 2 3 years 129.9 129.9 39.0 39.0 3 4 years 67.6 67.6 134.6 134.6 4 5 years 39.7 39.7 76.0 76.0 More than 5 years 97.7 97.7 103.0 103.0 356.1 356.1 372.1 372.1 623.3 0.3 623.0 688.7 0.4 688.3 A reversal of impairment of 0.1 million 2006: impairment charge of 0.2 million has been credited to the income statement in relation to loans and advances to customers of Private Banking subsidiaries.
Factors considered in determining whether impairment has taken place include how many days past the due date a receivable is, deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, and knowledge of specific events that could influence a debtors ability to repay an amount due.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 19.
Leasing receivables 2007 2006 Present value Present value of minimum of minimum Minimum lease Unearned lease Minimum lease Unearned lease payments finance income payments payments finance income payments mn mn mn mn mn mn Maturing in: Less than 1 year 1.9 0.2 1.7 1-5 years 2.8 0.9 1.9 More than 5 years 3.5 0.2 3.3 6.3 1.1 5.2 8.2 1.3 6.9 Until its remaining leases were sold during the year, the Group provided leasing facilities through the use of finance leases.
The majority of leases held during the year related to refrigeration equipment, commercial vehicles and film leases.
Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 mn mn Cash at bank and in hand 633.9 376.7 Cash equivalents 81.6 62.5 715.5 439.2 The book value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale From time to time, Group companies inject capital into funds operated by the Group seed capital.
Where the Group holds more than 50 per cent.
of the fund in which it is investing and where voting rights are attached to the holding, the Group technically controls the fund and it becomes a subsidiary of the Group.
Where the Group is actively seeking to reduce its holding, the fund is classified as being held for sale as it is considered highly probable that the fund will not remain under the control of the Group one year after the original investment is made.
If the Group still retains control of the fund after this time, the fund ceases to be classified as held for sale and is consolidated.
2007 2006 mn mn Seed capital classified as being held for sale 37.5 60.1 At 31 December 2007, the fair value of non-current assets held for sale was 38.0 million 2006: 61.7 million.
In the year to 31 December 2007, eight investments in funds were classified as non-current assets held for sale.
The eight funds in which the Group held seed capital investments at the start of the year ceased to be classified as non-current assets held for sale as they no longer met the conditions within IFRS 5 regarding such classifications.
Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
This may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
The effect of reclassifying these funds on the results of operations is to increase revenue by 1.1 million in 2007 2006: decrease of 0.9 million.
1.0 million 2006: nil has been charged to the income statement in relation to non-current assets held for sale.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of the assets.
Financial liabilities 2007 2006 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Deferred consideration payable on acquisitions 8.1 7.9 16.0 6.9 13.7 20.6 Floating rate unsecured loan notes 2007 0.3 0.3 8.1 7.9 16.0 7.2 13.7 20.9 Derivative contracts see note 26 51.4 12.4 63.8 10.7 17.0 27.7 59.5 20.3 79.8 17.9 30.7 48.6 All financial liabilities, with the exception of the unsecured loan notes, which were redeemed during the year and which were held at amortised cost, are held at fair value through profit or loss.
The derivative contracts are held for trading.
The deferred consideration, the value of which is linked to the fair value of certain unlisted equities held by the Group as an economic hedge, is designated at fair value through profit or loss to significantly reduce a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring this liability and the related asset on different bases.
Included in current derivative contracts are forward foreign exchange contracts with a fair value of 6.1 million 2006: nil held to hedge net investments in foreign operations.
2007 2006 mn mn Maturing repricing whichever is earlier of financial liabilities excluding derivatives in: Less than 1 year 8.1 7.2 1 2 years 7.9 6.9 2 3 years 6.8 7.9 13.7 16.0 20.9 23.
Deferred tax a Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities represent temporary differences, including bonuses.
2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 2.4 2.8 Exchange translation adjustments 0.2 0.1 Income statement expense 1.0 - Transfers 0.9 0.3 At 31 December 2.7 2.4 2007 Temporary Accelerated differences Tax losses capital including carried allowances bonuses forward Total b Deferred tax assets mn mn mn mn At 1 January 6.1 37.1 1.2 44.4 Exchange translation adjustments 0.7 0.7 Changes in timing differences income statement expense credit 1.3 0.7 1.6 1.0 Effect of changes in tax rates income statement expense 0.3 1.2 1.3 2.8 Debit taken to equity 0.5 0.5 Effect of changes in tax rates debit taken to equity 0.8 0.8 Acquisitions 1.7 1.7 Transfers 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 4.5 36.8 1.5 42.8 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 23.
Deferred tax continued 2006 Temporary Accelerated differences Tax losses capital including carried allowances bonuses forward Total mn mn mn mn At 1 January 8.5 43.8 2.6 54.9 Exchange translation adjustments 0.6 0.6 Income statement credit expense 2.4 6.3 1.4 10.1 Credit taken to equity 0.5 0.5 Transfers 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 6.1 37.1 1.2 44.4 A legislative change in the UK has reduced the main corporation tax rate from 30 per cent.
The effect of this is that the value of UK deferred tax assets has reduced, resulting in a tax charge in the current period.
Included in deferred tax assets relating to temporary differences including bonuses is an asset relating to UK tax deductions for sharebased remuneration which are dependent on the prices of Schroders ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares at the time the awards are exercised.
These have been recognised based on the share prices as at 31 December 2007.
Subsequent to the end of the period, Schroders share prices have fallen.
If the assets were recognised at the share price on 10 March 2008, the deferred tax assets would be reduced by 12.5 million.
A deferred tax asset of 16.3 million 2006: 10.4 million relating to realised and unrealised capital losses has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable gains in the future against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised.
A deferred tax asset of 21.4 million 2006: 20.5 million relating to losses and other temporary differences has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profit against which these losses and temporary differences can be utilised.
This unrecognised deferred tax includes an amount of 15.1 million 2006: 13.9 million relating to US losses of 33.5 million 2006: 30.3 million, which are subject to a minimum expiry period of 13 years.
The aggregate amount of gross temporary differences regarding investments in subsidiaries is 164.3 million 2006: 230.6 million.
Deferred tax has not been provided as the relevant parent company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset of 5.6 million 2006: 5.0 million relating to Excess Unrelieved Foreign Tax has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profit in the future against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised.
Provisions Surplus space Legal and other Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 5.9 18.8 24.7 Exchange translation adjustments 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of discounts 0.2 0.2 Provisions utilised 2.1 4.2 6.3 Additional provisions charged in the year 0.1 0.1 Unused amounts reversed in the year 1.2 4.5 5.7 At 31 December 2007 2.6 10.3 12.9 Current 2007 2.6 1.8 4.4 Non-current 2007 8.5 8.5 2.6 10.3 12.9 Current 2006 5.9 8.0 13.9 Non-current 2006 10.8 10.8 5.9 18.8 24.7 Financial accounts 74 75 24.
Provisions continued The Groups provisions are expected to mature in the following time periods: 2007 2006 mn mn Less than 1 year 4.4 14.6 Effect of discounting 0.7 4.4 13.9 1 2 years 1.6 2.5 2 3 years 1.4 2.6 3 4 years 1.4 1.3 4 5 years 1.5 1.3 More than 5 years 4.3 5.7 Effect of discounting 1.7 2.6 8.5 10.8 12.9 24.7 Legal The amount predominantly represents the balance of a provision in respect of matters covered by indemnification obligations under the terms of the sale of the investment banking business in 2000.
Details are not given as the Directors feel that to do so may prejudice the Group.
The timing of resolution of legal claims is subject to uncertainty, but it is possible that those matters will have been resolved by 31 December 2008.
Surplus space Provisions of 9.7 million 2006: 16.9 million have been made against certain leaseholds in connection with surplus space.
The provisions have been made taking into account residual lease commitments, other outgoings and sub-letting arrangements.
In arriving at the provisions, the cash flows have been discounted at rates representing an estimation of the interest rates relevant to the period of provision.
The weighted average of these rates is 5.2 per cent.
It is envisaged that the provisions will be utilised on an even basis until 2015.
The calculation of the surplus space provisions involves two principal assumptions: an estimation of the time value of money to the Group, and the mitigating effects of sub-letting income receivable.
Cash outflows are predominantly contractually agreed fixed amounts.
The effect on the provisions of an increase decrease of 1 per cent.
in the discount rate used in the calculation would be 0.4 million, whilst an increase decrease of 10 per cent.
in expected future sub-letting income receivable would produce a decrease increase in the provisions of 1.2 million.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of surplus space provisions to the methods and assumptions used in their estimation is therefore not considered to be significant.
Trade and other payables continued The carrying amount of the financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates their fair value.
Non-equity minority interests arise where non-current assets previously classified as being held for sale see note 21 are consolidated.
When this occurs, the Group acquires a liability in respect of minority interests in the funds of which the Group has control.
Such minority interests are distinguished from equity minority interests in that the Group does not hold an equity stake in such funds.
Derivative contracts a Why the Group uses derivatives The Group holds derivatives for risk management and customer facilitation purposes only.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes.
Risk management: the Group actively seeks to limit and manage its exposures to risk where that exposure is not desired by the Group.
This may take the form of unwanted exposures to a particular currency, type of interest rate or other price risk.
By purchasing or selling derivative contracts, the Group is able to mitigate or eliminate such exposures.
The principal risk the Group faces through such use of derivative contracts is one of credit risk only.
For details of how the Group manages its exposures to credit risk, see b below and note 28.
Customer facilitation: The Groups Private Banking entities are involved in providing portfolio management, banking and investment advisory services, primarily to private clients.
In carrying out this business they transact as agent and principal in financial assets and liabilities in order to meet customer facilitation requirements.
The Groups policy is to hedge, as appropriate, exchange rate and interest rate risk on its customer facilitation positions using foreign exchange and interest rate contracts.
This hedging of equal and opposite risks eliminates any market risk, but does not eliminate the possibility of credit risk.
Derivative contracts continued b What kind of derivatives the Group uses Currency forwards represent commitments to purchase foreign and domestic currency, including undelivered spot transactions.
Foreign currency and interest rate futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or interest rates or to buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price, established in an organised financial market.
For customer facilitation contracts, the credit risk is negligible, as futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities, and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the exchange.
For other contracts, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the fair value of the contracts.
Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate futures that call for a cash settlement at a future date for the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
2007 2006 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities mn mn mn mn mn mn Interest rate contracts 5,921.1 6.6 6.4 1,475.0 3.3 3.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 6,898.4 11.7 33.6 960.2 13.9 6.6 Equity contracts 197.7 21.1 20.1 228.3 15.4 15.8 Commodity contracts 37.6 3.0 3.7 47.5 2.1 2.1 13,054.8 42.4 63.8 2,711.0 34.7 27.7 The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, indices or foreign exchange rates relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favourable or unfavourable, and thus the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities, can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 27.
Derivative contracts continued Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates for example, fixed rate for floating rate or a combination of all these i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
No exchange of principal takes place, except for certain currency swaps.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligation.
This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Company assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign currency, equity and interest rate options are contractual agreements under which the seller writer grants the purchaser holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument at a predetermined price.
The seller receives a premium from the purchase in consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, equity or interest rate risk.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer OTC.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
Financial instrument risk management The Group is subject to market risk throughout its business as discussed in the business review.
In addition, operational, liquidity and credit risk exposures exist within the business.
The effectiveness of the Groups risk management process is, therefore, critical to its soundness and profitability and considerable resources are dedicated to this area.
Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Groups senior management.
The Schroder Group Risk and Compliance functions are responsible for monitoring the overall risk environment.
The Group has established a control environment that ensures risks are reviewed regularly and that all risk controls operating throughout the Group are in accordance with regulatory requirements.
In addition, an independent assessment of the risk management process and the fundamental risk assumptions is provided by Schroder Group Internal Audit.
Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
The Group, through the Principal Risk Committee PRC, carefully manages its exposure to credit risk by approving lending policies including types of acceptable collateral and minimal lending margins, setting limits for individual exposures and sectors and security.
All individual facility requests are presented to the PRC and exposures against limits are monitored daily.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets less the collateral held on its loans and advances to customers.
Loans and receivables at amortised cost Financial assets at amortised cost principally comprise loans and advances to customers, fee debtors, settlement accounts and cash and cash equivalents: Loans and advances to customers are fully secured on a range of assets including property both residential and commercial, cash, client portfolios and insurance policies.
It is the policy of the Groups Private Banking entities not to advance client facilities on an unsecured basis.
Fee debtors arise principally within the Groups institutional business and amounts are monitored regularly by local offices.
Historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
Although the Group is usually managing client cash representing a large multiple of the amount owed to the Group by the client, the Group does not hold any of the assets it invests on behalf of its clients as collateral.
The Groups fee debtors that are past due but are not considered to be impaired as at 31 December are presented below.
2007 2006 mn mn Not older than 30 days 3.0 1.9 Older than 30 days not older than 45 days 1.0 0.5 Older than 45 days not older than 60 days 2.7 0.8 Older than 60 days not older than 90 days 1.4 1.3 Older than 90 days not older than 120 days 1.2 1.4 Older than 120 days not older than 180 days 0.9 2.0 Older than 180 days 1.5 2.0 11.7 9.9 Financial accounts 78 79 28.
Financial instrument risk management continued The credit risk attributable to settlement accounts is 100 per cent.
of the nominal amount involved.
However, the period of exposure is very short and the majority of the counterparties are unit trusts managed by the Group.
In other markets, it is expected as experience has shown that market co-operation and official intervention would prevent loss.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents are concentrated principally in its Private Banking entities and fall within their treasury portfolios see the Held to maturity financial assets section below.
The remainder of the Groups cash and cash equivalents is invested primarily in current accounts with well-rated UK and overseas banks.
Held to maturity financial assets All assets within the Private Banks treasury book are classified as held to maturity financial assets and are unsecured.
Policies and limits are set by the PRC and monitored daily.
of the treasury portfolio is rated A or better.
The portfolio has no exposures to emerging markets, sub-investment grade assets or any asset backed securities.
The Private Banks take a conservative approach to their treasury investments which are concentrated in terms of industrial sectors purely to well-rated UK and overseas banks and government securities.
All assets within the treasury book are unsecured.
No held to maturity financial assets or loans and advances to banks were impaired during the year 2006: nil or are past due as at 31 December 2007 2006: nil.
Financial assets held at fair value Such assets comprise investments in equities, debt securities and derivative instruments with positive fair values.
Substantially all of the Groups investments in equities at fair value are in listed companies or in unlisted funds managed by the Group.
The Group also has investments in unlisted private equity funds.
For each type of equity and debt security investment, the maximum credit risk is the carrying value.
Breakdown of debt securities per investment grade as at 31 December: 2007 2006 2 Credit rating : Sovereign 12% 9% AAA 54% 65% AA 1% AA 4% 3% A 17% 9% A 5% 5% A- 1% BBB 1% BBB 1% Non-investment grade 8% 5% 100% 100% 2 Standard & Poor ratings Moody ratings.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 28.
Financial instrument risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Schroders cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
The principal liquidity risk the Group faces concerns its Private Banking liabilities.
The liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding, meet all obligations as they fall due and maintain the solvency of the Private Banks as well as the rest of the Group.
This is maintained through the management of the Private Banks treasury against limits set and monitored daily.
For details of maturity analyses, see notes 18, 24, 25, 26 and 27, although, in practice, customer deposits tend to be repaid later than on the earliest date on which repayment can be required.
In terms of non Private Banking liquidity, the Group has investment capital which is invested in fixed income and money market portfolios.
Liquidity in these portfolios is monitored by the Group on a regular basis.
Schroders has no committed standby lines 2006: nil.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
In the Private Banks, interest rates are monitored daily against policies and limits set by the PRC.
Schroders treasury policy is to hedge fixed rated assets and liabilities back to the floating rate as much as possible and therefore outright interest rate risk arises mainly from the decision to allow a limited amount of mismatch between the cash flows.
Within the Private Banks, two methods are used for monitoring interest rate risk: Sensitivity analysis PV01 this assesses the impact on Schroders current net worth against a one basis point parallel rise in interest rates and is calculated daily for each currency although the main risk is from Sterling positions and then in aggregate.
Stress testing PV200 this is calculated in the same way as the PV01, but against the much more severe change of a 200 basis point movement both up and down in interest rates.
Interest rate risk in the Private Bank is limited due to the short-term nature of the Private Banks financial assets.
In the case of changes in market interest rates, the Private Banks treasurer can reprice the assets within an average of three months.
Cash held by the operating companies is not normally expected to be placed on deposit for longer than a month and much is invested in short-term liquidity funds with virtually no interest rate risk.
The Groups capital includes investments in fixed income and money market portfolios, funds managed by the Groups fixed income fund managers and short-term liquidity funds.
These investments are managed to a maximum average duration of 18 months.
The fund managers may reduce the average duration with the use of futures contracts at their discretion.
At 31 December 2007, if interest rates had been 200 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 8.2 million 2006: 4.9 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest income on the Groups floating rate debt securities and cash: other components of equity would have been unaffected.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits in the Private Banks: the fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates within the Private Bank, the fixed rate financial assets will be repriced to the higher lower market interest rates the average term for repricing is three months.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits in the rest of the Group: the fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates funds would be reinvested in similar variable interest bearing debt securities on maturity.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
In the Private Banks, some loans and advances to clients as well as a proportion of the treasury activities are undertaken in foreign currencies: however, this is hedged on a daily basis to reduce currency exposures to low levels.
Limits regarding the amount of foreign currency risk that the Group is exposed to are set by the PRC and monitored daily.
Given the low level of currency mismatch within the Group, the FSAs Basic Methodology for calculating the exposure is used.
The Groups policy in relation to revenue and expenditure currency exposure is not to hedge, as the Groups revenue is earned and expenditure incurred in many currencies and the resulting exposure is considered part of the business.
Financial instrument risk management continued The Group hedges some of its investments in foreign operations using forward foreign exchange contracts with third parties to mitigate exposure to currency movements where it is considered that the Sterling values of such amounts are at risk.
The use of such instruments is limited and is subject to the approval of the Group Capital Committee.
At 31 December 2007, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 10 per cent.
against Sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would increase decrease by 13.0 million 10.6 million respectively 2006: 6.3 million 5.2 million principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would increase decrease by 9.8 million 8.0 million 2006: 9.3 million 7.6 million, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
At 31 December 2007, if the Euro had strengthened weakened by 10 per cent.
against Sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would increase decrease by 5.1 million 4.1 million respectively 2006: 4.6 million 3.8 million principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would increase decrease by 15.2 million 12.4 million 2006: 9.3 million 7.6 million, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
Pricing risk Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
The Group holds equity investments in its seed capital portfolio.
Equity market exposure is hedged where it is considered that the amount at risk is material and an effective hedge is available.
The Group also holds debt security investments in its fixed income and money market portfolios.
Pricing risk of these investments is partially mitigated by their short term nature.
At 31 December 2007, if the FTSE All Share Index had been 20 per cent.
higher lower with all other variables held constant, the effect on post-tax profit would be an increase decrease of 105.9 million 69.4 million respectively 2006: 81.5 million 71.3 million respectively, principally as a result of an increase decrease in management and performance fees receivable and in the fair values of equities held at fair value through profit or loss: other components of equity would increase decrease by 26.9 million 2006: 30.6 million, principally as a result of the increase decrease in fair values of available-for-sale investments.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits and other components of equity: changes in the FTSE All Share Index correlate to changes in the Groups equity funds performance fees, being principally based on returns relative to specific indices, would be unaffected by changes in the index the Groups investments in debt securities and hedge funds are assumed to have no correlation to the FTSE All Share Index the Groups Private Equity investments are assumed to have perfect correlation to the FTSE All Share Index for all but property investments, which are assumed to have no correlation.
Capital management Investment capital is the Groups capital that is not required for the regulatory and working capital requirements of the business.
It is invested in the following areas: Fixed income and money market portfolios Seed capital Private equity Third party hedge funds Other investments, such as property, warehousing and legacy investments.
The investment capital is held to assist existing products and businesses and to accelerate their development: to support the organic development of new businesses which fit with the existing asset management franchise: and to respond to other investment and growth opportunities, such as acquisitions that will accelerate the development of the business, as they arise.
The investments in seed capital, property funds, warehousing and non-legacy private equity are primarily to support the business.
The remainder of the investment capital is invested in fixed income securities and a portfolio of third party hedge funds.
The objectives are to maintain liquidity and to optimise the return on investments while minimising the risk of capital losses.
Other structural considerations underlying the way in which investment capital is deployed are to avoid or hedge exposure to markets so as not to increase the Groups operational gearing and to minimise currency exposure by hedging into Sterling.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 29.
Additional disclosures on financial instruments 2007 Designated as at fair value through NonAt amortised Held to Held for profit or AvailableHeld for financial cost maturity trading loss for-sale sale instruments Total mn mn mn mn mn mn mn mn Assets Goodwill 95.2 95.2 Intangible assets 25.1 25.1 Property, plant and equipment 25.6 25.6 Associates and joint ventures 32.2 32.2 Financial assets 944.4 1,087.0 158.0 2,189.4 Loans and advances to customers 623.0 623.0 Deferred tax 42.8 42.8 Retirement benefit scheme assets 42.5 42.5 Current tax 7.6 7.6 Trade and other receivables 301.2 11.3 312.5 Cash and cash equivalents 715.5 715.5 Non-current assets held for sale 37.5 37.5 Assets backing insurance unit-linked liabilities 1.4 2,726.4 2,727.8 1,641.1 944.4 1,087.0 2,726.4 158.0 37.5 282.3 6,876.7 Liabilities Financial liabilities 63.8 16.0 79.8 Deposits by customers and banks 1,732.7 1,732.7 Deferred tax 2.7 2.7 Provisions 12.9 12.9 Current tax 57.0 57.0 Trade and other payables 499.9 67.7 567.6 Insurance unit-linked liabilities 2,727.8 2,727.8 2,245.5 63.8 2,743.8 127.4 5,180.5 2006 Designated as at fair value through NonAt amortised Held to Held for profit or AvailableHeld for financial cost maturity trading loss for-sale sale instruments Total mn mn mn mn mn mn mn mn Assets Goodwill 65.3 65.3 Intangible assets 15.0 15.0 Property, plant and equipment 12.7 12.7 Associates and joint ventures 25.3 25.3 Financial assets 1,014.6 700.7 182.0 1,897.3 Loans and advances to customers 688.3 688.3 Deferred tax 44.4 44.4 Retirement benefit scheme assets 16.8 16.8 Current tax 16.5 16.5 Trade and other receivables 279.0 19.0 298.0 Cash and cash equivalents 439.2 439.2 Non-current assets held for sale 60.1 60.1 Assets backing insurance unit-linked liabilities 12.9 1,519.1 1,532.0 1,419.4 1,014.6 700.7 1,519.1 182.0 60.1 215.0 5,110.9 Liabilities Financial liabilities 0.3 27.7 20.6 48.6 Deposits by customers and banks 1,628.7 1,628.7 Deferred tax 2.4 2.4 Provisions 24.7 24.7 Current tax 31.9 31.9 Trade and other payables 346.4 52.6 399.0 Insurance unit-linked liabilities 1,532.0 1,532.0 2,000.1 27.7 1,552.6 86.9 3,667.3 For all financial instruments, carrying value approximates fair value.
Details of differences between the carrying and fair values of noncurrent assets held for sale can be found in note 21.
Share capital Number Non-voting of shares Ordinary shares ordinary shares Total shares Share premium Units mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 293,875,873 226.0 67.9 293.9 36.4 Shares issued 3,866,560 3.9 3.9 24.8 Shares cancelled 3,243,590 3.3 3.3 3.1 At 31 December 2007 294,498,843 226.0 68.5 294.5 58.1 Non-voting Number of shares Ordinary shares ordinary shares Total shares Share premium Units mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2006 298,471,751 226.0 72.5 298.5 32.1 Shares issued 4,154,782 4.2 4.2 23.6 Shares cancelled 8,750,660 8.8 8.8 19.3 At 31 December 2006 293,875,873 226.0 67.9 293.9 36.4 2007 2006 2007 2006 Number Number mn mn Authorised: Ordinary shares of 1 each 226,022,400 226,022,400 226.0 226.0 Non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each 113,977,598 113,977,598 114.0 114.0 339,999,998 339,999,998 340.0 340.0 Allotted, called-up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1 each 226,022,400 226,022,400 226.0 226.0 Non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each 68,476,443 67,853,473 68.5 67.9 294,498,843 293,875,873 294.5 293.9 The difference between the share classes The non-voting ordinary shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not confer the right to attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company, and that on a capitalisation issue they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
Own shares Employee trusts have been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards.
At 31 December 2007, the trusts held 5,636,875 2006: 8,444,416 non-voting ordinary shares costing 50.6 million 2006: 73.9 million, with a market value of 65.8 million 2006: 88.3 million.
In addition, the trusts held 4,948,846 2006: 3,494,308 ordinary shares costing 52.4 million 2006: 35.1 million, with a market value of 64.4 million 2006: 39.0 million.
Dividends on shares held by the trusts are waived.
Movements during the year were as follows: 2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 90.9 45.7 Own shares purchased 21.5 90.8 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 15.9 33.5 1 Own shares disposed through vesting 21.0 12.1 At 31 December 75.5 90.9 1 On vesting, own shares balances are transferred to the profit and loss reserve insofar as they relate to share-based payments and to the shares to be issued reserve insofar as they relate to certain contractual obligations to issue shares for example, as part of the consideration for an acquisition.
Any profit or loss made on disposal is recorded directly in the profit and loss reserve.
Other reserves Net exchange 1 Shares to be issued Capital reserves Own shares held differences Total mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 15.1 156.3 90.9 53.7 26.8 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 25.4 25.4 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 25.4 25.4 Shares cancelled 2.7 2.7 Consideration paid in the form of shares 5.0 4.9 0.1 Own shares purchased 21.5 21.5 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 15.9 15.9 Transfers 2.8 16.1 18.9 At 31 December 2007 10.1 161.8 75.5 28.3 68.1 Net exchange 1 Shares to be issued Capital reserves Own shares held differences Total mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2006 185.5 45.7 12.2 152.0 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 65.9 65.9 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 65.9 65.9 Shares cancelled 5.2 5.2 Consideration payable in the form of shares 15.1 15.1 Own shares purchased 90.8 90.8 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 33.5 33.5 Transfers 34.4 12.1 22.3 At 31 December 2006 15.1 156.3 90.9 53.7 26.8 1 Shares to be issued represent outstanding deferred consideration in respect of the 2006 acquisition of NewFinance Capital Holdings Limited.
Retained profits reserve Associates Fair value Hedging Profit and Retained reserve reserve reserve loss reserve profits mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 14.9 124.0 5.3 942.1 1,086.3 Net losses on hedges recognised directly in equity 9.4 9.4 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 5.5 5.5 Net gains on available-for-sale financial assets 2.7 15.6 18.3 Amounts recycled through the income statement 40.2 40.2 Tax on items taken directly to equity 2.6 2.6 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 2.7 24.6 9.4 8.1 23.2 Profit for the year 22.3 277.4 299.7 Total recognised income and expense for the year 25.0 24.6 9.4 285.5 276.5 Shares cancelled 30.4 30.4 Net gains on disposals of own shares 3.5 3.5 Share-based payments 32.9 32.9 Dividends 74.9 74.9 Transfers 19.1 0.2 18.9 At 31 December 2007 20.8 99.4 4.1 1,158.9 1,275.0 Financial accounts 84 85 33.
Retained profits reserve continued Associates Fair value Hedging Profit and Retained reserve reserve reserve loss reserve profits mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2006 24.0 83.6 26.9 779.5 860.2 Net gains on hedges recognised directly in equity 32.2 32.2 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 5.5 5.5 Net gains on available-for-sale financial assets 1.5 63.7 65.2 Amounts recycled through the income statement 3.5 23.3 26.8 Tax on items taken directly to equity 6.6 6.6 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 2.0 40.4 32.2 12.1 82.7 Profit for the year 15.4 205.9 221.3 Total recognised income and expense for the year 13.4 40.4 32.2 218.0 304.0 Shares cancelled 61.4 61.4 Net losses on disposals of own shares 2.9 2.9 Share-based payments 27.5 27.5 Dividends 63.4 63.4 Transfers 22.5 44.8 22.3 At 31 December 2006 14.9 124.0 5.3 942.1 1,086.3 34.
Minority interests 2007 2006 Non-equity Equity minority Non-equity Equity minority minority interests interests Total minority interests interests Total mn mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 1.2 0.2 1.4 13.3 0.3 13.6 Exchange translation adjustments 1.4 1.4 Additions see notes 40 and 41 38.4 0.1 38.5 28.7 28.7 Disposals see note 41 19.4 19.4 40.1 40.1 Profit retained for the year 3.6 0.4 4.0 0.7 0.1 0.6 Distributions made 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 23.8 0.5 24.3 1.2 0.2 1.4 Non-equity minority interests arise when funds previously classified as non-current assets held for sale are consolidated see notes 21, 25 and 41 and where the Group holds less than 100 per cent.
of the investment in those funds.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 35.
Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities 2007 2006 mn mn Operating profit 347.6 255.9 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation of software 8.7 7.5 Amortisation of fund management contracts 1.7 1.0 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets recycled through the income statement 1.4 Other amounts recycled through the income statement in respect of financial assets 40.2 24.7 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 72.6 241.2 Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 231.5 195.1 Increase in insurance unit-linked liabilities 1,195.8 1,532.0 Net decrease in financial liabilities 15.9 Net release of charge for provisions 5.4 5.8 1 Net gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 46.2 30.3 Share-based payments expensed 32.9 27.5 Other non-cash movements 1.6 52.0 Payments made to defined benefit schemes 19.9 9.3 UK corporation tax paid recovered 9.3 5.1 Overseas tax paid 58.2 36.2 Interest received 0.5 10.6 Interest paid 0.5 1.4 Net purchase of assets backing insurance unit-linked liabilities 1,207.3 1,519.1 Net proceeds outflow from current financial assets 114.9 6.6 Net cash from operating activities 620.8 209.2 1 Excludes gains and losses on all derivative assets and liabilities.
Commitments and contingent liabilities 2007 2006 a Commitments mn mn Documentary credits 13.8 3.6 Undrawn loan facilities 107.5 100.6 Investment call commitments 17.2 55.6 Other commitments 6.6 6.6 145.1 166.4 2007 2006 b Contingent liabilities mn mn Assets pledged as collateral security 26.1 21.1 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 66.6 38.0 92.7 59.1 c Future capital expenditure At 31 December 2007, there was 0.4 million 2006: 11.9 million capital expenditure contracted but not provided in the accounts.
d Litigation Certain Group undertakings are the subject of current or pending legal actions: the Directors believe that none of these actions, either individually or in aggregate, is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
e i Operating leases as lessee At 31 December, the Groups commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were: 2007 2006 Office Office Offices equipment Offices equipment m m m m Commitment expiring in: Less than 1 year 25.4 0.5 22.1 0.5 1-5 years 90.8 0.7 89.0 0.9 More than 5 years 70.9 57.1 187.1 1.2 168.2 1.4 Leases in respect of office properties are negotiated for an average term of 3.4 years 2006: 3.6 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 2.8 years 2006: 2.7 years.
Leases in respect of office equipment are negotiated for an average term of 1.6 years 2006: 2.8 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 1.5 years 2006: 2.5 years.
Commitments and contingent liabilities continued ii Operating leases as lessor The Group sublets certain of its properties around the world.
At 31 December, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were: 2007 2006 Offices Offices mn mn Commitment expiring in: Less than 1 year 2.5 2.8 1-5 years 11.3 6.6 More than 5 years 12.0 2.2 25.8 11.6 Subleases in respect of office properties are negotiated for an average term of 5.0 years 2006: 4.9 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3.3 years 2006: 4.9 years.
f Other The Group has a contractual obligation to reinstate certain leasehold premises before expiry of the lease in 2018.
The Directors believe that this obligation cannot be provided for because it cannot be measured reliably.
Obligations of certain Group companies under the Euroclear settlement system are secured by charges on assets held on their behalf from time to time within that system and by cash deposits placed.
In the ordinary course of business, subsidiary undertakings have custody of customers securities, act as trustees and issue indemnities on behalf of customers who have lost certificates of title.
The Company and subsidiary undertakings have also provided letters of comfort to regulatory authorities and others that subsidiary undertakings will be capitalised adequately and will meet their contractual obligations.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments The Group has the following share-based payment arrangements: 1 Share Option Plan 2000 : Under this Plan, the Group grants market value share options over non-voting ordinary shares to executive Directors and other key employees.
Options usually become exercisable if the option holder remains with the Group for at least three years and, for executive Directors, the performance target has been met.
The performance target, in line with market practice, is that the Companys earnings per share growth defined as the earnings per ordinary share before any exceptional items, as derived from the Companys Annual Report and Accounts must be at least four per cent.
per annum above the increase in the Retail Price Index over the initial three-year period.
1 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1986 and the Share Option Plan 1999 : Options over non-voting ordinary shares were granted to executive Directors and other key employees.
In line with market practice at the time the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1986 was introduced, the vesting of these awards was not subject to performance conditions.
Under the Share Option Plan 1999 the performance target of all option holders, including executive Directors, was that the Companys earnings per share growth must be at least two per cent.
per annum above the increase in the Retail Price Index over a minimum five-year period.
This performance condition was in line with market practice at the time of the award.
The Group no longer grants awards under these former plans.
1 Equity Compensation Plan 2000 : Under this Plan, executive Directors and other key employees receive deferred bonus awards over either ordinary or non-voting ordinary shares, normally structured as rights to acquire shares at nil cost.
These awards are subject to forfeiture and will vest on the third anniversary provided the participant continues to be employed within the Group.
Further details are given in the remuneration report on page 30.
All of the above share-based payment arrangements involve a maximum term of ten years for each option granted and are settled through the transfer of assets of the Company, being the equity instruments of its ultimate parent, Schroders plc, to its employees.
Share Incentive Plan: Under this scheme approved by HM Revenue & Customs, eligible employees can purchase shares in the Company each month up to 1,500 per taxation year from their gross salary.
In April 2006, the Group began to match employee share purchases up to 50 per month.
These matching shares are effectively free shares awarded to the employee subject to their remaining in employment for one year.
1 Certain employees have been awarded cash-settled equivalents to these share-based awards.
The fair value of these awards is determined using the same methods and models used to value the equivalent equity-settled awards.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 37.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments continued a Share option plans Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their relative weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise price per share Options price per share Options At 1 January 726p 11,056,393 715p 16,318,802 Granted 1085p 36,866 Forfeited 492p 38,079 Exercised 740p 3,866,560 668p 4,154,782 Lapsed 856p 33,878 805p 1,106,414 At 31 December 718p 7,155,955 726p 11,056,393 Outstanding options immediately exercisable 716p 6,968,956 714p 8,833,078 The weighted average share price, at exercise date, of options exercised during the year was 11.73 2006: 10.78.
The fair value of options granted during the prior year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 0.1 million and the weighted average fair value was 2.51 per option.
b Equity Compensation Plan Under the Equity Compensation Plan, rights over 3,478,055 2006: 3,555,225 ordinary and 24,468 2006: 40,853 non-voting ordinary shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The weighted average fair value of 10.30 2006: 9.99 per ordinary and 9.49 2006: 9.47 per non-voting ordinary share was calculated using the market value of the shares at the grant date, discounted for dividends forgone over the average holding period of the award.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments continued c Cash-settled share-based awards The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based awards that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of the award to the employee on the date of exercise.
At 31 December 2007, the total carrying amount of liabilities arising from cash-settled share-based awards at the balance sheet date was 1.4 million 2006: 3.4 million.
The total intrinsic value at 31 December 2007 of liabilities for which the counterpartys right to cash or other assets had vested by that date was 1.0 million 2006: 1.2 million.
d Share Incentive Plan The employee monthly share purchase plan is open to most employees and provides free shares from the Group to match the employee purchase up to a maximum of 50 per month.
Pursuant to these plans the Group purchased 26,487 ordinary shares in 2007 2006: 20,371, at a weighted average share price of 11.46 2006: 9.91.
A charge of 0.3 million 2006: 0.2 million will be expensed over a vesting period of one year.
The Group recognised total expenses of 34.3 million 2006: 28.6 million arising from share-based payment transactions during the year of which 32.9 million 2006: 27.5 million were equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Events after the balance sheet date No events requiring disclosure under IAS 10 occurred after the balance sheet date.
Related party transactions a Transactions between related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties, excluding compensation, are disclosed below: 2007 Interest Amounts owed Amounts owed Revenues receivable Expenses by related parties to related parties mn mn mn mn mn Associates 2.2 0.5 0.5 Key management personnel 0.1 4.3 2006 Interest Amounts owed Amounts owed Revenues receivable Expenses by related parties to related parties mn mn mn mn mn Associates 1.0 0.3 Key management personnel 0.1 1.0 1.2 Transactions with related parties were made at market rates.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense for bad or doubtful debts has been recognised in the year in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
b Key management personnel compensation The remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 mn mn Short-term employee benefits 17.5 12.7 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.6 Other long-term benefits 4.2 3.3 Share-based payments 6.4 5.7 28.4 22.3 The remuneration of key management personnel is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market rates.
The remuneration policy is described in more detail in the remuneration report on pages 27 and 28.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 40.
Acquisitions On 28 February 2007, the Group acquired 99.7 per cent.
of the issued share capital of Aareal Asset Management GmbH AAM for a consideration of 27.7 million.
This transaction has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The net assets acquired in the transaction, and the goodwill arising, are as follows: Carrying value immediately Fair value Provisional prior to acquisition adjustments fair value mn mn mn Net assets acquired: Goodwill 4.9 4.9 Intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax 0.1 1.6 1.7 Current financial assets 16.1 16.1 Cash at bank 6.2 6.2 Trade and other receivables 4.5 4.5 Current financial liabilities 12.4 12.4 Trade and other payables 2.1 2.1 Taxation 0.4 0.4 Less: Minority interests 0.1 0.1 17.4 3.3 14.1 Goodwill 11.0 Intangible assets 2.6 27.7 Satisfied by: Cash 27.7 Total consideration 27.7 1 Includes acquisition costs of 0.9 million.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of AAM is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the property fund business acquired.
The intangible assets represent values attributed to existing contractual arrangements between AAM and the funds it manages see note 11.
The result contributed by AAM and its subsidiaries in the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date was a loss of 0.5 million before tax.
If the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2007, an aggregation of the Groups gross profit for the year and that of the acquiree would have been 960.6 million, and the profit before tax for the year on the same basis would have been unchanged at 392.5 million.
These figures include a deduction for the additional amortisation charge of 0.1 million that would have arisen had the acquisition taken place at that date.
Acquisitions and disposals of consolidated funds As described in note 1 b, the Group is in a position whereby it could control a number of its own funds in which it has seed capital investments.
These funds are consolidated unless they are designated as being held for sale.
During the year, a number of funds fell under the control of the Group and were consolidated as acquisitions.
Similarly, a number of funds ceased to be controlled by the Group in the year and were deconsolidated as they were either deemed to be disposals as a result of the dilution of the Groups existing holdings or the investments were sold.
Net assets acquired on the acquisition of a controlled fund impact on the Groups balance sheet to the extent that the Group consolidates the net assets of the minority interests and records a non-equity minority interest creditor equal to this value.
The net assets acquired in the table below therefore represent those assets acquired attributable to minority interests.
Net assets disposed of when a previously consolidated fund ceases to be controlled by the Group represent either the disposal for cash of an existing investment or the deemed disposal through dilution of those net assets formerly attributable to minority interests of the Group.
Details of such assets and liabilities acquired and disposed of during the year are as follows: Acquisitions Disposals Net mn mn mn Cash 2.8 0.9 1.9 Debt securities 6.9 1.9 5.0 Equities 28.7 16.6 12.1 Non-equity minority interests see note 34 38.4 19.4 19.0 The acquisitions give rise to an initial cash outflow representing the purchase of the investments.
Such cash flows are recorded within net purchases of proceeds from current asset investments for the purposes of the Groups consolidated cash flow statement.
Disposals only have a related cash flow effect where the Group sells its investment in a fund.
Such cash flows are recorded within net purchases of proceeds from current asset investments.
In the majority of cases, there will be a deemed disposal: the Group will not sell its investment, but will cease to have control of a fund as a result of other investors holdings exceeding that of the Group.
Details of cash flows in the year arising from the acquisition and disposal of controlled funds are as follows: mn Acquisitions of controlled funds 45.4 Disposals of controlled funds 1.2 Net purchase of controlled funds 44.2 The effect on the income statement of disposals of controlled funds is nil in respect of retained profits.
Schroders plc balance sheet 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Notes mn mn Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 47 2,585.0 2,585.0 Deferred tax 51 1.5 5.9 Retirement benefit scheme assets 5 42.5 16.8 2,629.0 2,607.7 Current assets Financial assets 48 0.1 Trade and other receivables 49 45.7 75.1 Cash and cash equivalents 50 8.7 4.8 54.5 79.9 Total assets 2,683.5 2,687.6 Equity Called-up share capital 57 294.5 293.9 Share premium account 57 58.1 36.4 Other reserves 59 1,350.7 1,334.5 Retained profits 60 855.0 670.4 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,558.3 2,335.2 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax 51 1.7 Trade and other payables 54 11.9 6.1 13.6 6.1 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 52 0.4 Provisions 53 2.5 3.9 Trade and other payables 54 109.1 342.0 111.6 346.3 Total equity and liabilities 2,683.5 2,687.6 Approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2008.
Michael Dobson Directors } Bruno Schroder Financial accounts Schroders plc statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 92 93 2007 2006 Notes mn mn Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 60 6.6 5.6 Tax on items taken directly to equity 45 b, 60 1.0 0.7 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 5.6 6.3 Profit loss for the year 264.6 20.6 Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 270.2 14.3 Schroders plc cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 mn mn Operating profit loss 273.6 15.8 Adjustments for: Decrease in trade and other receivables 62.7 1.1 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 234.4 175.3 Decrease in financial liabilities 0.4 3.9 Increase in financial assets 0.1 Defined benefit scheme credit 19.1 2.4 Share-based payments expensed 2.0 2.8 Amounts received in respect of group tax relief 10.2 9.2 Interest paid 14.5 8.5 Interest received 1.7 1.6 Net cash from operating activities 81.7 159.4 Financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 28.7 27.8 Acquisition of own shares 16.7 72.8 Disposal of own shares 19.2 37.3 Disposal of ordinary share capital 34.1 84.3 Dividends paid 74.9 63.4 Net cash from financing 77.8 155.4 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.9 4.0 Opening cash and cash equivalents 4.8 0.8 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.9 4.0 Closing cash and cash equivalents 50 8.7 4.8 Financial accounts Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 94 95 42.
Significant accounting policies The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by that Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards which comprise standards and interpretations approved by either the International Accounting Standards Board or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or their predecessors, which had been approved by the European Commission as at 31 December 2007.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of financial assets and liabilities that are held at fair value through profit or loss.
This valuation is in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Act not to present its own income statement.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in note 1 Summary of accounting policies except as noted below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Revenues and expenses 2007 2006 mn mn Included in revenues: Net gains losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 0.1 Net losses on foreign exchange 0.1 0.4 Included in administrative expenses: Salaries and other remuneration 14.7 10.7 Social security costs 2.5 2.7 Other pension income costs see note 44 0.2 6.0 Employee benefits expense 17.0 19.4 The average number of employees employed by the Company during the year was: Average 2007 2006 Number Number Full-time employees 12 12 The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 0.6 million 2006: 0.3 million.
Fees relating to further assurance services were nil in the year 2006: nil.
2007 2006 mn mn Included in net finance income: Interest receivable on loans to subsidiaries not at fair value through profit or loss 1.1 1.9 Bank interest receivable not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 Other interest receivable on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 0.5 Interest receivable and similar income 1.7 1.9 Interest payable on loans from subsidiaries not at fair value through profit or loss 14.5 13.1 Interest payable on bank overdrafts 0.1 Other interest payable on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 Interest payable and similar charges 14.6 13.2 44.
Retirement benefit obligations The expense borne for pension costs represents the charge for the year in respect of the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Full details of the Scheme can be found in note 5.
Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 45.
Tax income expense 2007 2006 a Analysis of tax credit in year mn mn Current tax: Current income tax credit group relief 8.6 8.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years group relief 0.2 0.1 Total current tax 8.8 8.1 Deferred tax credit: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.0 1.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 0.3 Effect of changes in UK corporation tax rate 0.3 Total tax credit for the year 4.1 6.5 2007 2006 b Analysis of charge credit to equity mn mn Current income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards 0.4 2.0 Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension scheme 2.0 1.7 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards current year 0.8 0.4 Deferred tax effect of changes in UK corporation tax rate 0.2 Tax charge credit reported in equity 1.0 0.7 c Factors affecting tax credit for the year The current tax credit for the year is lower 2006: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30 per cent..
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 mn mn Profit loss before tax 260.8 27.1 Profit loss before tax multiplied by corporation tax at the UK standard rate of 30% 2006: 30% 78.2 8.1 Effects of: Non-taxable income net of disallowable expenses 83.1 1.8 Prior year adjustments 0.7 0.2 Movements in unrecognised deferred tax 0.5 UK tax on profits of overseas entities after double tax relief 1.7 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of changes in UK tax rate 0.3 Total tax credit for year 4.1 6.5 46.
Dividends Details of the Companys dividends paid and proposed for approval at Annual General Meeting can be found in note 8.
Investments in subsidiaries mn At 1 January and 31 December 2007 2,585.0 48.
Financial assets 2007 2006 Fair value Fair value through profit through profit or loss or loss mn mn Forward foreign exchange contracts maturing in less than 1 year see note 55 0.1 Financial accounts 96 97 49.
Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 Current Current mn mn Trade and other receivables held at amortised cost: Loans and advances to subsidiaries 45.7 75.1 The carrying amount of the trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 mn mn Cash at bank and in hand 8.7 4.8 The book value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28 per cent.
reflecting the rate expected to be applicable at the time the net deferred tax liability is realised 2006: 30 per cent..
The movement on the net deferred tax account is as shown below: 2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 5.9 8.8 Income statement expense 4.4 1.6 Charge taken to equity 1.2 1.3 Effect of changes in UK tax rates income statement expense 0.3 Effect of changes in UK tax rates taken to equity 0.2 At 31 December 0.2 5.9 Temporary differences including Tax losses bonuses and carried pension costs forward Total a Deferred tax assets mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 4.7 1.2 5.9 Income statement credit expense 5.1 0.3 4.8 Charge taken to equity 1.3 1.3 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2007 1.5 1.5 At 1 January 2006 9.0 2.4 11.4 Income statement expense 0.5 1.4 1.9 Charge taken to equity 1.3 1.3 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 2.6 2.6 Prior year adjustments 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2006 4.7 1.2 5.9 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 51.
Deferred tax continued Temporary differences including bonuses Total b Deferred tax liabilities mn mn At 1 January 2007 Transfer from deferred tax assets 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2007 1.7 1.7 At 1 January 2006 2.6 2.6 Transfer to deferred tax assets 2.6 2.6 At 31 December 2006 All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities.
The net deferred tax provision at 31 December 2007 was a liability 0.2 million 2006: asset 5.9 million.
Financial liabilities 2007 2006 Fair value Fair value through profit through profit or loss or loss mn mn Forward foreign exchange contracts maturing less than 1 year see note 55 0.1 Debt securities in issue 0.3 53.
Provisions Total mn At 1 January 2007 3.9 Provisions utilised 1.4 At 31 December 2007 2.5 The amount represents the balance of a provision in respect of matters covered by indemnification obligations under the terms of the sale of the investment banking business in 2000.
Details are not given as the Directors feel that to do so may prejudice the Company.
Trade and other payables 2007 2006 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Social security 1.0 5.1 6.1 2.1 2.5 4.6 Accruals 8.9 6.8 15.7 6.8 3.6 10.4 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 98.9 98.9 333.1 333.1 Other liabilities 0.3 0.3 109.1 11.9 121.0 342.0 6.1 348.1 The carrying amount of the financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates their fair value.
2007 2006 mn mn Maturing repricing whichever is earlier in: Less than one year 109.1 342.0 1 2 years 5.9 3.1 2 3 years 6.0 3.0 11.9 6.1 121.0 348.1 Financial accounts Financial accounts 98 99 99 55.
Derivative contracts 2007 2006 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities mn mn mn mn mn mn Forward foreign exchange contracts maturing in less than 1 year 3.4 0.1 3.7 0.1 The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The Company holds derivatives for risk management purposes only.
The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes.
The Company holds currency forwards which represent commitments to purchase foreign and domestic currency, including undelivered spot transactions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the fair value of the contracts.
The contracts are being used to hedge provisions that are held both at a Group level and within the Company.
These provisions are denominated in US dollars.
The carrying amounts of the Companys derivative contracts are denominated in US dollars.
Financial instrument risk management The risk management processes of the Company are aligned with those of the Group as a whole.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are outlined in Risk management and internal control within the Governance section on page 41 and in note 28.
The Companys specific risk exposures are explained below.
Credit risk The Company has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
The Companys counterparties are predominately its subsidiaries and therefore there is no external credit risk exposure.
The Companys cash and cash equivalents is invested in accounts with well-rated UK and overseas banks.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
The Groups liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding, meet all obligations as they fall due and maintain solvency.
The Group has investment capital which is invested in fixed income and money market portfolios.
The Company manages its liquidity risk by utilising this surplus through intergroup loans when they are required to meet current liabilities.
The Companys interest rate risk is limited.
Assets and liabilities attracting interest rates are cash balances and intercompany loans, both of which are at floating rate, therefore outright interest rate risks arises mainly from the decision to allow a mismatch between the cash flows.
At 31 December 2007, if Bank of England interest rates had been 200 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.3 million lower higher 2006: 3.9 million lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on intercompany loans and cash balances: other components of equity would have been unaffected.
The following underlying assumption was made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits: the fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Companys exposure to foreign exchange risk has been hedged using currency forwards as detailed in note 55.
Pricing risk Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Company has no exposure in this area.
Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 57.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital can be found in note 30 to the accounts.
At 31 December 2007, the trusts held 4,367,479 2006: 6,610,454 non-voting ordinary shares costing 38.1 million 2006: 56.9 million, with a market value of 51.0 million 2006: 69.1 million.
In addition, the trusts held 4,443,217 2006: 3,224,308 ordinary shares costing 46.4 million 2006: 32.6 million, with a market value of 57.9 million 2006: 36.0 million.
Other reserves Own shares held Capital reserves Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 71.9 1,406.4 1,334.5 Shares cancelled 2.7 2.7 Own shares purchased 16.7 16.7 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 15.9 15.9 Transfers 14.3 14.3 At 31 December 2007 58.4 1,409.1 1,350.7 Own shares held Capital reserves Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2006 44.0 1,401.2 1,357.2 Shares cancelled 5.2 5.2 Own shares purchased 72.8 72.8 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 34.1 34.1 Transfers 10.8 10.8 At 31 December 2006 71.9 1,406.4 1,334.5 Financial accounts Financial accounts 100 101 101 60.
Retained profits reserve 2007 2006 mn mn At 1 January 670.4 800.8 Profit loss after tax 264.6 20.6 Dividends 74.9 63.4 Retained profit loss for the year after dividends 189.7 84.0 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 6.6 5.6 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1.0 0.7 Net income recognised directly in equity 5.6 6.3 Share-based payments 30.8 22.0 Cancellation of non-voting ordinary shares 30.4 61.4 Net gains losses on disposals of own shares 3.2 2.5 Transfers 14.3 10.8 At 31 December 855.0 670.4 61.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments Details of the Companys awards to employees of rights to share-based payments can be found in note 37.
Related party transactions a Transactions between related parties Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, and transactions between the Company and other related parties, excluding compensation, are disclosed below.
2007 Interest Interest Amounts owed Amounts owed receivable payable Expenses by related parties to related parties mn mn mn mn mn Subsidiaries of the Company 1.1 14.5 45.7 98.9 Key management personnel 0.1 4.1 2006 Interest Interest Amounts owed Amounts owed receivable payable Expenses by related parties to related parties mn mn mn mn mn Subsidiaries of the Company 1.9 13.1 41.9 333.1 Key management personnel 0.3 0.9 Transactions with related parties were made at market rates.
b Key management personnel compensation The remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 mn mn Short-term employee benefits 10.2 8.6 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Other long-term benefits 2.9 2.7 Share-based payments 4.2 4.2 17.4 15.7 The remuneration policy is described in more detail in the remuneration report on pages 27 and 28.
Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 63.
Subsidiary undertakings The following information is given in respect of those subsidiary undertakings which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the consolidated profits or assets of the Company.
They are all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company except where shown and their issued share capital consists of equity shares and other classes of shares where indicated.
All undertakings operate in the countries where they are registered or incorporated except where shown.
All companies are engaged in the business of asset management, private banking or private equity or are holding companies.
England Denmark New Finance Capital LLP Schroder Investment Management Fondsmaeglerselskab A S NewFinance Capital Partners Limited Schroder Administration Limited Germany Schroder & Co. Limited Schroder Investment Management GmbH Schroder Financial Services Limited Schroder Property Investment Management GmbH Schroder International Holdings Limited Schroder Investment Company Limited Hong Kong SAR Schroder Investment Management Limited Schroder Investment Management Hong Kong Limited Preference shares Schroder Investment Management North America Limited Schroder Investments Limited Indonesia Schroder Property Investment Management Limited PT Schroder Investment Management Indonesia 99.0 per cent.
Schroder Unit Trusts Limited Schroder Pension Management Limited Italy Leadenhall Securities Corporation Limited Schroders Italy SIM S. p. A. Schroder Middle East Limited Schroder Ventures Holdings Limited Japan Schroder Ventures Investment Company Limited Schroder Investment Management Japan Limited Argentina Korea Schroder Investment Management S. A. Schroders Korea Limited Australia Luxembourg Schroders Australia Holdings Pty Limited Schroder Investment Management Luxembourg S. A.
Preference shares Bermuda Mexico Schroder Finance Bermuda Limited Schroder Investment Management, S. A. Schroder International Holdings Bermuda Limited fide c. v. Sociedad Operadora fide Sociedadas fide Inversion Schroder Venture Managers Inc. Schroders Bermuda Limited Netherlands Schroder Investments Bermuda Limited Schroder International Finance B. V. Schroder Investment Management Benelux N. V. Brazil Schroder Investment Management Brazil DTVM S. A. Singapore Schroder Investment Management Singapore Limited Channel Islands Schroder Investments Singapore Pte Limited Burnaby Insurance Guernsey Limited Schroder Capital Investments Singapore Limited Schroder Investments Guernsey Limited Preference shares Switzerland Schroder Investment Management Guernsey Limited Schroder & Co Bank AG Schroder Property Managers Jersey Limited Schroder Venture Managers Guernsey Limited United States of America Preference shares.
Internet Finance Partners L. P. 68.3 per cent.
Limited Schroder Investment Management North America Inc. Schroder US Holdings Inc. A full list of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Schroders plc to be filed with the Registrar of companies.
Held directly by the Company.
