Notice of Annual General Meeting Under section 234B of the Companies Act they have served nine or more years on the Important information 1985 as amended, the Directors must board.
This applies to George Mallinckrodt This notice of meeting contains important prepare an annual report detailing the and Bruno Schroder and they each offer information and requires your attention.
remuneration of the Directors and the themselves for re-election.
A profile of If you are in any doubt as to what action Companys remuneration policy for each Director is contained on page 21. to take you should consult with an Directors.
The Act also requires that a The Board supports the re election of appropriate adviser.
resolution be put to shareholders each George Mallinckrodt in view of his many Notice is hereby given that the 2008 year for their approval of that report.
years of international business experience.
Annual General Meeting of Schroders plc The Directors remuneration report can The Board also believes that it is appropriate will be held at 31 Gresham Street, London be found on pages 27 to 37.
This notice for Bruno Schroder, as the representative of EC2V 7QA on Thursday, 24 April 2008 at therefore contains a resolution to approve the Companys principal shareholder group, 11.30 a. m. to transact the following the remuneration report for the year ended to be re-elected.
The result of this The Chairman confirms that, following resolution is advisory only.
the completion of the Board performance Resolutions evaluation process for 2007, the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Re-election of Directors no later performance of each of the Directors resolutions numbered 1 to 15 as Ordinary than the third Annual General standing for re-election continues Resolutions requiring a majority of more Meeting following last election to be effective and demonstrates than 50 per cent.
and resolutions 16 or re-election resolutions 4 to 8 commitment to his respective role.
and 17 as Special Resolutions requiring 4.
That Michael Dobson, who retires Accordingly, the re-election of each a majority of not less than 75 per cent.. in accordance with Article 87, be of these Directors is recommended.
re-elected as a Director of the Company.
In the opinion of the Directors, all of the 5.
That Jonathan Asquith, who retires resolutions proposed are in the best Auditors resolutions 11 and 12 in accordance with Article 87, be interests of shareholders and consequently 11.
That  LLP re-elected as a Director of the Company.
the Directors recommend that shareholders be reappointed as auditors of the 6.
That Massimo Tosato, who retires vote in favour of each resolution.
Company to hold office from the in accordance with Article 87, be conclusion of this meeting until the re-elected as a Director of the Company.
Report and Accounts conclusion of the next general meeting 7.
That Andrew Beeson, who retires 1.
That the Directors report and the at which accounts are laid before the in accordance with Article 87, be Accounts of the Company for the year Company in accordance with section re-elected as a Director of the Company.
ended 31 December 2007 be received 241 of the Companies Act 1985.
That Sir Peter Job, who retires and adopted.
That the Directors be authorised in accordance with Article 87, be to fix the remuneration of For each financial year the Directors are re-elected as a Director of the Company.
 LLP required to present the Directors report Under Article 87 of the Companys Articles as auditors of the Company.
and the Accounts of the Company for adoption by shareholders.
Accordingly, of Association, Directors must retire and The Companys auditors must offer the Report and Accounts for the year may offer themselves for re-election not themselves for reappointment at each ended 31 December 2007 are now later than the third Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting at which accounts presented and proposed for adoption.
following his or her election or last reare presented.
Accordingly, the Board, on election to the Board.
Michael Dobson, the recommendation of the Audit Final dividend Jonathan Asquith, Massimo Tosato, Committee, proposes the reappointment 2.
That a final dividend of 21.0 pence per Andrew Beeson and Sir Peter Job are of  LLP as the share on the ordinary shares and on retiring from office under this Article and Companys auditors.
Resolution 12 the non-voting ordinary shares as offer themselves for re-election.
A profile authorises the Directors to agree the recommended by the Directors be of each Director is contained on pages 20 remuneration of  declared payable on 30 April 2008 and 21.
The Board supports the re-election LLP for their services as auditors.
to shareholders on the register on of these Directors.
Authority to allot shares Re-election of Directors having The payment of the final dividend 13.
That the Directors be and are hereby served more than nine years on of 21.0 pence per share in respect of the generally and unconditionally authorised the Board resolutions 9 and 10 year ended 31 December 2007, which to exercise all powers of the Company 9.
That George Mallinckrodt, who retires is recommended by the Board, requires to allot relevant securities up to having served more than nine years as an aggregate nominal amount of the approval of shareholders in general a Director, be re-elected as a Director of 5,000,000, which authority shall meeting.
That Bruno Schroder, who retires conclusion of the next Annual General Remuneration report having served more than nine years as Meeting of the Company after the 3.
That the remuneration report for a Director, be re-elected as a Director passing of this resolution whichever is the year ended 31 December 2007 of the Company.
earlier unless previously revoked or be approved.
In accordance with the Companys varied by the Company in general Corporate Governance Guidelines, which meeting, save that the Company may reflect the provisions of the Combined Code before such expiry make an offer or on Corporate Governance, non-executive agreement which would or might Directors must retire and may offer require relevant securities to be allotted themselves for re-election annually once after such expiry and the Directors may Notice of Annual General Meeting 104 105 allot relevant securities in pursuance Political donations and expenditure Equity Compensation Plan of such an offer or agreement as if 14.
That pursuant to section 366 of the 15.
That the proposed amendments to the authority conferred hereby had Companies Act 2006 the Company the Schroders Equity Compensation not expired.
For the purposes of this and all companies that are subsidiaries Plan 2000 marked on the copy of the authority, the expression relevant of it at any time during the period for rules of the Plan initialled by the securities shall mean relevant which this resolution shall have effect Chairman for the purposes of securities as defined in section 80 be and are hereby authorised to: identification be approved and the of the Companies Act 1985 as Directors be authorised to do all such a make political donations to political amended, but shall not in any things as are necessary to carry them parties or independent election circumstances include ordinary shares into effect.
candidates not exceeding 50,000 as defined in the Companys Articles in total: This resolution seeks shareholders of Association or any right to subscribe approval to a change in the Companys b make political donations to political for, or to convert any security into, Equity Compensation Plan 2000 the ECP organisations other than political ordinary shares.
and to the terms of existing unexercised parties not exceeding 50,000 in Under the Companies Act, the Directors awards.
The ECP was approved by total: and may not allot unissued shares in the shareholders at an extraordinary general c incur political expenditure not Company without the authority of meeting held on 30 November 2000 exceeding 50,000 in total, shareholders in general meeting, except for following the disposal of the Groups the issue of shares under the Companys provided that the aggregate amount investment banking business.
More share or share option plans.
If approved by of any such donations and expenditure details about the ECP can be found in shareholders, this resolution would renew shall not exceed 50,000 during the the Remuneration Report on page 30. the authority given by shareholders at the period beginning with the date of the Currently, subject to continued 2007 Annual General Meeting and permit passing of this resolution and ending employment, awards under the ECP over the Directors to issue non-voting ordinary on 24 April 2012 or, if sooner, at the the Companys shares may normally be shares or rights to subscribe for, or convert conclusion of the Annual General exercised between three and ten years securities into, non-voting ordinary shares Meeting of the Company to be held after grant.
Entitlement to the full award up to an aggregate nominal amount of in 2012. arises on the fifth anniversary.
The authority would not For the purpose of this resolution neither any addition to the original award permit the Directors to issue ordinary the terms political donations, after the fifth anniversary see page 30 of shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, independent election candidates, the remuneration report nor any entitlement or convert securities into, ordinary shares.
political organisations and political to dividends, there is a disincentive for The maximum amount of the authority is expenditure have the meanings set employees to retain shares in the ECP equal to approximately 1.7 per cent.
of the out in sections 363 to 365 of the after that date.
It is therefore proposed Companys total issued share capital and Companies Act 2006. that each award should be adjusted to approximately 7.5 per cent.
of its issued reflect the value of dividends paid on These resolutions concern Part 14 of non voting ordinary share capital, in each shares during the period starting with the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
case as at 10 March, being the latest the fifth anniversary and ending on the The authorities granted in 2004 under practicable date prior to the publication date of exercise.
The Directors believe the equivalent provisions of the Companies of this document.
The Company does proposed change, which is in accordance Act 1985 expire shortly before the 2008 not currently hold any shares in treasury.
with the guidelines of the Association of Annual General Meeting.
Any donations The authority given in this resolution would British Insurers, will better align participants to political organisations in excess of an expire on the earlier of 1 May 2009 and interests with those of shareholders and aggregate of 5,000 or any political the conclusion of the next Annual General encourage longer term share ownership expenditure by the Company and its Meeting of the Company.
Except for the by employees.
This proposed change, if subsidiaries must be authorised by the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under approved, is not expected to result in any Companys shareholders.
Whilst the the Companys share or share option material additional cost to the Company.
Group and its subsidiaries did not make plans, the Directors do not presently intend any donations to political parties in the The adjustment will be made by assuming to allot any unissued shares.
The Directors last financial year and do not intend to that the dividends and the associated tax do, however, consider that it would be do so in the current one, the resolutions credits paid on shares on and after the appropriate to have the flexibility to make are intended to authorise normal expenditure date this resolution is passed have been limited issues of non-voting ordinary which, in view of the wider definitions under reinvested in purchasing additional shares shares or to grant rights to subscribe Part 14 of the Act, may be construed as at or about each dividend payment date for, or convert securities into, non-voting political expenditure or as a donation to and adding such shares to the award ordinary shares.
This flexibility could a political organisation.
If the Remuneration Committee be required, for example, should the do not purport to authorise any particular so decides it may on exercise of an award Company wish to use non-voting donation or expenditure but are in general pay the participant the cash equivalent of ordinary shares as consideration for terms as required by the Act.
Any donations the additional shares.
or expenditure in excess of 200, falling within the ambit of the definitions, are required to be disclosed in the Companys Annual Report in compliance with the Companies Act 1985 or the Act.
Notice of Annual General Meeting If passed, this resolution would renew Authority to purchase own shares Amendments to Articles of the Companys general authority to 16.
That the Company be and is Association make purchases of its non-voting hereby generally and unconditionally 17.
That the Articles of Association of the ordinary shares.
This authority relates authorised to make market purchases Company be amended by the adoption to 14,650,000 shares, representing within the meaning of section 163 3 of of the amendments to Articles 7, 8, 57, approximately 5 per cent.
of the the Companies Act 1985 as amended 60, 65, 67, 75, 78, 79, 97, 108, 130, Companys total issued share capital and of non-voting ordinary shares of 1 134, 140, 142 and 144: the deletion of 21.8 per cent.
of its issued non-voting each Shares, subject to the following Articles 3, 49, 50, 51, 53, 56, 72, 99, ordinary share capital.
The authority sets conditions: 133 and 143: and the adoption of new limits on the price which may be paid for Articles 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 and 140, a such authority be limited to a any shares and is limited to market together with consequential remaximum number of 14,650,000 purchases on the London Stock Exchange numbering and cross-referencing Shares: or so far as required under the Listing amendments, highlighted in the revised b in the case of purchases made Rules market purchases by tender offer print of the Articles of Association otherwise than by tender offer, to all shareholders.
initialled by the Chairman for the the maximum price, exclusive of purposes of identification.
Since the previous authority was renewed expenses, at which Shares may at the last Annual General Meeting on The Companys Articles of Association be purchased is the higher of: 24 April 2007, 2,517,561 non-voting were adopted in 2000 and last amended i 5 per cent.
above the average of ordinary shares have been purchased and in April 2007.
It is proposed to amend the the middle market quotations for cancelled at a total cost of 25,612,125.
Articles of Association primarily to take the Shares as derived from the As at the date of this notice of meeting account of changes in company law London Stock Exchange Daily there were 7,141,915 options outstanding brought about by the provisions of the Act.
Official List for the five business over non-voting ordinary shares.
This As the Act is being implemented in stages, days preceding the date of represented 2.4 per cent.
of the total it is likely that the Company will need to purchase: and issued share capital and 10.6 per cent.
propose further amendments to the Articles ii the higher of the price of the last of the issued non-voting ordinary share of Association at the 2009 Annual General independent trade and the highest capital at that date and would represent Meeting in order to take account of the current independent bid on the 2.6 per cent.
of the total issued share changes in the law that are expected to London Stock Exchange at the capital and 13.6 per cent.
of the issued come into force on 1 October 2009. time the purchase is carried out: non-voting ordinary share capital c in the case of a tender offer, the The principal changes in the Articles if the Company were to purchase the maximum price, exclusive of of Association are described below.
maximum number of shares allowed expenses, at which Shares may References below to Article numbers are, under this general authority.
above except where stated, to the relevant Article In recent years, this authority has been the average of the middle market in the current Articles.
Certain other used with a view to maintaining the ratio changes of a minor, technical or clarifying quotations for the Shares as derived of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary nature and also some minor changes that from the London Stock Exchange shares over the medium term, taking into merely reflect changes made by the Act Daily Official List for the five account the issue of non-voting ordinary are not noted below as they are not business days preceding the date shares under the Companys share or considered material.
A copy of the on which the tender offer is share option plans.
This policy was amended Articles of Association, showing announced: extended in 2007 to take into account the all of the changes proposed, is available d the minimum price at which Shares issue of any non-voting ordinary shares for inspection, as noted on page 108. may be purchased is 1 per share, pursuant to the authority contained in exclusive of expenses: and resolution 13.
In addition, purchases may Form of resolution e such authority shall, unless renewed also be undertaken at the Directors It is proposed to delete Article 3 in its prior to such time, expire at the discretion, where they consider them to be entirety as the concept of extraordinary conclusion of the next Annual otherwise appropriate.
Purchases under resolutions has not been retained under General Meeting of the Company this authority would only be made where the Act and public companies can no save that the Company may before the Directors believed that they were in the longer pass written resolutions.
As the such expiry enter into a contract to best interests of the Company, taking into remainder of the provision is reflected in purchase Shares which would or account other available investment full in the Act, the Article can be removed might be completed or executed opportunities and the overall financial in its entirety.
References to extraordinary wholly or partly after its expiry and position of the Group, and where earnings resolutions in Articles 7, 8, 56 and 65 are may make a purchase of Shares in per share would be increased except also being removed or amended.
pursuance of any such contract.
possibly in respect of purchases made in relation to the issue of non-voting ordinary Convening of meetings shares under the Companys share or It is proposed to delete Articles 49, 50, 51 share option plans.
If the Company were and 53, which deal with the convening of to purchase any non-voting ordinary general meetings and the length of notice shares pursuant to this authority, the required, in their entirety as the relevant Directors would consider whether to matters covered by these Articles are cancel those shares or subject to the provided for in the Act.
In particular an limits allowed by company law hold extraordinary general meeting to consider them as treasury shares.
a special resolution can now be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 106 107 The opportunity has also been taken to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
The amended Article also provides remove the distinction between special First, only Directors who have no interest in that where a notice or document is sent and ordinary business by the deletion of the matter being considered will be able to or supplied by means of a website it is Article 56. take the relevant decision, and secondly, in treated as having been received by the taking the decision the Directors must act intended recipient a when the material Votes of members in a way they consider, in good faith, will was first made available on the website, Under the Act, proxies are now entitled to be most likely to promote the Companys or b if later, when the recipient received vote on a show of hands whereas under success.
The Directors will be able to or is treated as having received notice the current Articles proxies of individual impose limits or conditions when giving of the fact that the material was available members are only entitled to vote on a authorisation if they think this is on the website.
Under the Act, multiple proxies may appropriate.
be appointed provided that each proxy is Governing law It is also proposed that the Articles of appointed to exercise the rights attached It is also proposed to amend the Articles Association should contain provisions to a different share held by the shareholder.
by inserting an express provision that the relating to confidential information, Articles 57, 67, 72, 75 and 78 have been governing law applicable to the Articles is attendance at Board meetings and amended to reflect these new provisions.
availability of Board papers to protect a Director from being in breach of duty Indemnification of directors Proxy forms if a conflict of interest or potential conflict Articles 97 and 144 were amended in A proxy form is enclosed to enable of interest arises.
These provisions will 2007 when the relevant provisions of the shareholders unable to attend the meeting only apply where the position giving rise Act were not yet in force to reflect the fact to cast their votes at the Annual General to the potential conflict has previously that the Act has in some areas widened Meeting by post or online, or by appointing been authorised by the Directors.
The the scope of the powers of a company to someone else to attend, speak and vote Board will report annually on the indemnify directors and to fund expenditure on their behalf.
Companys procedures for ensuring that incurred in connection with certain actions the Boards powers of authorisation of against directors.
It is now proposed to By Order of the Board conflicts are operated effectively and that make some further amendments to Articles the procedures have been followed.
97 and 144 to refer more generally to the relevant provisions and also to make clear Graham Staples Notice of Board meetings that the receipt of an indemnity or the Company Secretary Under the Companys Articles of Association, provision of Directors and officers liability Registered office: when a Director is abroad he can request insurance are permitted benefits.
The 31 Gresham Street that notice of Directors meetings are sent indemnities given to Directors and the London EC2V 7QA to him at a specified address and if he does Company Secretary following the not do so he is not entitled to receive notice Companys Annual General Meeting in 10 March 2008 while he is away.
It is proposed to remove 2007 will be unaffected by these changes.
this provision from Article 108, as modern communications methods mean that there Conflicts of interest are no particular obstacle to giving notice to It is proposed to delete Article 99 and add a Director who is abroad.
new Articles 92, 93, 94, 95, and 96 to reflect new provisions in the Act regarding Records to be kept conflicts of interest.
The Act sets out The provisions in Article 133 requiring the Directors general duties and largely codify Board to keep accounting records and the the existing law, but with some changes.
provision in Article 134 stating where these From 1 October 2008 a Director must records are to be kept can be removed as avoid a situation where he has, or can these requirements are now contained in have, a direct or indirect interest that the Act.
conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is Email and web communications very broad and could apply, for example, Article 140 currently provides that any if a Director becomes a Director of notice or document sent by the Company another company or a trustee of another using electronic communications is treated organisation.
The Act allows Directors of as having been received on the day after public companies to authorise conflicts the day on which it was sent.
The Article and potential conflicts where the Articles also provides that a notice or other of Association contain a provision to this document placed on the Companys effect.
It is therefore proposed that the website is treated as having been received Articles of Association give the Directors on the day after the day on which a notice explicit authority to approve such situations of availability was sent.
It is proposed to and to include other provisions to allow amend these provisions in order to conflicts of interest to be dealt with in conform them with current best practice a similar way to the current position.
guidance from the Institute of Chartered The Company already has processes for Secretaries and Administrators.
Under dealing with potential and actual conflicts.
the amended Article, where a notice or These safeguards will continue to apply document is sent by email, the email is when Directors decide whether to deemed to be delivered on the day that it Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes 8.
As at 10 March 2008 being the last business ii if more than one corporate representative for 1.
Ordinary shareholders entitled to attend and vote day prior to the publication of this Notice the the same corporate shareholder attends the at the meeting are entitled to appoint a proxy to Companys issued share capital consists of meeting but the corporate shareholder has exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to 226,022,400 ordinary shares, carrying one vote not appointed the Chairman of the meeting vote on their behalf at the meeting.
An ordinary each, and 67,075,921 non-voting ordinary shares as its corporate representative, a designated shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in in issue.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, corporate representative will be nominated, relation to the Annual General Meeting provided the total voting rights in the Company as at from those corporate representatives who that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 10 March 2008 are 226,022,400. attend, who will vote on a poll and the other attached to a different share or shares held by that corporate representatives will give voting shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder 9.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy directions to that designated corporate of the Company.
A proxy form for ordinary or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy representative.
Corporate shareholders are shareholders which may be used to make appointment service may do so by using the referred to the guidance issued by the Institute such appointment and give proxy instructions procedures described in the CREST Manual.
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators accompanies this notice.
Non-voting ordinary CREST Personal Members or other CREST on proxies and corporate representatives shareholders have no right to attend or vote sponsored members, and those CREST members www.
uk for further details of this at the Annual General Meeting.
who have appointed a service provider s, should procedure.
The guidance includes a sample refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service form of representation letter if the Chairman 2.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument provider s, who will be able to take the is being appointed as described in i above.
appointing a proxy must be received by post or appropriate action on their behalf.
during normal business hours only by hand at 14.
Profiles of each of the Directors offering themselves the Companys registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, 10.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction for election or re-election are on pages 20 and Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL made using the CREST service to be valid, the 21 of this report.
The profiles include, where no later than 48 hours before the time fixed for appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy appropriate, membership of Board Committees.
Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications, and 15.
The following documents are available for 3.
Ordinary shareholders who prefer to register the must contain the information required for such inspection at the Companys registered office appointment of their proxy electronically via the instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
during normal business hours on weekdays and internet can do so at www.
co. uk The message, regardless of whether it constitutes will be available for inspection at least 15 minutes where full instructions are given.
The personal the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment prior to and during the meeting: Articles of reference number, card ID and account number to the instruction given to a previously appointed Association: proposed amendments to the Articles printed on the proxy form will be required.
proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so of Association see resolution 17 : and Directors Alternatively ordinary shareholders who have already as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RAO1 service contracts or letters of appointment.
registered with Equinitis Shareview service can by 11.30 a. m. on 22 April 2008.
For this purpose, appoint their proxy by logging on to their portfolio the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as 16.
In the event that you have sold or transferred at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company determined by the timestamp applied to the your shares in the Company, you should pass Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically message by the CREST Application Host from this Annual Report and Accounts to the person will not be valid if sent to any email address other which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the through whom the sale or transfer was made than those provided or if received after 11.30 a. m. message by enquiry to CREST in the manner for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Any communication found to prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee 4.
The return of a completed proxy form, other through other means.
such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 10 below will not 11.
CREST members and, where applicable, their prevent a shareholder attending the Annual CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should General Meeting and voting in person if he she note that Euroclear does not make available wishes to do so.
special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations 5.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of a person nominated under section 146 of the CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights the CREST member concerned to take or, if the a Nominated Person may, under an agreement CREST member is a CREST personal member, between him her and the shareholder by whom or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting he she was nominated, have a right to be service provider, to procure that his CREST appointed or to have someone else appointed sponsor or voting service provider s take s such as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a action as shall be necessary to ensure that a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment message is transmitted by means of the CREST right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, system by any particular time.
In this connection, under any such agreement, have a right to give CREST members and, where applicable, their instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise CREST sponsors or voting system providers are of voting rights.
referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations 6.
The statement of the rights of ordinary shareholders of the CREST system and timings.
in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to 12.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out paragraphs can only be exercised by ordinary in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual 13.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate General Meeting and for the purpose of the representatives at the meeting, arrangements determination by the Company of the votes will be put in place at the meeting so that: they may cast, ordinary shareholders must be i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the registered in the Register of Members of the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate Company at 6.00 p. m. on 22 April 2008 or, in the representative with instructions to vote on event of any adjournment, 6.00 p. m. on the date a poll in accordance with the directions of all which is two days before the time of the adjourned of the other corporate representatives for that meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in those corporate representatives will give voting determining the rights of any person to attend directions to the Chairman and the Chairman and vote at the meeting.
will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and
