FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information environmentally friendly and, for many, is How to Invest Share Register Enquiries convenient too.
The paragraphs below The Companys shares are traded on the Computershare Investor Services PLC explain how you can use these services.
They can be bought maintains the share register on behalf of by placing an order with a stockbroker, by the Company.
In the event of queries Electronic Communications If you would asking a professional adviser to do so, or regarding shares registered in your own like to take advantage of this service, through the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles name, please contact the Registrars on please visit our Registrars website at see inside back cover for details.
They also offer a free, www-uk.
You will need your secure share management website service shareholder reference number which is Sources of Further Information on which allows you to: on your share certi cate and tax voucher the Company view your share portfolio and see the to hand.
If you then agree to the terms The price of shares is quoted daily in the latest market price of your shares: and conditions, in future, on the day Financial Times and can also be found on that documents are sent to shareholders calculate the total market price of each the Baillie Gifford website at by post, you will receive an e-mail shareholding: www.
com, Trustnet at providing the website address link to www.
co. uk and on other financial view price histories and trading graphs: the documents.
After you register, paper websites.
Company factsheets are also documents will be available on request.
update bank mandates and change available on the Baillie Gifford website and Electronic Proxy Voting You can address details: and are updated monthly.
These are available also return proxies electronically at from Baillie Gifford on request.
If you have registered for electronic To take advantage of this service, please log Key Dates communications you will be issued in at www-uk.
com investor Ordinary shareholders normally receive two a PIN number to use when returning and enter your Shareholder Reference dividends in respect of each financial year.
proxies to the secure Registrar website.
Number and Company Code this An interim dividend is paid at the end of You do not need to register for electronic information can be found on the last November and a final dividend is paid in communications to use electronic proxy dividend voucher or your share certi cate.
The AGM is normally held in late voting, paper proxy forms will contain June or early July.
a PIN number to allow you to return Electronic Communications and proxies electronically.
Proxy Voting Capital Gains Tax If you hold stock in your own name you If you have any questions about these For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, can choose to receive communications services please contact Computershare the market value adjusted for the bonus from the Company, and vote, in electronic on 0870 707 1300. issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share in the format.
This method reduces costs, is Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45
