Investment trusts offer If you are a user of the CREST system Past performance is no guarantee of future investors the following: including a CREST Personal Member, performance.
Participation in a diversi ed portfolio of you may appoint one or more proxies or The value of your investment and any income shares.
give an instruction to a proxy by having an from it is not guaranteed and may go down appropriate CREST message transmitted.
Constant supervision by experienced as well as up and you may not get back the To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction professional managers.
This is because the share to a proxy whether previously appointed price is determined by the changing conditions The Company is free from capital gains or otherwise via the CREST system, the in the relevant stockmarkets in which the Trust tax on capital pro ts realised within its CREST message must be received by the invests and by the supply and demand for portfolio although investors are still liable issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later the Trusts shares.
You should regard your for capital gains tax on pro ts when than 48 hours before the time appointed investment as medium to long term.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to These accounts have been approved the time as determined by the timestamp make further investments.
This is commonly by the Directors of Scottish Mortgage generated by the CREST system from which referred to as gearing.
The risk is that, when Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings the issuers agent is able to retrieve the this money is repaid by the Trust, the value of Management Limited is the ISA Manager message.
CREST Personal Members or other these investments may not be enough to cover of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA, CREST sponsored members should contact the borrowing and interest costs, and the Trust the PEP Manager of the Baillie Gifford their CREST sponsors for assistance with will make a loss.
If the Trusts investments fall Investment Trust PEP, the Manager of the appointing proxies via CREST.
For further in value, gearing will increase the amount of Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share information on CREST procedures, limitations the loss in value to investors.
The more highly Plan and Childrens Savings Plan and and systems timings, please refer to the geared the Trust, the greater this effect will be.
the promoter of the Baillie Gifford Select CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as Pension.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited is As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST the provider, trustee and administrator of the securities changes in the rates of exchange in the circumstances set out in Regulation Alliance Trust Personal Pension Plan through may also cause the value of your investment 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities which the Baillie Gifford Select Pension is and any income it may pay to go down Regulations 2001.
Baillie Gifford Savings or up.
Services PLC is authorised and regulated by Management Limited is wholly owned by the Financial Services Authority.
The value of tax reliefs will depend on your Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised personal circumstances and tax rates and and regulated by the Financial Services Where this has been received in a country reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides where the provision of such a service would PEPs, could change at any time in the future.
information about its products and does be contrary to local laws or regulations, this not provide investment advice.
The staff of should be treated as information only.
Baillie Gifford and the Directors may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage and may buy or sell such shares subject to Baillie Giffords personal account dealing rules.
