STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing In preparing those financial statements, the The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report and the financial Directors are required to: proper accounting records that disclose statements in accordance with applicable with reasonable accuracy at any time the select suitable accounting policies and law and regulations.
financial position of the Company and then apply them consistently: enable them to ensure that the financial Company law requires the Directors to make judgements and estimates that are statements comply with the Companies Act prepare financial statements for each reasonable and prudent: 1985.
They have general responsibility financial year.
Under that law they have for taking such steps as are reasonably state whether applicable UK accounting elected to prepare the financial statements in open to them to safeguard the assets of the standards have been followed, subject accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Company and to prevent and detect fraud to any material departures disclosed and The financial statements are required by law and other irregularities.
explained in the financial statements: to give a true and fair view of the state of and Under applicable law and regulations, the affairs of the Company and of the pro t or directors are also responsible for preparing prepare the financial statements on loss of the Company for that period.
the going concern basis unless it is a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration inappropriate to presume that the Report and Corporate Governance Company will continue in business.
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Notes The following notes relate to financial statements published on a website and are not included in the printed version of the Annual Report and Accounts: The maintenance and integrity of the Baillie Gifford & Co website is the responsibility of Baillie Gifford & Co: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27
