ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE C A L L T L I H O G E C ON LT A A R N C L P R O A D NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the of ces of Public Transport By Rail: Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away.
Omni If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please Cinema JOHN call us on 0800 027 0133.
Calton Square LEWIS Baillie Gifford may record your call.
ST. JAMES BUS CENTRE STATION Parking available under Calton Square THISTLE & Thistle Hotel HOTEL BALMORAL HOTEL Access to Waverley Train Station on foot EDINBURGH WAVERLEY STATION Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninetyTo consider and, if thought t, to pass the the 5 business days immediately eighth Annual General Meeting of Scottish following resolutions as Special Resolutions: preceding the date of purchase and Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be b the higher of the price of the last 10.
That, in substitution for any existing held within the Registered Of ce of the independent trade and the highest authority under section 166 of the Company, Calton Square, 1 Greenside current independent bid as stipulated Companies Act 1985 the Act, but Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, on Wednesday, by Article 5 1 of Commission without prejudice to the exercise of 27 June 2007 at 4.00 pm for the following Regulation EC 22 December 2003 any such authority prior to the date purposes: implementing the Market Abuse hereof, the Company be authorised, Directive as regards exemptions in accordance with section 166 of the Ordinary Business for buy-back programmes and Act, to make market purchases within stabilisation of financial instruments To consider and, if thought t, to pass the meaning of section 163 3 of the No 2273 2003 : and the following resolutions as Ordinary Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in Resolutions: d unless previously varied, revoked the capital of the Company either for or renewed by the Company in retention as treasury shares for future 1.
To receive and approve the Accounts of general meeting, the authority sale or cancellation Shares, provided the Company for the year to 31 March hereby conferred shall expire at the that: 2007 with the Reports of the Directors conclusion of the Annual General and of the Auditors thereon.
a the maximum aggregate number Meeting of the Company to be held of Shares hereby authorised to be 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration in 2008 or 26 December 2008, purchased shall be 14.99% of the Report for the year to 31 March 2007. whichever is the earlier, save that the issued ordinary share capital on Company may, prior to the expiry of 3.
the date on which this resolution is such authority, enter into a contract passed: 4.
To reappoint Sir Donald MacKay, or contracts to purchase Shares who has reached the age of 70, as a b the minimum price which may be under such authority which will or Director of the Company.
paid for a Share shall be 25p might be completed or executed exclusive of expenses : wholly or partly after the expiration 5.
To re-elect Mr GA Ball as a Director.
of such authority and may make a c the maximum price exclusive of 6.
To re-elect Lord Strathclyde as a Director.
purchase of Shares pursuant to any expenses which may be paid such contract or contracts.
for a Share shall be an amount 7.
To re-elect Mr JPHS Scott as a Director.
equal to the higher of a 105% of 11.
That, the Directors of the Company 8.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the average of the middle market be and they are hereby generally Independent Auditors.
quotations as derived from the empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Daily Of cial List of the London Companies Act 1985 the Act to sell 9.
To authorise the Directors to determine Stock Exchange for the Shares for relevant shares as fide ned in sections the remuneration of the Independent 94 2 to 94 3A and section 94 5 of Auditors.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 O E O Q U E E N S T R E E T L GEORGE STREET R E A 8 P R I N C E S S T R E E T WAT L LEITH WALK E E N I S I D E T H S T R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notes the Act in the Company if, immediately and shall expire at the conclusion of before the sale, such shares are held the next Annual General Meeting of the 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more by the Company as treasury shares as Company to be held in 2008 or on proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his fide ned in section 162A 3 of the Act 26 December 2008, whichever is the her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member treasury shares for cash as fide ned earlier, save that the Company may, of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use in section 162D 2 of the Act as if before such expiry, make any offer or of members is enclosed and to be valid must subsection 1 of section 89 of the Act enter into an agreement which would be lodged with the Registrar of the Company did not apply to any such sale, provided or might require treasury shares to be not later than 48 hours before the time set for that this power shall be limited to: sold after the expiry of such power, and the meeting.
the Directors of the Company may sell 2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the a the sale of treasury shares in treasury shares in pursuance of such Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, connection with a rights issue in the Company speci es that only those offer or agreement as if the power favour of the holders of ordinary shareholders entered on the Register of conferred hereby had not expired.
shares of 25p each in the Company Members of the Company as at 4.00 pm Shares where the equity securities By order of the Board on 25 June 2007 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register of respectively attributable to the Baillie Gifford & Co Members 48 hours before the time of any interests of all such shareholders Managers and Secretaries adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend are proportionate as nearly as may 24 May 2007 or vote at the meeting in respect of the be practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares registered in their number of Shares held or deemed name at that time.
Changes to the entries on or notionally held by them but the Register of Members after 4.00 pm on 25 June 2007 or, in the event that the subject to such exclusions or other meeting is adjourned, in the Register of arrangements as the Directors deem Members 48 hours before the time of any necessary or expedient in relation adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in to fractional entitlements or to deal determining the rights of any person to attend with problems under the laws, or or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any requirements of, any regulatory body provisions in any enactment, the Articles of or stock exchange in any territory: Association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
and 3 Shareholders participating in the Baillie b the sale of treasury shares other Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens than pursuant to paragraph a of Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment this resolution of up to an aggregate Trust ISA PEP who wish to vote and or nominal value of 7,036,529 attend the meeting must complete and return being 10% of the Companys issued the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
Share capital as at 14 May 2007: 4 In accordance with section 293 of the Companies Act 1985 special notice has been given to the Company of the resolution to reappoint a Director who is over the age of 70.
5 No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Scottish Mortgages shares are traded on Baillie Giffords Investment Trust the London Stock Exchange.
They can be PEP Transfer bought through a stockbroker, by asking a You can transfer an existing PEP to access a professional adviser to do so, or through the different market or to change your investment Baillie Gifford savings vehicles.
Baillie Giffords Investment Trust Baillie Gifford Select Pension Share Plan The Baillie Gifford Select Pension, provided You can invest from 250 or from 30 per by Alliance Trust Savings Limited is a selfmonth.
The plan is designed to be a costinvested personal pension.
The minimum effective way of saving on a regular or lump contribution is 50 per month.
Further Information Baillie Giffords Investment Trust ISA Client Relations Team Baillie Gifford Savings You can invest in a tax ef cient way by Management Limited investing a minimum of 2,000 or from Calton Square 250 per month or by transferring an ISA 1 Greenside Row with a value of at least 2,000 from your EDINBURGH EH1 3AN existing manager.
Tel: 0800 027 0133 We may record your call Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com A cost-effective plan tailored especially to Website: www.
com meet the requirements to save for children.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 You can invest a minimum of 250 or from 30 per month.
Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Auditor Chairman: Computershare Investor The Bank of New York UBS Investment Bank KPMG Audit Plc Sir Donald MacKay Services PLC 1 Finsbury Avenue Saltire Court MA FRSE FRSGS PO Box 82 London EC2M 2PP 20 Castle Terrace The Pavilions Edinburgh GA Ball FCA Bridgwater Road EH1 2EG Dr MM Gray OBE DL Bristol BS99 7NH WG McQueen BSc CA FCIBS Tel: 0870 707 1300 JPHS Scott FCII FSI The Rt Hon Lord Strathclyde PC Company registration No.
7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Of ce Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
