NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies The financial statements for the year to 31 c Income losses on the repurchase or early settlement March 2007 have been prepared on the of debt is wholly charged to capital.
i Income from equity investments is basis of the accounting policies set out in brought into account on the date on f Taxation the Companys Annual Financial Statements which the investments are quoted exat 31 March 2006.
The tax effect of different items of income dividend or, where no ex-dividend date and expenditure is allocated between is quoted, when the Companys right to The Directors consider the Companys revenue and capital on the same basis as receive payment is established.
functional currency to be sterling as the the particular item to which it relates, under Companys shareholders are predominantly ii Interest from xed interest securities is the marginal method, using the Companys based in the UK and the Company is recognised on an effective interest rate effective tax rate for the accounting period.
subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing iii Franked income is stated net of tax a Basis of Accounting differences, calculated at the current tax rate credits.
The accounts are prepared under the relevant to the bene t or liability.
Deferred historical cost convention, modi ed to tax assets are recognised only to the extent iv Unfranked investment income includes include the revaluation of xed asset that it will be more likely than not that there the taxes deducted at source.
investments, and on the assumption that will be taxable pro ts from which underlying v Interest receivable on deposits is approval as an investment trust will continue timing differences can be deducted.
recognised on an accruals basis.
g Foreign Currencies vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends The accounts have been prepared in Transactions involving foreign currencies are in cash, the net amount of the cash accordance with applicable UK accounting converted at the rate ruling at the time of the dividend declared is credited to the standards and with the Statement of transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign revenue account.
Any excess in the Recommended Practice Financial Statements currencies are translated at the closing rates value of the shares received over the of Investment Trust Companies issued in of exchange at the balance sheet date.
amount of the cash dividend foregone 2003, revised 2005.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in is recognised as capital.
exchange rate subsequent to the date of the In order to re ect better the activities of transaction is included as an exchange gain d Expenses the trust and in accordance with guidance or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve issued by the AIC, supplementary All expenses are accounted for on an as appropriate.
information which analyses the pro t and accruals basis.
Expenses are charged loss account between items of a revenue through the revenue account except as h Capital Reserves and capital nature has been presented in follows: where they relate directly to the i Capital Reserves Realised: the Income Statement.
acquisition or disposal of an investment, Gains and losses on realisation of in which case they are added to the cost Financial assets and financial liabilities are investments and realised exchange of the investment or deducted from the sale recognised in the Companys balance sheet differences of a capital nature are dealt proceeds and where they are connected when it becomes a party to the contractual with in this reserve.
Purchases of the with the maintenance or enhancement of the provisions of the instrument.
Companys own shares for cancellation value of investments, in which case they are are also funded from this reserve.
b Investments charged 50:50 to the revenue account and 50% of management fees, including realised capital reserve.
Purchases and sales of investments are related VAT, and finance costs are accounted for on a trade date basis.
All allocated to the realised capital reserve e Long Term Borrowings and Finance investments are designated as fair value in accordance with the Companys Costs through pro t or loss.
The fair value of listed objective of combining capital and Long term borrowings are carried in the investments is bid value, or in the case of income growth.
balance sheet at the cumulative amount FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded prices of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued ii Capital Reserves Unrealised: issued by the London Stock Exchange.
finance costs attributable to the stepped Unrealised appreciation represents the Listed investments include Open Ended amount by which assets and liabilities interest debentures.
The finance costs of Investment Companies OEICs authorised such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to the valued at fair value differs from their book in the UK: these are valued at closing price revenue account and realised capital reserve value and is dealt with in this reserve.
and are classi ed for valuation purposes at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
according to the principal geographical Issue costs are written off at a constant rate area of the underlying holdings.
over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and The fair value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, determined by the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, stockbroker valuations, net asset values and other information, as appropriate.
