NOTES TO ACCOUNTS investment activities provides opportunities Market Risk 19 Directors Interest in Contracts for both market appreciation and currency The Company is exposed to market risk No Director has a contract of service with gains, but leaves it exposed to the risk of due to uctuations in the market prices of the Company.
market volatility and currency uctuations.
The Companys managers the case of an investment trust, capital pro ts actively monitor market and economic data During the year no Director was interested from investing activities and currency gains and report to the Board, which considers in any contract or other matter requiring are prohibited from being distributed in the investment policy on a regular basis.
disclosure under section 232 of the form of dividends.
Interest Rate Risk Gearing The Company nances its operations by 20 Contingencies, Guarantees and The Company has long term and short term means of called-up share capital, realised Financial Commitments borrowings.
The aim of the use of gearing is capital pro ts, retained revenue reserves, to enhance long term returns to shareholders bank borrowings and the issue of debenture At the year end the Company had a by investing borrowed funds in equities and stocks.
The value of the Companys bond contingent liability amounting to 10 million other assets.
portfolio is subject to interest rate risk.
It is 2006 10 million under a subscription How and where borrowings are invested is not the Companys policy to hedge this risk.
agreement relating to participating loan reviewed by the Board in consultation with notes.
The obligation will expire on 31 The Company has negotiated short term the Managers at every Board meeting.
In December 2010. multi-currency borrowing facilities at interest light of the decisions made, appropriate rates linked to LIBOR and may draw down adjustments to the gearing position are funds for periods up to 3 years.
21 Summary of Main Investment then made by the Managers.
Details of borrowings and where they are invested is Restrictions The Company has issued a mix of stepped given in monthly Factsheets published on the and xed interest debenture stocks.
The as incorporated within the Investment Managers website, www.
stepped interest debenture stocks have Management Agreement between the reached their final step and are deemed to The Company has been given an Aaa Issuer Company and Baillie Gifford & Co be xed.
Rating by Moodys, the highest possible rating.
Issuer Ratings are opinions of the Holding size Credit Risk ability of entities to honour senior unsecured At the time of investment, a maximum In addition to interest rate risk, the financial obligations and contracts.
of 8% of total assets may be invested in Companys investments in bonds are also any one holding.
This restriction does not The Companys income may be affected subject to credit risk.
Credit risk re ects apply to investment in collective investment by uctuations in short term interest rates: the possibility that a borrower will not schemes, issues by way of rights or certain income from overseas investment can be be able to meet its obligation to make government bonds.
payments of interest or principal when they fall due.
The Managers analyse the credit A maximum of 40% of total assets may be The Companys financial instruments, which risk of the Companys bond investments invested in holdings exceeding 3% of the provide finance for investment activities, prior to purchase and continue to monitor value of the Companys total assets.
Again, comprise its debenture stocks, its long developments in credit quality subsequently.
this restriction does not apply to collective and short term borrowings, and its cash investment schemes, issues by way of rights and liquid resources.
In addition to the Liquidity Risk or certain government bonds.
equity portfolio, the Company maintains The Companys policy with regard to investments in UK and overseas corporate Categories of investment liquidity is to ensure continuity of funding.
bonds as part of its investment strategy.
Short term exibility is achieved by overdraft No investment shall be made on which there The Company may, from time to time, enter facilities.
into derivative transactions to hedge speci c The Companys assets comprise mainly currency or interest rate risk.
No such The Managers must seek permission of readily realisable securities which can be the Board to invest in collective investment transactions were undertaken in the year.
sold freely to meet funding commitments if schemes managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Company has precisely fide ned necessary.
guidelines to govern the purchase or writing Transactions in futures and options must be consistent with Inland Revenue guidelines so of options on individual shares.
No options Foreign Currency Risk as to ensure maintenance of the Companys were purchased or written in the year.
The international nature of the Companys Trading in financial instruments is not within Investment Trust status.
investment activities gives rise to a currency the normal activities of an investment trust, risk which is inherent in the performance nor is it the Companys policy to trade in 22 Derivatives, Other Financial of its overseas investments.
It is not the such instruments.
Transactions in financial Companys policy to hedge this risk on a Instruments and Risk Exposure instruments generally arise as a result of continuing basis, but the Company may strategic investment decisions.
The Company operates as an investment from time to time match speci c overseas trust company in accordance with section investment with foreign currency borrowings The Companys Managers may not enter 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes or otherwise hedge the exposure in a into derivative transactions without the prior Act 1988.
As such, the Company is temporary basis.
approval of the Board, and all borrowing exempt from capital gains tax on the sale facilities require Board authorisation.
The The Companys overseas income is subject of its investments.
The Managers monitor Board agrees policies for managing risk to currency uctuation.
The Company does investment movements, the level of forecast with the Companys Managers.
The main not hedge this currency risk.
income and expenditure and the amount risks arising from the Companys financial of proposed dividends to ensure that the instruments are market risk as noted above, provisions of section 842 are not breached.
interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and The international nature of the Companys foreign currency risk.
