INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements Year Summary and the Ten Year Record Respective Responsibilities of of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC that is cross referenced from the Business Directors and Auditors for the year ended 31 March 2007 which Review section of the Directors Report.
We The Directors responsibilities for preparing comprise the Income Statement, Balance also report to you if, in our opinion, the the Annual Report, the Directors Sheet, Reconciliation of Movements in Company has not kept proper accounting Remuneration Report and the financial Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow records, if we have not received all the statements in accordance with applicable Statement and the related notes.
These information and explanations we require for law and UK Accounting Standards UK financial statements have been prepared our audit, or if information speci ed by law Generally Accepted Accounting Practice under the accounting policies set out therein.
regarding Directors remuneration and other are set out in the Statement of Directors We have also audited the information in transactions is not disclosed.
Responsibilities on page 27. the Directors Remuneration Report that is We review whether the Corporate Our responsibility is to audit the financial described as having been audited.
Governance Statement re ects the statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys Companys compliance with the nine Remuneration Report to be audited in members, as a body, in accordance with provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined accordance with relevant legal and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Code speci ed for our review by the Listing regulatory requirements and International Our audit work has been undertaken so that Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
we might state to the Companys members and we report if it does not.
We are not We report to you our opinion as to those matters we are required to state to required to consider whether the Boards whether the financial statements give a true them in an auditors report and for no other statements on internal control cover all risks and fair view and whether the financial purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted and controls, or form an opinion on the statements and the part of the Directors by law, we do not accept or assume effectiveness of the Companys corporate Remuneration Report to be audited have responsibility to anyone other than the governance procedures or its risk and been properly prepared in accordance Company and the Companys members as control procedures.
We also a body, for our audit work, for this report, or We read the other information contained report to you whether in our opinion the for the opinions we have formed.
in the Annual Report and consider whether information given in the Directors Report is it is consistent with the audited financial consistent with the financial statements.
We consider the implications information given in the Directors Report for our report if we become aware of includes the speci c information presented any apparent misstatements or material in the Chairmans Statement, the Managers inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Review, the One Year Summary, the Five Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinion Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance In our opinion: with International Standards on Auditing UK the financial statements give a true and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and fair view, in accordance with Board.
An audit includes examination, on UK Generally Accepted Accounting a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Practice, of the state of the Companys amounts and disclosures in the financial affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its statements and the part of the Directors return for the year then ended: Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also the financial statements and the part of includes an assessment of the signi cant the Directors Remuneration Report to be estimates and judgments made by the audited have been properly prepared directors in the preparation of the financial in accordance with the Companies Act statements, and of whether the accounting 1985: and policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as KPMG Audit Plc to obtain all the information and explanations Chartered Accountants which we considered necessary in order to Registered Auditor provide us with suf cient evidence to give Edinburgh reasonable assurance that the financial 15 May 2007 statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29
