Section 05 Financial statements 115 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Shareholder information and Advisers Dividends Auditor Multiple Accounts on the Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
KPMG Audit Plc Shareholder Register The proposed final dividend in respect 2 Cornwall Street If you have received two or more sets of of the year to 31 December 2007 Birmingham the documents concerning the Annual will be payable on 20 June 2008 to B3 2DL General Meeting this means that there those shareholders on the register on is more than one account in your name on 25 April 2008.
Banker the shareholder register, perhaps because National Westminster Bank plc either your name or your address appear A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will 16 South Parade on each account in a slightly different also be offered.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not NG1 2JX amalgamate the accounts without your For those shareholders who prefer not written consent, so if you would like any to participate in the DRIP, arrangements Joint Brokers multiple accounts combined into one can be made to pay your dividends Morgan Stanley account, please write to Equiniti at the automatically into your bank or building 25 Cabot Square address given on this page.
This service has a number Canary Wharf of benefits London Shareview Electronic Communications E14 5QA www.
co. uk is a service offered there is no chance of the dividend by Equiniti that enables you to check cheque going missing in the post Oriel Securities your holdings in many UK companies and the dividend payment is received more 125 Wood Street helps you to organise your investments quickly as the cash is paid directly into London electronically.
You can also notify Equiniti your account on the payment date EC2V 7AN of a change of address or a change to without the need to wait for the dividend mandate instructions.
You can cheque to clear Financial Adviser register for this portfolio service which is you will help Carillion to improve its Lazard easy to use, secure and free as long as you efficiency by reducing printing and 50 Stratton Street have access to the internet by logging on cheque clearing costs.
co. uk and following a W1J 8LL simple registration process.
If you wish to register for this service, please call Equiniti on the number below Legal Adviser Electronic Proxy Appointments to request a dividend mandate form.
Slaughter and May For the AGM to be held on 7 May 2008, One Bunhill Row you may, if you wish, register the Results London appointment of a proxy electronically by Half year to 30 June 2008: announced EC1Y 8YY logging on to the website August 2008. www.
Share Registrar Full year to 31 December 2008: Equiniti You will need your voting reference announced March 2009.
Aspect House numbers the three eight-digit numbers Spencer Road shown on your form of proxy.
Shareholder Enquiries Lancing Alternatively, if you have registered for Equiniti maintains the share register of West Sussex a Shareview portfolio, log on to your the Company.
If you have any queries BN99 6DA portfolio at www.
co. uk and concerning your shareholding, or if click on Company Meetings.
any of your details change, please Share Dealing Service contact Equiniti: Carillion offers its UK shareholders Please note that any electronic Shareview Dealing, a telephone and communication that is found to contain Equiniti internet share sale service operated by a computer virus will not be accepted.
For telephone sales call 0845 603 Spencer Road 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, ShareGift Lancing Monday to Friday, and for internet sales ShareGift is a charity share donation West Sussex log on to www.
scheme for shareholders, administered BN99 6DA You will need your shareholder reference by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is number as shown on your share certificate.
especially for those who may wish to Telephone 0871 384 2522 dispose of a small parcel of shares whose Textphone for shareholders with value makes it uneconomic to sell on a hearing difficulties 0871 384 2255 commission basis.
Further information can be obtained at www.
