211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:15 Page 120 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 1.
Accounting policies Basis of Preparation St Jamess Place plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and whose shares are publicly traded.
The Company offers a range of insurance, investment and other wealth management services through its subsidiaries, which are principally incorporated in the UK and Ireland.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The Company has elected to continue to prepare the parent financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In publishing the parent company financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of these financial statements.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting Policies.
In accordance with FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available.
Significant Accounting Policies a Investment return Investment return comprises dividends from subsidiaries, which are accounted for when received.
b Taxation Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
c Investment in subsidiaries Investment in subsidiaries are carried at cost, plus the cost of share awards, in the Company granted by the Companys subsidiaries.
d Receivables Other receivables are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses.
e Other creditors and amounts owed to Group undertakings.
Other creditors and amounts owed to Group undertakings are stated at amortised cost.
120 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007
