211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:15 Page 129 Notes to the European Embedded Value Basis I.
Basis of preparation The supplementary information on pages 126 to 136 shows the Groups results as measured on a European Embedded Value EEV basis.
This includes results for the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business.
The valuation is undertaken by the Group on a basis determined in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum, a group of chief financial officers from 19 major European insurers, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles.
The treatment of all other transactions and balances is unchanged from the primary financial statements on an IFRS basis.
The objective of the EEV basis is to provide shareholders with more realistic information on the financial position and performance of the Group than that provided by the IFRS basis.
Under the EEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of the products within the covered business.
The embedded value of the covered business is the sum of the shareholders net worth in respect of the covered business and the present value of the projected profit stream.
Methodology a Covered business The covered business is the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group.
b Calculation of EEV on existing business Profit from existing business comprises the expected return on the value of in-force business at the start of the year plus the impact of any changes in the assumptions regarding future operating experience, plus changes in reserving basis other than economic assumption changes, plus profits and losses caused by differences between the actual experience for the period and the assumptions used to calculate the embedded value at the end of the period.
c Allowance for risk The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature of the EEV Principles.
The EEV Principles set out three main areas of allowance for risk in the embedded value: the risk discount rate: the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: and the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional capital required.
The reported EEV allows for risk via a risk discount rate based on a bottom-up market-consistent approach, plus an appropriate additional margin for non-market risk.
The Group does not offer products that carry any significant financial guarantees or options.
d Non-market risk Best estimate assumptions have been established based on available information and when used within the market consistent calculations provide the primary evaluation of the impact of non-market risk.
However, some non-market operational risks are not symmetric, with adverse experience having a higher impact on the EEV than favourable experience.
Allowance has been made for this by increasing the risk discount rate by 0.8%.
129 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007
