211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:14 Page 91 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 18.
Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk through the issuance of insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks.
Risk management objectives and risk policies The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk to accept where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives and seeks to manage insurance risk through the use of reassurance, reviewable terms, regular review of pricing and underwriting controls.
The insurance liabilities have a contractual maturity of up to one year and the liquidity risk in respect of the insurance liabilities is mitigated through holding a high level of liquid assets.
Terms and conditions The terms and conditions of the insurance contracts offered by the Group determine the level of risk accepted by the Group.
The general terms and conditions of the main insurance contracts and the associated risks are set out in the table below.
The Group has no with-profit contracts.
Category Essential Terms Main Risks Policyholder Guarantee Unit linked reviewable Deductions from units Expense No significant assurances pay for benefits.
guarantees Deductions are reviewable at any time Conventional Regular premiums pay Mortality, morbidity, Premium level reviewable assurances for benefits.
Premium expense guaranteed between level is reviewable every reviews fifth policy anniversary Conventional Premium level fixed Mortality, expense Premium and benefit guaranteed assurances throughout life level guaranteed 91 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:14 Page 92 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued Management of risks The table below summarises the main risks to which the insurance business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for Experience is monitored regularly.
For a risk, or the impact of anti-selection most business the premium or deduction rates can be re-set Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of claims Protection is provided through arising from a single incident or event reassurance Expense Administration costs exceed Administration is outsourced and expense allowance the contract monitored regularly Persistency Loss of product margins due to higher Monitoring of lapse rates and than anticipated lapses investigation of unexpected experience 92 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007
