Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group are required to prepare the Group financial statements in and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also on the same basis.
responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance The Group and Company financial statements are required by Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and the performance of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the Group for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides of the corporate and financial information included on the in relation to such financial statements that references in the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
86 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007
