Accounting Policies Statement of compliance The purchase method of accounting is used to account for The Group financial statements consolidate those of the the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, Group, equity account the Groups interest in associates and equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed proportionately consolidate interests in jointly controlled entities.
at the date of exchange, together with costs directly attributable The parent company financial statements present information to the acquisition.
Identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
acquired are fair valued at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of Both the parent company financial statements and the Group acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the financial statements have been prepared and approved by the identiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting fair value of the net assets and contingent liabilities of the Interpretation Committee IFRIC Interpretations as adopted subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the by the EU together adopted IFRS.
In publishing the parent income statement.
Where the fair values of the identifiable net company financial statements together with the Group financial assets and contingent liabilities acquired have been determined statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption provisionally or where contingent or deferred consideration in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its is payable, any adjustments arising from their subsequent individual income statement and related notes that form a part finalisation are made as of the date of acquisition and amounts of these approved financial statements.
The Group has retrospectively adopted IFRIC 7 Applying the Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in on transactions between Group companies are eliminated Hyperinflationary Economies, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, IFRIC 9 in the Group accounts.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IFRIC 10 Interim unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the Financial Reporting and Impairment, none of which had an asset transferred.
impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Associates The Group has also adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Associates are all entities over which the Group has the ability Disclosures and the Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of to signicantly inuence the financial and operating policies Financial Statements Capital Disclosures and the disclosures and procedures, but not control, generally accompanying a required are presented within the Risk Review on pages 43 to shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the 59 and Capital on pages 60 to 61, except where indicated as voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the not audited, and the notes to the accounts.
equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2006 has The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identied been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154 to reflect on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
the revised fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired on the acquisitions of Union Bank and Hsinchu.
Certain items in the The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or Group and Company cash flow statements for the year ended 31 losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of December 2006 have been re-presented as explained in note 51. post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against Basis of preparation the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the cash-settled share based payments, available-for-sale assets, Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
value through profit or loss.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its The preparation of financial statements in conformity with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied Joint ventures consistently across the Group and to all periods presented Interests in jointly controlled entities are recognised using in these financial statements.
proportionate consolidation whereby the Groups share of Consolidation the joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses Subsidiaries are combined line by line with similar items in the Groups Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities financial statements.
over which the Group has the power to directly or indirectly Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures govern the financial and operating policies, generally In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which dividends from pre-acquisition profits received, if any.
the Group effectively obtains control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
com 93 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Foreign currency translation measured at fair value, which reflects market expectations of the Both the parent company financial statements and the Group probability that the future economic benefits embodied in the financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the asset will flow to the entity, and are amortised on the basis presentation currency of the Group and the functional and of their expected useful lives four to sixteen years.
At each presentation currency of the Company.
balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is Transactions and balances determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional is written down immediately.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the Computer software transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation at basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities specic software.
Costs associated with the development of denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income software are capitalised where it is probable that it will generate statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at future economic benefits in excess of its cost.
Computer historical exchange rates if held at historical cost, or year-end software costs are amortised on the basis of expected useful exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting foreign life three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At each statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of the gain or loss on the asset or liability.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is Group companies determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset The results and financial position of all the entities included in is written down immediately.
the Group financial statements that have a functional currency Property, plant and equipment different from the presentation currency are accounted for as Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and offices.
All follows: property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date: that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
income and expenses for each income statement are Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount translated at average exchange rates or at rates on the or are recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when date of the transaction where exchange rates fluctuate it is probable that future economic benets associated with the significantly: and item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged all resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 to the income statement during the financial period in which they are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the Land is not depreciated although it is subject to impairment translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a over their estimated useful lives, as follows: foreign operation is sold or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Buildings up to 50 years Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Equipment and motor vehicles 3 to 15 years entity and translated at the closing rate.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and Intangible assets adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each Goodwill balance sheet date, assets are also assessed for indicators of Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or associate at asset is written down immediately.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in Intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
associates is included in Investments in associates.
Goodwill is Leases assessed at each balance sheet date for impairment and carried Where a Group company is the lessee at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of leases.
The total payments made under operating leases are goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cashcharged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Acquired intangibles When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible has expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by assets which are deemed separable and that arise from contractual way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which or other legal rights are capitalised and included within the net termination takes place.
These intangible assets are initially 94 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1.
Accounting Policies continued Leases continued that benefits are vested and are otherwise recognised over Where the group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased the average period until benefits are vested on a straight-line assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and basis.
Current service costs and any past service costs, equipment with a corresponding liability to the lessor recognised together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities, in Other liabilities.
Finance charges payable are recognised over offset by the expected return on plan assets, are charged to the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the operating expenses.
lease to give a constant periodic rate of return.
Share-based compensation Where a Group company is the lessor The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based When assets are held subject to a finance lease, the present compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised difference between the gross receivable and the present value as an expense.
of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the net investment method before tax, which reects a the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market constant periodic rate of return ignoring tax cash flows.
vesting conditions for example, profitability and growth targets.
Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their prices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of market useful lives.
Rental income on these leased assets is recognised prices, the fair value of the instruments is estimated using an in the income statement on a straight-line basis unless another appropriate valuation technique, such as a binomial option pricing systematic basis is more representative.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to Cash and cash equivalents vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises equivalents comprise balances with less than three months the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the maturity from the date of acquisition, including: cash and income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity balances at central banks unless restricted, treasury bills and over the remaining vesting period.
For forfeitures prior to vesting other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term attributable to factors other than failure to satisfy market-based government securities.
performance conditions, the cumulative charge incurred is Provisions credited to the income statement.
Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of premium when the options are exercised.
resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and a liability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid amounts, Employee benets with any changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs in Pension obligations the income statement.
The Group operates a number of pension and other postretirement benefit plans around the world, including defined Taxation contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated publicly or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax contractual or voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted to operating expenses.
The Group has no further payment as at the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when obligations once the contributions have been paid.
the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred For defined benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance income tax liability is settled.
sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent differences can be utilised.
actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting Income tax payable on profits, based on the applicable tax law the estimated future cash outows using an interest rate equal in each jurisdiction, is recognised as an expense in the period in to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated which profits arise.
The tax effects of income tax losses available in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable a term to maturity approximating to the term of the related that future taxable profits will be available against which these pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged or shareholders equity and presented in the statement of credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to equity recognised income and expense in the period they arise.
and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent with the current or deferred gain or loss.
com 95 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Borrowings a group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their its performance evaluated on a fair value basis: or issue proceeds fair value of consideration received net of the assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings such derivatives are required to be recognised separately.
are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any difference b Loans and receivables between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets costs and the redemption value recognised in the income with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted statement over the period of the borrowings using the in an active market.
c Held-to-maturity Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets represents a market rate of interest at the issue date, or which are with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that redeemable on a specic date or at the option of the shareholder, the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to are classied as financial liabilities and are presented in other hold to maturity.
Were the Group to sell other than an insignicant borrowed funds.
The dividends on these preference shares are amount of held-to-maturity assets, the entire category would be recognised in the income statement as interest expense on an tainted and reclassied as available-for-sale.
amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
d Available-for-sale If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets balance sheet, and the difference between the carrying amount of intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be the liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
sold in response to liquidity requirements or changes in interest Share capital rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares Initial recognition or options, or to the acquisition of a business, are shown in equity Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
value through profit or loss, financial assets held-to-maturity and Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the available-for-sale are initially recognised on trade-date the date period in which they are declared.
on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at Group purchases the Companys equity share capital, the fair value plus, for those financial assets and liabilities not carried consideration paid is deducted from the total shareholders equity at fair value through profit and loss, directly attributable of the Group but not of the Company as treasury shares until transaction costs.
In those cases where the initially recognised they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or fair value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders are not observable in the market, the difference between the equity of the Group but not of the Company.
transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised Fiduciary activities immediately in the income statement.
The difference is amortised The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary to the income statement until the inputs become observable, capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on or the transaction matures or is terminated.
behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and Subsequent measurement other institutions.
The assets and income arising thereon Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and are excluded from these financial statements, as they are liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently not assets of the Group.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity Financial assets and liabilities excluding derivatives investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective The Group classies its financial assets in the following interest method.
categories: financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: The fair values of quoted financial assets or financial liabilities in loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments and availableactive markets are based on current prices.
If the market for a for-sale financial assets.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial asset or financial liability is not active, and for unlisted held at fair value through profit or loss, or at amortised cost.
securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation Management determines the classication of its financial assets techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length and liabilities at initial recognition.
transactions, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing a Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through models and other valuation techniques commonly used by profit or loss market participants.
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and Renegotiated loans liabilities held for trading, and those designated at fair value Loans whose original terms have been modified are considered through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset or liability renegotiated loans.
If the renegotiation occurs before a customer is classied as trading if acquired principally for the purpose is either past due or impaired and the revised terms are of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised consistent with those readily available in the market, the account as trading unless they are designated as hedges.
will not be considered past due.
If the renegotiations are on terms Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value that are not consistent with those readily available on the market, through profit or loss when: this provides objective evidence of impairment and the loan is assessed accordingly.
If the account was past due or impaired the designation eliminates or significantly reduces a prior to the renegotiation, the loan will remain past due until the measurement or recognition inconsistency that would customer complies with the revised terms for 12 months.
otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities on a different basis: or 96 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1.
Accounting Policies continued Financial assets and liabilities excluding derivatives financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified continued with specific individual financial assets.
Derecognition The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive impairment exists individually for financial assets that are cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the individually significant, and individually or collectively for Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of financial assets that are not individually significant.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither retained nor transferred and the Group has retained If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment control, the assets continue to be recognised to the extent exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether of the Groups continuing involvement.
Financial liabilities are significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial derecognised when they are extinguished.
assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually Income recognition assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities or continues to be recognised, are not included in a collective held at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense assessment of impairment.
is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, the Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the instruments at fair value through profit or loss are included in the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future income statement in the period in which they arise.
Contractual cash ows excluding future credit losses that have not been interest income and expense on financial instruments designated incurred, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
at fair value through profit or loss is recognised within net interest The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of income.
For trading financial instruments, interest income and an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in expense is recognised within net interest income using the the income statement.
If a loan and receivable or held-to-maturity effective interest method.
asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate available-for-sale financial assets, other than foreign exchange determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the gains and losses from monetary items, are recognised directly Group may measure impairment on the basis of an instruments in equity, until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at fair value using an observable market price.
which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash equity is recognised in profit or loss.
ows of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income that may result from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and statement within Other income when the Groups right to receive selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk Impairment of financial assets characteristics i. e. on the basis of the Groups grading process Assets carried at amortised cost which considers asset type, industry, geographic location, The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
These is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash ows assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets for groups of such assets being indicative of the debtors ability is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or assets being evaluated.
more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or events has an impact on Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
basis of the historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss The following factors are considered in assessing objective experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data evidence of impairment: to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the whether the customer is more than 90 days past due: period on which the historical loss experience is based, and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do a customer files for bankruptcy protection or the local not exist currently.
equivalent where this would avoid or delay repayment of its obligation: To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off the Group files to have the customer declared bankrupt or files after all the necessary procedures have been completed and the a similar order in respect of a credit obligation: amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated by provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a a material forgiveness of debt or postponement of scheduled subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases payments: and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised impairment economic loss: or loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount there is observable data indicating that there is a measurable of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
decrease in the estimated future cash flows of a group of www.
com 97 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Impairment of financial assets continued together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset Available-for-sale assets or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a security no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment below its cost is considered, amongst other indicators of to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective impairment, in determining whether an asset is impaired.
If interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, period to maturity.
the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the b Cash ow hedge acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt recognised immediately in the income statement.
instrument classied as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit through the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in or loss.
the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge through the income statement.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is Derivative contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Fair values may be expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
market transactions, and valuation techniques, including c Net investment hedge discounted cash ow models and option pricing models, as Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted appropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a derivative for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised not observable in the market, it follows the same initial recognition in the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective accounting policy as for other financial assets and liabilities.
All portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income as liabilities when fair value is negative.
statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the the income statement.
host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with Offsetting financial instruments changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being liability simultaneously.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or Sale and repurchase agreements rm commitments fair value hedge : or, 2 hedges of highly Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos probable future cash ows attributable to a recognised asset remain on the balance sheet: the counterparty liability is included or liability, or a forecasted transaction cash ow hedge.
Hedge in amounts due to other banks, deposits from banks, other accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way provided deposits or deposits due to customers, as appropriate.
Securities certain criteria are met.
purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers, The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the as appropriate.
The difference between sale and repurchase price relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking using the effective interest method.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in ows of hedged items.
which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, 98 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1.
Accounting Policies continued Interest income and expense Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has Interest income and expense is recognised in the income been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest statement using the effective interest method.
income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash ows for the purpose of measuring the The effective interest method is a method of calculating the impairment loss.
amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the Fees and commissions relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through basis when the service has been provided.
Loan syndication the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the for itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate for Group estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms of the other participants.
Portfolio and other management advisory the financial instrument for example, prepayment options but and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all contracts, usually on a time-apportionate basis.
fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract Hyperinflation that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction Where the Group has operations in countries that experience costs and all other premiums or discounts.
hyperinflation, the financial statements are restated for changes Where the estimates of cash flows have been revised, the in general purchasing power of the local currency.
carrying amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reflect the actual and revised cash flows.
The adjustment is recognised as interest income or expense in the period in which the revision is made.
com 99 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 2.
Segmental Information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments: Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking.
The types of products and services within these segments are set out in the Financial Review.
The Groups secondary reporting format comprises geographic segments, classified by the location of the customer.
By Class of Business 2007 2006 Corporate Corporate Consumer Wholesale items not Consumer Wholesale items not Banking Banking allocated Total Banking Banking allocated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 77 77 75 75 Net interest income 4,194 2,071 6,265 3,545 1,783 5,328 Other income 1,689 3,095 18 4,802 1,214 2,065 13 3,292 Operating income 5,806 5,243 18 11,067 4,684 3,923 13 8,620 Operating expenses 3,393 2,814 8 6,215 2,641 2,151 4 4,796 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 2,413 2,429 10 4,852 2,043 1,772 9 3,824 Impairment losses releases on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 736 25 761 721 92 629 Other impairment 57 57 15 15 Profit loss from associates 1 1 2 2 Profit before taxation 1,677 2,347 11 4,035 1,322 1,849 7 3,178 Total assets employed 90,238 238,408 559 329,205 86,902 178,688 512 266,102 Total liabilities employed 120,213 187,355 185 307,753 107,165 141,474 68 248,707 Total risk weighted assets and contingents 63,516 108,317 171,833 60,380 93,053 153,433 Other segment items: Capital expenditure 418 208 626 209 150 359 Depreciation 136 46 182 100 35 135 Amortisation of intangible assets 68 95 163 52 81 133 As required by IAS 14, tax balances are not allocated.
Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
In addition, certain assets have been reallocated between Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking to present on a consistent basis.
100 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2.
Segmental Information continued By Geographic Segment The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in nine main geographic areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
# Americas, UK & Europe was previously Americas, UK & Group Head Office.
The business captured within this segment has not been changed, the title has been revised to more appropriately describe the segment.
com 101 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 2.
# Total assets employed includes intra-group items of $38,784 million and excludes deferred tax assets of $512 million.
102 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2.
Segmental Information continued Apart from the entities that have been acquired in the last two In 2007, corporate items not allocated to businesses relate years, Group central expenses have been distributed between to profits on disposal of businesses, pre-incorporation costs segments in proportion to their direct costs, and the benefit in China and profits from associates.
of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments Assets held at the centre have been distributed between in proportion to their average risk weighted assets.
In the year geographic segments in proportion to their total assets employed.
in which an acquisition is made the Group does not charge or allocate the benefit of the Groups capital.
The distribution Total risk weighted assets and contingents include $6,952 million of central expenses is phased in over two years, based on 2006: $3,134 million of balances which are netted in calculating an estimate of central management costs associated with capital ratios.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property and equipment note 26 and software related intangibles note 25 including any post-acquisition additions made by acquired entities.
Interest Income 2007 2006 $million $million Balances at central banks 39 29 Treasury bills 884 746 Loans and advances to banks 1,975 1,177 Loans and advances to customers 10,746 8,997 Listed debt securities 1,081 855 Unlisted debt securities 1,385 1,131 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 66 52 16,176 12,987 Total interest income from financial instruments held at amortised cost in 2007 is $11,070 million 2006: $8,738 million and from financial instruments held as available-for-sale is $2,390 million 2006: $2,027 million.
Interest Expense 2007 2006 $million $million Deposits by banks 1,497 1,122 Customer accounts: Interest bearing current accounts and savings deposits 1,508 1,567 Time deposits 4,552 3,141 Debt securities in issue 1,543 1,186 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: Wholly repayable within five years 245 227 Other 566 416 9,911 7,659 Total interest expense on financial instruments held at amortised cost in 2007 is $8,347 million 2006: $6,948 million.
Fees and Commissions 2007 2006 $million $million Fee income: Arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss 1,160 1,145 Arising from trust and other fiduciary activities 302 155 Other 1,727 975 3,189 2,275 Fee expense: Arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss 285 253 Arising from trust and other fiduciary activities 26 14 Other 217 127 528 394 www.
com 103 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 6.
Net Trading Income 2007 2006 $million $million Gains less losses on instruments held for trading: Foreign currency 862 645 Trading securities 102 109 Interest rate derivatives 257 151 Credit and other derivatives 39 40 Gains less losses from fair value hedged items and hedging instruments 3 14 Gains less losses on instruments designated at fair value: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 44 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 37 37 Derivatives managed with financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 3 2 1,261 920 7.
Other Operating Income 2007 2006 $million $million Other operating income includes: Gains less losses on available-for-sale financial assets: On disposal 339 185 Writedowns on asset backed securities 87 Gains less losses on disposal of loan and receivable financial assets 3 5 Dividend income 279 77 Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition 98 106 Recognition of profit on Visa shares 107 Income on repatriation of branch capital 109 Gain on effective part disposal of Pakistan branches 17 Profit on part disposal of merchant acquiring business 15 Net profit on sale of businesses 3 8.
Operating Expenses 2007 2006 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 2,970 2,278 Social security costs 67 74 Other pension costs note 36 213 166 Other staff costs 699 395 3,949 2,913 Premises and equipment expenses: Rental of premises 259 215 Other premises and equipment costs 307 208 Rental of computers and equipment 26 21 592 444 General administrative expenses 1,329 1,171 Wages and salaries include share based payments see note 41.
The Company employed nil staff at 31 December 2007 2006: nil and it incurred costs of $7 million 2006: $2 million.
Directors emoluments Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages 73 to 85.
Transactions with directors, officers and other related parties are disclosed in the related parties note 52 on page 155.
104 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 8.
Operating Expenses continued Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the Group statutory audit amounts to $4.4 million 2006: $3.3 million.
The following fees were payable by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates together KPMG : 2007 2006 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit: Fees relating to the current year 3.8 3.3 Fees relating to prior year 0.6 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 9.7 7.6 Other services pursuant to legislation 3.0 1.6 Tax services 0.4 1.0 Services relating to information technology 0.1 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.8 1.4 All other services 0.3 0.2 Total fees payable 18.7 15.2 The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit fees are in respect of fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC.
It excludes amounts payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLCs subsidiaries and amounts payable to KPMG Audit Plcs associates.
These amounts have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group.
Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services.
Services relating to information technology include advice on IT security and business continuity, and performing agreed upon IT testing procedures.
Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transaction related work irrespective of whether the Group is vendor or purchaser, such as acquisition due diligence and long-form reports.
All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice and review of financial models.
Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are included within auditors remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of $0.3 million 2006: $0.2 million by parties other than the Group but where the Group are connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for Standard Chartered PLC are not disclosed because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the Group.
Depreciation and Amortisation 2007 2006 $million $million Premises 78 57 Equipment 104 78 Intangibles: Software 86 81 Acquired on business combinations 77 52 345 268 10.
Other Impairment 2007 2006 $million $million Intangible assets 17 Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets 40 15 57 15 Impairment of intangible assets consists of the write-off of a customer relationship asset relating to Whistlejacket.
Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets includes $35 million 2006: $nil million impairment on asset backed securities.
com 105 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 11.
Taxation Analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2007 2006 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the profits for the year comprises: United Kingdom corporation tax at 30% 2006: 30% : Current tax on income for the year 385 229 Adjustments in respect of prior periods including double taxation relief 18 244 Double taxation relief 385 208 Foreign tax: Current tax on income for the year 1,258 868 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 13 33 Total current tax 1,253 678 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 167 57 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 40 89 Total deferred tax 207 146 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,046 824 Effective tax rate 25.9% 25.9% Re-presented to identify separately all adjustments in respect of prior periods for United Kingdom, and foreign and deferred taxation.
Overseas taxation includes taxation on Hong Kong profits of $195 million 2006: $166 million provided at a rate of 17.5 per cent 2006: 17.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
With effect from 1 April 2008, the United Kingdom corporation tax rate is to be reduced from 30 per cent to 28 per cent.
As a result, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been re-measured at the reduced tax rate where the asset or liability is settled after 1 April 2008.
The taxation charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 30 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 $million $million Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4,035 3,178 Tax at 30% 2006: 30% 1,211 953 Effects of: Tax free income 203 52 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 176 191 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 222 173 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 45 122 Other items 37 63 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,046 824 Tax recognised directly in equity: 2007 2006 $million $million Current tax credit on share based payments 38 18 Current tax credit on available-for-sale assets 5 Total current tax recognised in equity 38 23 Deferred tax charge on available-for-sale assets 38 70 Deferred tax charge on pensions 71 38 Deferred tax charge on share based payments 61 29 Deferred tax credit charge on cash flow hedges 7 25 Deferred tax on other items 1 8 Total deferred tax recognised in equity 164 96 Total tax recognised in equity 126 73 106 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12.
Dividends 2007 2006 Cents Cents Ordinary Equity Shares per share $million per share $million Final dividend declared and paid during the period 50.21 695 45.06 595 Interim dividend declared and paid during the period 23.12 324 20.83 277 73.33 1,019 65.89 872 2007 2006 Preference Shares $million $million 3 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 8 per cent preference shares of 1 each 15 14 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 16 15 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 8.9 per cent preference shares of $5 each 22 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each 28 3 Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense and accrued accordingly.
Dividends on ordinary equity and redeemable preference members at the close of business in the UK 5.00 pm GMT on shares are recorded in the period in which they are declared 7 March 2008, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch and, in respect of the final dividend, have been approved by register of members at the opening of business in Hong Kong the shareholders.
Accordingly, the final ordinary equity share 9:00 am Hong Kong time on 7 March 2008.
It is intended that dividends set out above relate to the respective prior years.
The shareholders will be able to elect to receive shares credited as 2007 final ordinary equity share dividend of 56.23 cents per share fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details $793 million will be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars or of this dividend will be sent to shareholders on or around US dollars on 16 May 2008 to shareholders on the UK register of 27 March 2008.
Earnings Per Ordinary Share 2007 2006 Weighted Per Weighted Per average number share average number share Profit of shares amount Profit of shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic earnings per ordinary share 2,813 1,398,747 201.1 2,253 1,332,985 169.0 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Options 17,048 16,050 Diluted earnings per share 2,813 1,415,795 198.7 2,253 1,349,035 167.0 There were no ordinary shares issued after the balance sheet date that would have significantly affected the number of ordinary shares used in the above calculations had they been issued prior to the end of the balance sheet period.
Normalised earnings per ordinary share The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings defined in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation.
2007 2006 $million $million Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,813 2,253 Premium and costs paid on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 4 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 77 52 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 1 16 Gain on transfer of branches 17 Pre-incorporation costs in China 8 4 Net profit on sale of businesses 3 Profit on partial disposal of merchant acquiring business 15 Foreign exchange gain on repatriation of branch capital 109 Impairment of customer relationship intangible 17 Tax on normalised items 23 5 Normalised earnings 2,764 2,275 Normalised basic earnings per ordinary share 197.6c 170.7c Normalised diluted earnings per ordinary share 195.2c 168.6c The profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and is therefore after the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the noncumulative redeemable preference shares see note 12. www.
com 107 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 14.
Financial Instruments Classification Summary Financial instruments are classified between four recognition The Groups classification of its principal financial assets and principles: held at fair value through profit or loss comprising liabilities excluding derivatives which are classified as trading trading and designated, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity, loans and are disclosed in note 16 is summarised in the table below.
and receivables, and for financial liabilities, amortised cost.
The Cash and balances at central banks of $10,175 million 2006: face of the balance sheet combines financial instruments that are $7,698 million is deemed to be held at amortised cost.
held at their fair value and subdivided between those assets and liabilities held for trading purposes and those that the Group has elected to hold at fair value.
Designated at fair value through AvailableLoans and Held-toTrading profit or loss for-sale receivables maturity Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to banks 2,314 35,365 37,679 Loans and advances to customers 1,978 738 154,266 156,982 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,942 453 11,667 15,062 Debt securities 13,829 334 38,098 2,719 100 55,080 Equity shares 108 262 2,690 3,060 Total at 31 December 2007 21,171 1,787 52,455 192,350 100 267,863 Loans and advances to banks 1,340 19,724 21,064 Loans and advances to customers 1,000 194 139,300 140,494 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,722 696 12,522 15,940 Debt securities 8,906 695 32,711 2,649 137 45,098 Equity shares 162 1,478 1,640 Total at 31 December 2006 14,130 1,585 46,711 161,673 137 224,236 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Financial Assets Held at Fair Value through Profit or Loss For certain loans and advances and debt securities with fixed matching the principal terms of interest rate swaps to the rates of interest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with corresponding loans and debt securities.
the intention of significantly reducing interest rate risk.
The changes in fair value of both the underlying loans and Derivatives are recorded at fair value whereas loans and advances and debt securities and interest rate swaps are advances are usually recorded at amortised cost.
To monitored in a similar manner to trading book portfolios.
significantly reduce the accounting mismatch between fair value and amortised cost, these loans and advances and debt The maximum exposure to credit risk for loans designated securities have been designated at fair value through profit or at fair value through profit or loss was $738 million 2006: loss.
The Group ensures the criteria under IAS 39 are met by $194 million.
108 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15.
Financial Assets Held at Fair Value through Profit or Loss continued The fair value loss on loans and advances to customers The changes in fair value attributable to credit risk was designated at fair value through profit or loss was $1.0 million determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free 2006: $4.7 million.
Of this, $nil million 2006: $0.4 million bonds with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value loans designated at fair value through profit or loss.
movement relating to changes in credit risk was $0.4 million 2006: $0.4 million.
2007 2006 Designated at Designated at fair value fair value through through Trading profit or loss Total Trading profit or loss Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to banks 2,314 2,314 1,340 1,340 Loans and advances to customers 1,978 738 2,716 1,000 194 1,194 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,942 453 3,395 2,722 696 3,418 Debt securities 13,829 334 14,163 8,906 695 9,601 Equity shares 108 262 370 162 162 21,171 1,787 22,958 14,130 1,585 15,715 Debt securities 2007 2006 $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 5,344 2,321 Other public sector securities 30 45 5,374 2,366 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 479 405 Other debt securities 2,672 2,082 3,151 2,487 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 5,638 4,748 Total debt securities 14,163 9,601 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 536 418 Listed elsewhere 5,641 2,819 Unlisted 7,986 6,364 14,163 9,601 Equity shares Listed elsewhere 3 36 Unlisted 367 126 Total equity shares 370 162 www.
com 109 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 15.
Financial Assets Held at Fair Value through Profit or Loss continued For certain loans and advances designated at fair value measurement been used at initial recognition is amortised to through profit or loss, the difference arising between the fair the income statement until the inputs become observable or value at initial recognition and the amount that would have the transaction matures or is terminated.
The table below sets arisen had the valuation techniques used for subsequent out a reconciliation of amounts deferred: 2007 2006 $million $million At 1 January 2 Additional amount deferred 10 2 Recognised in income 3 At 31 December 9 2 Changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives would not significantly change the fair value.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value in financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount response to changes in interest rates, financial instrument prices, of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, credit risk and indices.
The Group limits its exposure to credit losses in the event of The types of derivatives used by the Group are set out below.
default by entering into master netting agreements with certain All derivatives are classified as trading and recognised and market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, exposures are subsequently measured at fair value, with all revaluation gains not presented net in these accounts as in the ordinary course recognised in profit and loss except where cash flow hedging of business they are not intended to be settled net.
Details of has been achieved, in which case the effective portion of changes the amounts available for offset can be found in note 49, under in fair value go through reserves.
maximum exposure to credit risk.
These tables analyse the notional principal amounts and the The Derivatives and Hedging sections of the Risk Review on positive and negative fair values of the Groups derivative pages 57 and 58 explains the Groups risk management of derivative contracts.
Derivative Financial Instruments continued The Group uses derivatives primarily to mitigate interest rate have been met.
The table below lists the types of derivatives and foreign exchange risk.
Hedge accounting is applied to that the Group holds for hedge accounting.
derivatives and hedged items when the criteria under IAS 39 2007 2006 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Derivatives held for hedging $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Swaps 13,392 352 161 10,570 589 464 13,392 352 161 10,570 589 464 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Swaps 5,120 35 13 5,596 17 21 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,414 37 19 921 61 2 6,534 72 32 6,517 78 23 Total derivatives held for hedging 19,926 424 193 17,087 667 487 Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage fixed rates of In respect of fair value hedges, gains arising on the hedging interest.
The swaps exchange fixed rates for floating rates on instruments during the year were $49 million 2006: losses of funding to match floating rates received on assets, or exchanges $218 million compared to losses arising on the hedged items fixed rates on assets to match the floating rates paid on funding.
of $52 million 2006: gains of $232 million.
For qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative are substantially matched by corresponding fair value changes of the hedged item, both of which are recognised in profit and loss.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses swaps to manage the variability in future interest foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the hedges are cash flows on assets and liabilities that have floating rates of deferred in equity until the variability on the cash flow affects interest by exchanging the floating rates for fixed rates.
It also profit and loss, at which time the gains or losses are transferred uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the variability in to profit and loss.
future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in The Group has hedged the following cash flows which are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: 2007 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 98 82 31 36 2 1 250 Forecast payable cash flows 724 706 14 5 3 1,452 626 624 17 31 1 1 1,202 2006 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 101 82 51 18 32 284 Forecast payable cash flows 721 335 55 13 3 1,127 620 253 4 5 29 843 During the year, $nil million 2006: $nil million was recognised in During the period $58 million 2006: $20 million was removed the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on cash from the cash flow hedging reserve and included in profit and loss.
The whole $58 million 2006: $20 million was recognised flow hedges.
com 111 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 17.
Loans and Advances to Banks 2007 2006 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 37,682 21,074 Individual impairment provision note 20 2 9 Portfolio impairment provision note 20 1 1 37,679 21,064 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 2,314 1,340 35,365 19,724 18.
Loans and Advances to Customers 2006 2007 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 158,788 142,709 Individual impairment provision note 20 1,271 1,673 Portfolio impairment provision note 20 535 542 156,982 140,494 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 2,716 1,194 154,266 139,300 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
The Group has transferred to third parties by way of securitisation to be exposed to some credit risks and foreign exchange risks the rights to any collections of principal and interest on customer on these assets.
loan assets with a face value of $5,742 million 2006: $3,935 The Groups exposure to credit risk is concentrated in Hong million.
The Group continues to be exposed to related credit Kong, Korea, Singapore and the Other Asia Pacific region.
and foreign exchange risk on these assets.
The Group continues The Group is affected by the general economic conditions in to recognise these assets in addition to the proceeds and the territories in which it operates.
The Group sets limits on the related liability of $5,155 million 2006: $3,519 million arising exposure to any counterparty and credit risk is spread over a from the securitisations.
variety of different personal and commercial customers.
The The Group has entered into synthetic loan securitisations of Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea $11.7 billion 2006: $5.6 billion and synthetic trade receivable residents of $22.6 billion 2006: $24.0 billion and Hong Kong securitisations of $12.7 billion 2006: $1.5 billion.
The assets residents of approximately $11.8 billion 2006: $11.2 billion.
remain on the Groups balance sheet and the Group continues 112 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19.
Assets Leased to Customers Finance leases and instalment credit 2007 2006 $million $million Finance leases 506 639 Instalment credit agreements 1,127 1,019 1,633 1,658 The above assets are included within loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $140 million 2006: $720 million.
2007 2006 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 61 88 Later than one year and less than five years 511 496 After five years 12 157 584 741 Interest income relating to future periods 78 102 Present value of finance lease receivables 506 639 Operating lease assets Assets leased to customers under operating leases consist of commercial aircraft which are included within property, plant and equipment in note 26.
At 31 December 2007 these assets had a net book value of $200 million 2006: $nil million.
2007 2006 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under operating leases falling due: Within one year 10 Later than one year and less than five years 21 After five years 5 36 www.
com 113 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 20.
Impairment Provisions on Loans and Advances 2006 2007 $million $million At 1 January 2,225 1,754 Exchange translation differences 28 74 Acquisitions 743 Amounts written off 1,183 962 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 98 106 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 139 128 Discount unwind 66 52 Other 10 12 New provisions 1,352 1,131 Recoveries provisions no longer required 598 497 Net charge against profit 754 634 # Provisions held at 31 December 1,809 2,225 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
The net charge of $754 million 2006: $634 million comprises $769 million 2006: $604 million individual impairment charge and $ 15 million 2006: $30 million portfolio impairment release charge.
It excludes provision releases of $3 million 2006: $11 million for credit commitments note 35 and impairment charges of $10 million 2006: $6 million relating to debt securities designated as loans and receivables note 22.
# The provision of $1,809 million held at 31 December 2007 2006: $2,225 million comprises $1,273 million 2006: $1,682 million individual impairment provision and $536 million 2006: $543 million portfolio impairment provision.
The following table shows impairment provisions by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: 2006 2007 $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 99 132 Other 200 226 Small and medium enterprises 356 494 Consumer Banking 655 852 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 33 23 Construction 10 4 Commerce 152 169 Electricity, gas and water 25 6 Financing, insurance and business services 27 20 Mining and quarrying 12 36 Manufacturing 290 507 Commercial real estate 23 12 Transport, storage and communication 22 31 Other 22 13 Wholesale Banking 616 821 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers note 18 1,271 1,673 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks note 17 2 9 Portfolio impairment provision note 17, 18 536 543 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances 1,809 2,225 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
114 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 21.
Individually Impaired Loans and Advances 2007 2006 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Individual impaired loans 1,172 990 2,162 1,761 1,368 3,129 Individual impairment provisions 655 618 1,273 852 830 1,682 Net impaired loans 517 372 889 909 538 1,447 Net impaired loans within Wholesale Banking includes individually 2006: $1,068 million relates to Consumer Banking and $203 impaired loans to banks of $10 million 2006: $18 million and million 2006: $398 million to Wholesale Banking.
Where the fair individual impairment provisions on these loans of $2 million value of collateral held exceeds the outstanding loan, any excess 2006: $9 million.
Collateral held as security against impaired is paid back to the customers and is not available for offset loans primarily relates to property and equipment.
The fair against other loans.
value of collateral held against impaired loans is estimated at $1,121 million 2006: $1,466 million, of which $918 million 22.
Investment Securities  and maturity for-sale receivables Total $million $million $million $million Treasury and other eligible bills 11,667 11,667 Debt securities 100 38,098 2,719 40,917 Equity shares 2,690 2,690 At 31 December 2007 100 52,455 2,719 55,274 Treasury and other eligible bills 12,522 12,522 Debt securities 137 32,711 2,649 35,497 Equity shares 1,478 1,478 At 31 December 2006 137 46,711 2,649 49,497 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
2007 Debt securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 100 12,658 Other public sector securities 1,008 100 13,666 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 6,248 2,175 Other debt securities 12,904 18 19,152 2,193 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 5,280 526 Total debt securities 100 38,098 2,719 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 3,663 58 3,721 Listed elsewhere 77 16,060 1,842 6,346 24,325 Unlisted 23 18,375 2,719 790 5,321 27,228 100 38,098 2,719 2,690 11,667 55,274 Market value of listed securities 75 19,723 1,900 6,346 28,044 www.
com 115 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 22.
Investment Securities continued 2006 Debt securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 137 10,379 Other public sector securities 1,403 137 11,782 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 8,433 2,280 Other debt securities 9,505 178 17,938 2,458 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 2,991 191 Total debt securities 137 32,711 2,649 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 6,679 38 6,717 Listed elsewhere 113 10,183 132 795 7,027 18,250 Unlisted 24 15,849 2,517 645 5,495 24,530 137 32,711 2,649 1,478 12,522 49,497 Market value of listed securities 109 16,862 130 833 7,027 24,961 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Equity shares largely comprise investments in corporates.
Treasury bills and other eligible bills include $492 million Income from listed equity shares amounted to $9 million 2006: 2006: $393 million of bills sold subject to sale and $4 million and income from unlisted equity shares amounted to repurchase transactions.
Debt securities include $1,958 $270 million 2006: $73 million.
million 2006: $896 million of securities sold subject to sale and repurchase transactions.
At 31 December 2007, unamortised premiums on debt securities held for investment purposes amounted to $46 million 2006: $39 million and unamortised discounts amounted to $186 million 2006: $112 million.
116 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 22.
Investment Securities continued The change in impairment provisions is as follows: 2007 2006 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 9 23 10 42 4 30 16 50 Exchange translation differences 1 10 9 1 15 14 Amounts written off 5 5 1 12 7 20 New provisions 45 3 2 50 6 4 16 26 At 31 December 54 22 2 78 9 23 10 42 Of the new provisions raised of $50 million 2006: $26 million, $10 million 2006: $6 million relates to debt securities classified as loans and receivables and is included with impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit provisions, with the balance reported within Other Impairments.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Associates 2007 2006 Investment in subsidiary undertakings $million $million At 1 January 2007 9,656 7,973 Additions 750 2,683 Redemption of capital 1,000 At 31 December 2007 10,406 9,656 At 31 December 2007, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in ordinary share Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation capital Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales United Kingdom, Middle East, South 100% Asia, Asia Pacific, Americas and, through Group companies, Africa Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100% Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100% Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Pakistan 99.0% Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Taiwan 100% Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100% Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, China China 100% Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.97% Standard Chartered Capital Management Jersey LLC, United States United States 100% Standard Chartered Receivables UK Limited, England and Wales United Kingdom 100% Standard Chartered Financial Investments Limited, England and Wales United Kingdom 100% Standard Chartered Debt Trading Limited, England and Wales Hong Kong 100% Formerly Hsinchu International Bank.
Details of all Group companies will be filed with the next annual return of the Company.
Joint venture The Group has a 44.51 per cent interest through a joint venture These mainly comprise banking guarantees and irrevocable company which holds a majority investment in PT Bank Permata letters of credit.
The Group proportionately There are no capital commitments related to the Groups consolidates its share of the assets, liabilities, income and investment in Permata.
expense of Permata on a line by line basis.
Related party transactions are disclosed in note 52.
Contingent liabilities set out in note 45, include $72 million 2006: $24 million relating to this joint venture arrangement.
com 117 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 23.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Associates continued The following amounts have been included in the consolidated accounts of the Group: 2007 2006 $million $million Current assets 663 549 Long-term assets 1,332 1,472 Total assets 1,995 2,021 Current liabilities 1,484 1,580 Long-term liabilities 140 81 Total liabilities 1,624 1,661 371 360 Income 161 100 Expenses 111 73 Impairment 17 17 Operating profit 33 10 Tax 2 2 Share of post tax result from joint venture 35 8 Long-term assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
Interests in associates 2007 2006 $million $million At 1 January 218 128 Additions 51 90 At 31 December 269 218 Profit loss for the year 1 2 Total assets 944 355 Total liabilities 774 216 170 139 The Groups principal associates are: Group interest in ordinary Main areas Associate of operation share capital China Bohai Bank China 19.9% Fleming Family & Partners Asia 20.0% First Africa Holdings Africa 25.0% MCashback Limited UK 30.0% Merchant Solutions Limited Hong Kong 44.0% The Groups investment in China Bohai Bank is less than 20 On 9 February 2007, the Group acquired a 30 per cent interest per cent but is considered to be an associate because of the in MCashback Limited, for $36 million.
In October 2007, the significant influence the Group is able to exercise over the Group obtained a 44 per cent interest in Merchant Solutions companys management, financial and operating policies.
The reporting dates of these associates are within three months of the Groups reporting date.
118 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 24. Business Combinations 2007 acquisitions On 5 October 2007, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the The acquired businesses contributed operating income of share capital of Pembroke Group Limited, an aircraft leasing, $7 million and loss before tax of $2 million to the Group from financing and management company.
On 3 December 2007, the date of their acquisition to 31 December 2007. the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of Harrison If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2007, the operating Lovegrove & Co Limited, an oil and gas advisory boutique income of the Group would have been approximately $11,132 company.
On 5 December 2007, the Group acquired 80 per million and profit before taxation would have been approximately cent of A Brain Limited, a Korean fund administration company.
None of these acquisitions were individually material.
During 2007, the Group acquired the remaining minority interest of Hsinchu for a consideration of $43 million and generated additional goodwill of $34 million.
$million Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: Purchase consideration: cash paid 151 loan notes issued 5 deferred consideration 65 direct costs relating to the acquisitions 3 Total purchase consideration 224 Fair value of net assets acquired 187 Goodwill 37 Deferred consideration is payable between 6 months and 36 months after the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions is attributable to the synergies expected to arise and to the value of the workforce in place which is not recognised separately.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: Acquirees carrying Fair value amount $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 66 66 Loans and advances to customers 2 2 Intangibles other than goodwill 63 Property, plant and equipment 189 152 Deferred tax assets 4 4 Other assets 28 28 Total assets 352 252 Other liabilities 162 162 Total liabilities 162 162 Minority interest 3 Net assets acquired 187 90 Purchase consideration settled in cash 151 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiaries acquired 66 Cash outflow on acquisition 85 Cash and balances at central banks include amounts subject to regulatory restrictions.
The fair value amounts contain some provisional balances which will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions can be analysed as follows: $million Brand names 6 Customer relationships 55 Capitalised software 2 Total 63 www.
com 119 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 24. Business Combinations continued 2006 acquisitions On 5 September 2006, the Group acquired 95.4 per cent of the On 19 October 2006, the Group acquired a controlling interest of share capital of Union, following which on 30 December 2006, 95.4 per cent of the share capital of Hsinchu.
Subsequent to this, the business and assets of the Standard Chartered Bank branch the Group acquired a further 0.8 per cent of Hsinchu through in Pakistan was transferred into a new entity, Standard Chartered share purchase to take its overall share to 96.2 per cent at Pakistan Limited, generating additional goodwill of $17 million 31 December 2006. and increasing the Groups shareholding to 99 per cent.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: Union Hsinchu Acquirees Acquirees carrying carrying Fair value Fair value amount amount $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 148 148 481 481 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 563 563 Loans and advances to banks 104 104 440 440 Loans and advances to customers 1,118 1,206 9,225 9,352 Investment securities 404 411 1,614 1,609 Intangibles other than goodwill 55 3 122 Property, plant and equipment 44 28 287 307 Deferred tax assets 43 1 162 151 Other assets 48 61 212 213 Total assets 1,964 1,962 13,106 13,116 Deposits by banks 425 425 988 988 Customer accounts 1,320 1,309 10,709 10,709 Debt securities in issue 532 532 Other liabilities 97 96 48 41 Retirement benefit obligations 116 27 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 40 41 545 545 Total liabilities 1,882 1,871 12,938 12,842 Minority interest 7 7 8 10 Net assets acquired 75 84 160 264 Purchase consideration settled in cash 489 1,201 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 164 589 Cash outflow on acquisition 325 612 Total purchase consideration 489 1,201 Fair value of net assets acquired 75 160 Goodwill 414 1,041 Intangible assets acquired: Brand names 6 24 Customer relationships 13 43 Core deposits 33 55 Capitalised software 3 Total 55 122 During 2007 certain of the provisionally determined fair value amounts have been finalised and in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the adjustments have been made as at the date of acquisition and the 2006 balance sheet amounts restated.
Details of these adjustments are explained in note 51.
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Union and Hsinchu is which are not recognised separately, such as the branch attributable to the significant synergies expected to arise from networks and, for Hsinchu, a workforce in place with Mandarin their development within the Group and to those intangibles speaking capabilities.
120 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 25.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets 2007 2006 Acquired Acquired Goodwill intangibles Software Total Goodwill intangibles Software Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost At 1 January 6,192 439 458 7,089 4,451 218 462 5,131 Exchange translation differences 42 4 18 56 212 18 19 249 Acquisitions 71 63 134 1,529 179 9 1,717 Additions 155 155 25 89 114 Disposals 4 4 18 18 Amounts written off 21 83 104 99 99 Other movements 11 11 1 4 5 At 31 December 6,305 477 533 7,315 6,192 439 458 7,089 Provision for amortisation At 1 January 514 88 240 842 514 32 264 810 Exchange translation differences 1 7 6 4 8 12 Amortisation for the period 77 86 163 52 81 133 Disposals 17 17 Amounts written off 4 72 76 96 96 At 31 December 514 160 261 935 514 88 240 842 Net book value 5,791 317 272 6,380 5,678 351 218 6,247 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
At 1 January 2006, the net book value was: goodwill, $3,937 million: acquired intangibles, $186 million: and software, $198 million.
At 31 December 2007, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $69 million 2006: $69 million.
2007 2006 $million $million Acquired intangibles primarily comprise those recognised as part Acquired intangibles comprise: of the acquisitions of SC First Bank SCFB, Permata, Union Bank, Hsinchu, Pembroke and Harrison Lovegrove.
The acquired Core deposits 108 148 intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a Customer relationships 103 90 maximum of 16 years in the case of the customer relationships Brand names 102 109 intangible acquired in SCFB.
Licences 4 4 Net book value 317 351 Significant items of goodwill arising on acquisitions have been allocated to the following cash generating units for the purposes of impairment testing: Goodwill Acquisition Cash Generating Unit $million SCFB Korean business 1,904 Union Pakistan business 431 Hsinchu Taiwan business 1,100 Manhattan Card Business Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MESA 896 Grindlays India India business 423 Grindlays MESA MESA business 368 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Thailand business 307 Permata Groups share of Permata 163 Other 199 5,791 www.
com 121 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 25.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets continued All recoverable amounts were measured based on value in use.
business comprises a credit card business and a personal loans The key assumptions and approach to determining value in use business across Asia, India and MESA.
calculations, as set out below, are solely estimates for the In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that purposes of assessing impairment on acquired goodwill.
The growth would increase at a steady rate of 3.8 per cent in line calculation for each unit uses cash flow projections based on with the long-term forecast global GDP growth.
A pre-tax budgets and forecasts approved by management covering one discount rate of 13.0 per cent was used.
year, except for Permata five years.
These are then extrapolated for periods of up to a further 19 years using steady long-term Grindlays India forecast GDP growth rates and a terminal value determined Grindlays India was acquired in 2000 with initial goodwill based on long-term earning multiples.
Where these rates are recognised of $446 million.
This was amortised to $366 million different from available market data on long-term rates, that fact under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
It comprises Consumer is stated below.
The cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax and Wholesale Banking operations in India.
discount rate which reflects current market rates appropriate to In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that the cash generating unit.
Management believes that any growth would increase at a steady rate of 7.1 per cent in line reasonable possible change in the key assumptions on which with the long-term forecast GDP growth of India.
A pre-tax the recoverable amounts have been based would not cause discount rate of 26.5 per cent was used.
the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amount.
Grindlays MESA SCFB Grindlays MESA was acquired in 2000 with initial goodwill SCFB was acquired in April 2005 with initial goodwill recognised recognised of $446 million.
This was amortised to $366 million of $1,738 million.
The business comprises Consumer and under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
It comprises Consumer Wholesale Banking operations in Korea.
and Wholesale Banking operations in MESA.
In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that growth would increase at a steady rate of 4.2 per cent in line with growth would increase at a steady rate of 3.8 per cent in line with the long-term forecast GDP growth of Korea.
A pre-tax discount the long term forecast GDP growth of MESA.
A pre-tax discount rate of 16.4 per cent was used.
Union Standard Chartered Bank Thai Union was acquired in September 2006 with initial goodwill 75 per cent of Standard Chartered Bank Thai was acquired in recognised of $414 million.
Additional goodwill of $17 million 1999 with initial goodwill recognised of $222 million.
This was arose as a result of a share swap.
The business comprises amortised to $204 million under UK GAAP until 31 December Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in Pakistan.
In 2005 the Group acquired the remaining 25 per cent, In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that increasing goodwill to $272 million.
The business comprises growth would increase at a steady rate of 7.4 per cent in line Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in Thailand.
with the long-term forecast GDP growth of Pakistan.
A pre-tax In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that discount rate of 26.1 per cent was used.
growth would increase at a steady rate of 5.6 per cent in line Hsinchu with the long term forecast GDP growth of Thailand.
A pre-tax Hsinchu was acquired in October 2006 with initial goodwill discount rate of 19.5 per cent was used.
recognised of $1,041 million and a further $34 million in 2007.
Permata The business comprises Consumer and Wholesale Banking 31.55 per cent of Permata was acquired in 2004 with initial operations in Taiwan.
A further 12.96 per cent In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that was acquired in September 2006 with goodwill of $57 million.
growth would increase at a steady rate of 4.5 per cent in line with This business comprises Consumer and Wholesale Banking the long-term forecast GDP growth of Taiwan.
A pre-tax discount operations in Indonesia.
In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that Manhattan Card Business growth would increase at a steady rate of 5.4 per cent in line Manhattan Card Business was acquired in 2000 with initial with the long-term forecast GDP growth of Indonesia.
A pre-tax goodwill recognised of $1,061 million.
This was amortised to discount rate of 25.9 per cent was used.
$892 million under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
The 122 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 26.
Property, Plant and Equipment 2007 2006 Premises Equipment Total Premises Equipment Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation At 1 January 2,184 509 2,693 1,694 414 2,108 Exchange translation differences 71 20 91 106 10 116 Additions 309 162 471 146 99 245 Acquisitions 189 189 288 47 335 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 55 55 110 47 64 111 Reclassification 202 8 194 3 3 At 31 December 2,711 817 3,528 2,184 509 2,693 Depreciation Accumulated at 1 January 215 310 525 177 287 464 Exchange translation differences 5 17 22 6 7 13 Charge for the year 78 104 182 57 78 135 Attributable to assets sold or written off 37 51 88 25 62 87 Accumulated at 31 December 261 380 641 215 310 525 Net book amount at 31 December 2,450 437 2,887 1,969 199 2,168 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
At 1 January 2006, the net book value was: premises, $1,517 million: and equipment, $127 million.
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount: 2007 2006 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Cost 53 13 47 4 Aggregate depreciation 6 5 4 2 Net book amount 47 8 43 2 The Groups premises leases include rent review periods, renewal terms and in some cases purchase options.
2007 2006 $million $million Minimum lease payments under finance leases falling due: Within one year 4 1 Later than one year and less than five years 8 2 12 3 Future finance charges on finance leases 2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 10 3 www.
com 123 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 27.
Deferred Tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the reporting period: At Exchange & Charge Charge At 1 January other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 2007 adjustments disposals to profit to equity 2007 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 10 9 3 34 56 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 175 67 35 2 275 Tax losses carried forward 53 1 1 1 52 Available-for-sale assets 36 5 38 79 Premises revaluation 17 1 1 17 Cash flow hedges 24 3 7 20 Unrelieved foreign tax 76 19 57 Retirement benefit obligations 174 60 2 71 41 Share based payments 131 18 61 88 Other temporary differences 30 7 143 106 512 4 207 164 559 At Exchange & Charge Charge At 1 January other credit credit 31 December Acquisitions 2006 adjustments disposals to profit to equity 2006 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 34 30 10 4 10 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 185 27 123 160 175 Tax losses carried forward 7 22 24 53 Available-for-sale assets 32 2 70 36 Premises revaluation 12 5 17 Cash flow hedges 1 25 24 Unrelieved foreign tax 76 76 Retirement benefit obligations 160 12 32 8 38 174 Share based payments 101 1 29 131 Other temporary differences 10 40 18 86 8 30 498 51 205 146 96 512 Deferred taxation comprises assets and liabilities as follows: 2007 2006 Total Asset Liability Total Asset Liability $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 56 79 23 10 42 32 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 275 273 2 175 238 63 Tax losses carried forward 52 52 53 53 Available-for-sale assets 79 77 2 36 15 21 Premises revaluation 17 15 2 17 16 1 Cash flow hedges 20 19 1 24 23 1 Unrelieved foreign tax 57 57 76 76 Retirement benefit obligations 41 41 174 165 9 Share based payments 88 88 131 131 Other temporary differences 106 108 2 30 37 7 559 587 28 512 614 102 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
124 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 27.
Deferred Tax continued 2007 2006 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : Unrelieved foreign tax 408 222 Unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 369 282 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 136 41 Tax losses 56 34 28.
Other Assets 2007 2006 $million $million Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness note 34 2,862 2,605 Other 8,149 5,996 11,011 8,601 The government of Hong Kong certificates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties.
Deposits by Banks 2007 2006 $million $million Deposits by banks 25,880 26,233 Deposits by banks included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 31 2,705 1,889 28,585 28,122 30.
Customer Accounts 2007 2006 $million $million Customer accounts 179,760 147,382 Customer accounts included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 31 2,836 1,906 182,596 149,288 Included in customer accounts were deposits of $2,805 million 2006: $1,724 million held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under import letters of credit.
com 125 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 31.
Financial Liabilities Held at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 2007 Designated at fair value through profit Trading or loss Total $million $million $million Deposits by banks 2,532 173 2,705 Customer accounts 772 2,064 2,836 Debt securities in issue 2,665 2,351 5,016 Short positions 3,693 3,693 9,662 4,588 14,250 2006 Designated at fair value through profit Trading or loss Total $million $million $million Deposits by banks 1,286 603 1,889 Customer accounts 485 1,421 1,906 Debt securities in issue 1,514 1,771 3,285 Short positions 2,889 2,889 6,174 3,795 9,969 The Group designates certain financial liabilities at fair value derivatives to the corresponding liabilities, either individually through profit or loss where either the liabilities: or on a portfolio basis.
have fixed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other The changes in fair value of both the underlying liabilities interest rate derivatives have been entered into with the and derivatives are monitored in a similar manner to trading intention of significantly reducing interest rate risk: or book portfolios.
are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have The fair value loss on liabilities designated at fair value through been acquired with the intention of significantly reducing profit or loss was $37.3 million for the year 2006: $31.2 million.
exposure to market changes: or Of this, a gain of $0.2 million 2006: loss of $3.7 million relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or relating to changes in credit risk was a loss of $5.2 million 2006: assets, or where the assets and liabilities are managed, a loss of $5.4 million.
and performance evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented risk management or investment strategy.
As at 31 December 2007, the amount the Group is contractually obliged to pay at maturity to the holders of these obligations was Derivatives are recorded at fair value whereas non-trading $52 million 2006: $68 million lower than the carrying amount at financial liabilities unless designated at fair value are recorded fair value.
Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through profit or loss significantly reduces the accounting The change in fair value attributable to credit risk was determined mismatch between fair value and amortised cost expense by comparing fair value movements in risk-free debt instruments recognition a criterion of IAS 39.
The Group ensures the criteria with similar maturities, to the changes in fair value of liabilities under IAS 39 are met by matching the principal terms of designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Debt Securities in Issue 2007 2006 Certificates of Certificates of deposit of Other debt deposit of Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more in issue Total or more in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 8,502 18,635 27,137 10,939 12,575 23,514 Debt securities in issue included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 31 951 4,065 5,016 1,154 2,131 3,285 9,453 22,700 32,153 12,093 14,706 26,799 126 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 33.
com 127 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 34.
Other Liabilities 2006 2007 $million $million Notes in circulation 2,862 2,605 Cash-settled share based payments 73 50 Other liabilities 11,807 8,676 14,742 11,331 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $2,862 million 2006: $2,605 million are secured by the government of Hong Kong certificates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 28.
The Companys liability for cash-settled share based payments as at 31 December 2007 is $73 million 2006: $50 million.
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Provision for credit Other commitments provisions Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2007 28 17 45 Exchange translation differences 1 1 Release charge against profit 3 27 24 Provisions utilised 3 27 30 Other 4 2 2 At 31 December 2007 18 20 38 Provision for credit commitments comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Retirement Benefit Obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2006 2007 $million $million Defined benefit schemes obligation 313 541 Defined contribution schemes obligation 9 12 Net book amount 322 553 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
2006 2007 $million $million At 1 January 553 476 Exchange translation differences 7 48 Acquisitions 1 118 Charge against profit net of finance income 213 166 Change in net liability 452 255 At 31 December 322 553 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2007 2006 $million $million Defined benefit schemes 110 96 Defined contribution schemes 103 70 Charge against profit note 8 213 166 The 2007 charge is presented net and includes a finance charge of $11 million 2006: $6 million.
128 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 36.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued UK Fund The financial position of the Groups principal retirement benefit as at 31 December 2005 by M. Slack, Fellow of the Institute scheme, the Standard Chartered Pension Fund the Fund of Actuaries, of Lane, Clark and Peacock Actuaries, using a defined benefit scheme, is assessed in the light of the advice the projected unit method.
The assumptions having the most of an independent qualified actuary.
The most recent actuarial significant effect on the outcome of this valuation were: assessment of the Fund for the purpose of funding was performed Return from gilts 3.95 per cent per annum Return from return seeking assets 5.70 per cent per annum General increase in salaries 4.40 per cent per annum Rate of price inflation 2.90 per cent per annum Increase in pensions: In deferment where applicable 2.90 per cent per annum In payment pre April 1997 service 2.70 per cent per annum In payment post April 1997 service 2.20 - 2.90 per cent per annum Applies to discretionary increases and some guaranteed increases.
Applying these assumptions, at the valuation date the market Pension costs for the purpose of these accounts were assessed value of the assets of the Fund $1,772 million was sufficient to using the projected unit method, and the assumptions set out cover 99.5 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members.
below were based on market data at the date of calculation.
Additional contributions of $8.4 million were paid during 2007.
Overseas Schemes Additional contributions of $5.6 million are payable in 2008 and The principal overseas defined benefit arrangements operated $1.8 million in each of 2009 and 2010. by the Group are in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan Contributions paid to the Fund during 2007 were $24 million and the United States.
2006: $19 million and regular contributions were set at 32.5 The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated per cent of pensionable salary for all members.
With effect by qualified independent actuaries based on the most recent from 1 July 1998 the Fund was closed to new entrants and full actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to new employees have subsequently been offered membership 31 December 2007. of a defined contribution scheme.
Due to the closure of the Fund to new entrants, the current service cost will increase Separate figures are disclosed for the UK Fund, Overseas as a percentage of pensionable pay as the members Funded Defined Benefit, Post-retirement Medical and Other approach retirement.
The financial assumptions used at 31 December 2007 were: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes UK Fund Overseas Scheme 2007 2006 2007 2006 % % % % Price inflation 3.20 3.00 1.50 - 4.50 1.50 - 4.50 Salary increases 4.70 4.50 3.50 - 6.00 3.25 - 5.50 Pension increases 3.10 2.90 0.00 - 3.10 0.00 - 2.90 Discount rate 5.90 5.20 2.50 - 8.00 2.25 - 8.00 Post-retirement medical trend rate N A N A N A N A The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded defined benefit overseas schemes in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the United States.
These comprise over 90 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas schemes.
The assumption for life expectancy for the UK fund assumes that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 27 years 2006: 26 years and a female member 30 years 2006: 29 years and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 28 years 2006: 27 years and a female member 31 years 2006: 30 years after their 60th birthday.
com 129 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 36.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued Unfunded Schemes Post-retirement Medical Other 2007 2006 2007 2006 % % % % Price inflation 2.70 2.70 1.50 - 7.00 2.50 - 7.00 Salary increases 4.00 4.00 3.50 - 9.00 4.00 - 9.00 Pension increases N A N A 0.00 - 3.10 0.00 - 2.90 Discount rate 6.00 6.00 2.75 - 10.00 3.00 - 10.50 Post-retirement medical rate 8% in 2007 9% in 2006 N A N A reducing by reducing by 1% per 1% per annum to annum to 5% in 2010 5% in 2010 The Post-retirement Medical plan is in the United States.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes, attributable to defined benefit members, at 31 December 2007 were: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes UK Fund Overseas Schemes Post-retirement Medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2007 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.50 628 8.30 - 13.00 224 N A N A N A N A Bonds 4.80 1,188 4.25 - 10.00 186 N A N A N A N A Property N A 5.90 - 11.00 3 N A N A N A N A Others 4.80 97 2.50 - 8.00 162 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,913 575 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,931 602 11 257 Net pension liability 18 27 11 257 Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes UK Fund Overseas Schemes Post-retirement Medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2006 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 7.50 570 8.00 - 14.00 210 N A N A N A N A Bonds 4.50 1,144 4.25 - 8.00 155 N A N A N A N A Property N A 7.00 - 12.00 3 N A N A N A N A Others 4.50 108 2.50 - 5.10 149 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,822 517 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,982 542 9 347 Net pension liability 160 25 9 347 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes UK Fund Overseas Schemes Post-retirement Medical Other Value Value Value Value At 31 December 2005 $million $million $million $million Total market value of assets 1,550 380 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,785 403 11 196 Net pension liability 235 23 11 196 At 31 December 2004 Total market value of assets 1,596 317 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,679 338 11 45 Net pension liability 83 21 11 45 The range of assumptions shown is for the main Overseas Schemes in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the United States.
The expected return on plan assets is set by reference to historical returns in each of the main asset classes, current market indicators such as long term bond yields and the expected long term strategic asset allocation of each plan.
130 130 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 36.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued The pension cost for defined benefit schemes was: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2007 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 18 52 25 95 Past service cost 1 4 2 7 Gain on settlements and curtailments 3 3 Expected return on pension scheme assets 100 32 132 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 100 24 1 18 143 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 19 48 1 42 110 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 28 2 30 Experience gain loss on liabilities 113 12 2 108 207 Total gain loss recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 141 10 2 108 237 Deferred taxation 44 27 71 Total gain loss after tax 97 10 2 81 166 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $128 million and on overseas scheme assets was $34 million.
The total cumulative amount recognised directly in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax to date is a gain of $186 million 2006: loss of $51 million.
Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2006 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 21 42 17 80 Past service cost 9 1 1 9 Loss on settlements and curtailments 1 1 Expected return on pension scheme assets 93 23 116 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 92 19 1 10 122 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 30 39 1 26 96 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 23 27 50 Experience gain loss on liabilities 90 20 2 18 54 Total gain loss recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 113 7 2 18 104 Deferred taxation 34 3 1 38 Total gain loss after tax 79 4 2 19 66 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $116 million and on overseas scheme assets was $50 million.
com 131 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 36.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2005 $million $million $million $million $million Gain on assets in excess of expected return 91 20 111 Experience loss on liabilities 256 5 261 Total loss gain recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 165 15 150 Deferred taxation 50 5 45 Total loss gain after tax 115 10 105 Year ending 31 December 2004 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 20 2 22 Experience gain on liabilities 1 1 2 Loss gain on change of assumptions 23 7 1 29 Total loss gain recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 3 4 1 1 5 Deferred taxation 1 1 Total loss gain after tax 2 4 1 1 4 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $184 million and on overseas scheme assets was $48 million.
The actual return on the UK fund assets was $111 million and on overseas scheme assets was $31 million.
Movement in the pension schemes and postretirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2007 $million $million $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2007 160 25 9 347 541 Contributions 24 58 1 26 109 Current service cost 18 52 25 95 Past service cost 1 4 2 7 Settlement curtailment costs 3 3 Other finance income charge 8 1 18 11 Actuarial gain loss 141 10 2 108 237 Acquisitions 1 1 Exchange rate adjustment 4 2 1 7 Deficit at 31 December 2007 18 27 11 257 313 132 132 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 36.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement Other Total UK Fund Schemes Medical Year ending 31 December 2006 $million $million $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2006 235 23 11 196 465 Contributions 19 51 1 11 82 Current service cost 21 42 17 80 Past service cost 9 1 1 9 Settlement curtailment costs 1 1 Other finance income charge 1 4 1 10 6 Actuarial gain loss 113 7 2 18 104 Acquisitions 25 93 118 Exchange rate adjustment 27 3 18 48 Reclassifications 7 7 Deficit at 31 December 2006 160 25 9 347 541 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Movement in the pension schemes and postretirement medical gross assets and obligations during the year comprise: Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2007 $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2007 2,339 2,880 541 Contributions 109 109 Current service cost 95 95 Past service cost 7 7 Settlement curtailment costs 3 3 Interest cost 143 143 Expected return on scheme assets 132 132 Benefits paid out 146 146 Actuarial gain 30 207 237 Acquisitions 1 1 Exchange rate adjustment 24 31 7 Deficit at 31 December 2007 2,488 2,801 313 Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2006 $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2006 1,930 2,395 465 Contributions 82 82 Current service cost 80 80 Past service cost 9 9 Settlement curtailment costs 1 1 Interest cost 122 122 Expected return on scheme assets 116 116 Benefits paid out 119 119 Actuarial gain 50 54 104 Acquisitions 48 166 118 Exchange rate adjustment 232 280 48 Deficit at 31 December 2006 2,339 2,880 541 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154. www.
com 133 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 37.
Subordinated Liabilities and Other Borrowed Funds 2007 2006 $million $million Subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 675 million 5.375 per cent undated step up Subordinated Notes callable and floating rate from 2020 1,276 1,252 600 million 8.103 per cent Step-Up Callable Perpetual Trust Preferred Securities callable 2016 1,356 1,342 300 million 6.0 per cent Subordinated debt 2018 610 300 million 6.75 per cent Notes 2009 535 526 200 million 7.75 per cent Notes callable 2022 454 454 30 million Floating Rate Notes 2009 59 58 750 million 3.625 per cent Subordinated Notes 2017 Floating rate from 2012 1,043 946 700 million 5.875 per cent Subordinated debt 2017 1,013 675 million Floating Rate Notes 2018 983 885 600 million 5.375 per cent Notes 2009 783 710 500 million 8.16 per cent non-cumulative Trust Preferred Securities callable 2010 734 674 $1 billion 6.4 per cent Subordinated debt 2017 1,042 $700 million 8.0 per cent Subordinated Notes 2031 753 724 $500 million Floating Rate Notes 2016 499 498 $500 million Floating Rate Notes 2015 499 499 $350 million 4.375 per cent Notes 2014 Floating rate from 2009 351 340 $300 million Floating Rate Note 2017 300 $154 million Subordinated debt 2013 147 148 $100 million Floating Rate Notes 2018 100 100 $92 million Subordinated debt 2013 92 92 BWP 75 million Subordinated debt 2017 13 BWP 75 million Floating Rate Notes 2012 12 13 BWP 50 million Fixed and Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 8 8 HKD 670 million Floating Rate Notes 2014 86 80 HKD 500 million 3.5 per cent Notes 2014 Floating rate from 2009 64 63 IDR 500 billion Floating Rate Notes 2016 23 24 KRW 205 billion Subordinated debt 2009 214 218 KRW 160 billion Subordinated debt 2008 161 167 KRW 136 billion Subordinated debt 2007 146 KRW 104 billion Subordinated debt 2007 109 KRW 30 billion Subordinated debt 2011 32 32 KRW 27 billion Subordinated debt 2008 28 29 KRW 3 billion Subordinated debt 2011 3 3 MYR 500 million 4.28 per cent Subordinated Bonds 2017 151 PKR 1 billion Floating Rate Notes 2015 16 17 PKR 750 million Floating Rate Notes 2011 12 12 PKR 750 million Floating Rate Notes 2008 3 11 TWD 10 billion undated Floating Rate Notes 308 306 TWD 8 billion Floating Rate Notes 2007 246 TZS 8 billion Subordinated Notes 2015 7 6 13,770 10,738 Subordinated loan capital issued by Company: Primary Capital Floating Rate Notes $400 million 400 400 $300 million Series 2 300 300 $400 million Series 3 400 400 $200 million Series 4 200 200 150 million 298 294 Other borrowings issued by Company 372 367 1,970 1,961 Total for Group 15,740 12,699 Total for Company 1,987 1,977 In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $389 million 2006: $383 million with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Group basis.
134 134 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 37.
Subordinated Liabilities and Other Borrowed Funds continued All subordinated liabilities described above are unsecured, On 26 September 2007, the Group issued $1,000 million Lower unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditors Tier 2 Notes with a coupon of 6.4 per cent maturing September including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits by 2017, and 700 million Lower Tier 2 Notes with a coupon of banks.
The Group has the right to settle these debt instruments 5.875 per cent, maturing September 2017. in certain circumstances as set out in the contractual agreements.
On 15 November 2007 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad Of the total subordinated liabilities and other borrowings, $10,166 issued MYR500 million Lower Tier 2 Subordinated Unsecured million is at fixed interest rates 2006: $5,118 million.
Floating Rate Notes due 2017, with an issuers call option after five years.
On 12 April 2007, Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited issued Lower Tier 2 capital in the form of $300 million Floating Rate On 27 November 2007, Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited Notes, which have a maturity of 10 years, with an issuers call option issued BWP75 million Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Notes after five years.
due 2017, with an issuers call option after five years.
On 26 April 2007, the Group issued 300 million Lower Tier 2 Step-Up Dated Subordinated notes, which have a maturity of 11 years, with an issuers call option after six years.
Share Capital The authorised share capital of the Company at 31 December 2007 dividends accrued and or payable and the nominal value of the was $5,269 million 2006: $5,113 million made up of 2,632 million shares together with any premium as determined by the Board.
ordinary shares of $0.50 each, 500 million non-cumulative The redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the paid irredeemable preference shares of 1 each, 300 million nonup amount which includes premium at the option of the cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each and one Company in accordance with the terms of the shares.
The million non-cumulative redeemable preference share of 1,000 each.
holders of the preference shares are not entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is The available profits of the Company are distributed to the holders not paid in full or where a resolution is proposed varying the rights of the issued preference shares in priority to payments made to of the preference shares.
holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of shares in As at 31 December 2007, 15,000 $5 non-cumulative redeemable issue.
On a winding up, the assets of the Company are applied to preference shares were in issue.
The irredeemable preference the holders of the preference shares in priority to any payment to shares of 1 each are classified as other borrowed funds as the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari passu with, the required by IAS 32. holders of any other shares in issue, for an amount equal to any Group and Company Number of Ordinary share Preference ordinary shares capital share capital Total millions $million $million $million At 1 January 2006 1,316 658 2 660 Capitalised on scrip dividend 15 7 7 Shares repurchased 2 2 Shares issued 53 27 27 At 31 December 2006 1,384 692 692 Capitalised on scrip dividend 16 8 8 Shares issued 10 5 5 At 31 December 2007 1,410 705 705 On 12 January 2006, the Company issued 3,401,290 new transaction.
In return for an issue of shares by the Company ordinary shares at an average price of 1301 pence per share to the placees, the net proceeds of the placing were paid to representing approximately 0.3 per cent of the Companys JerseyCo.
Pursuant to the issue of those shares, the Company existing issued ordinary share capital.
The middle market price acquired the remaining share capital of JerseyCo, being all of on 12 January 2006 was 1323 pence.
The issue of ordinary its redeemable preference shares and the 11 per cent of the shares was used to acquire 20 per cent of Fleming Family & ordinary shares it did not own.
Under this structure merger relief Partners Limited.
applies under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 which provides relief from the requirements under Section 130 of the On 2 October 2006, the Company repurchased the remaining Companies Act 1985 to create a share premium account.
328,388 8.9 per cent non-cumulative preference shares.
The JerseyCo then redeemed its redeemable shares in exchange preference shares were repurchased at a premium of $326 million for the placing proceeds.
On 8 December 2006, the Company issued 7,500 nonOn 4 October 2006, the Company issued 48,500,000 ordinary cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each at a placing shares of $0.50 each at a placing price of 1375 pence per share price of $100,000 each.
The shares are redeemable at the option representing approximately 3.7 per cent of the Companys of the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares at existing issued ordinary share capital.
The middle market price on their paid up amount which includes premium and have 4 October 2006 was 1363 pence.
The proceeds of the issue of discretionary dividend payments and are accordingly classified as ordinary shares was used to acquire Hsinchu.
The placing used equity as required by IAS 32.
The shares were issued to fund the a cash box structure involving a Jersey subsidiary JerseyCo continuing business of the Group.
which was 89 per cent owned by the Company prior to the www.
com 135 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 38.
Share Capital continued On 10 May 2007, the Company issued 12,765,274 new ordinary dividend payments and are accordingly classified as equity shares instead of the 2006 final dividend.
On 10 October 2007, as required by IAS 32.
The shares were issued to fund the the Company issued 3,163,466 new ordinary shares instead of continuing business of the Group.
During the year, 9,012,891 ordinary shares were issued under On 25 May 2007, the Company issued 7,500 non-cumulative the Companys employee share plans at prices between nil and redeemable preference shares of $5 each at a placing price of 1064 pence.
The shares are redeemable at the option of the The holding of Standard Chartered PLC shares for the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares at the paid beneficiaries of the Groups share based award schemes up amount which includes premium and have discretionary is set out in note 39.
Reserves Group Share Capital AvailableCash flow premium Capital redemption Merger for-sale hedge Translation Retained account reserve reserve reserve Total reserve reserve reserve earnings $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2006 3,034 5 11 1,944 23 20 6 6,219 11,222 Recognised income and expense 387 71 672 2,354 3,484 Capitalised on scrip dividend 7 7 Shares issued, net of expenses 838 1,205 2,043 Shares repurchased 2 328 326 Net own shares adjustment 149 149 Share option expense and related taxation 115 115 Dividends, net of scrip 519 519 At 31 December 2006 3,865 5 13 3,149 410 51 678 7,990 16,161 Recognised income and expense 340 6 303 3,010 3,659 Capitalised on scrip dividend 8 8 Shares issued, net of expenses 856 856 Net own shares adjustment 24 24 Share option expense and related taxation 55 55 Dividends, net of scrip 601 601 At 31 December 2007 4,713 5 13 3,149 750 57 981 10,478 20,146 The premium paid on the 8.9 per cent non-cumulative preference shares redeemed in 2006 has been reclassified as a deduction from retained earnings rather than a deduction from the share premium account.
Subsequently it has been deemed not appropriate to apply the relief given in section 160 2 of the Companies Act 1985 that allows a premium payable on redemption to be paid out of the proceeds of a fresh issue of shares made for the purpose of the redemption.
This is because the fresh issue of shares contemplated for the redemption was not complete at the date of the redemption.
Transaction costs relating to share issues deducted from deferred to this reserve until such time as the underlying hedged reserves account total $5 million 2006: $20 million.
item affects profit and loss.
The cumulative amount of goodwill on the acquisition of Translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange subsidiary and associated undertakings written off against gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the Group Group reserves since 1973 is $27 million 2006: $27 million.
Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve until such time as the underlying foreign Capital reserves represent the exchange difference on operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives redenomination of share capital and share premium from used as hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign sterling to US dollars in 2001. exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of Capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of the foreign operations.
the repurchase of preference shares redeemed.
Retained earnings are the carried forward recognised income and The merger reserve represents the premium arising on the expenses of the Group plus current period recognised income shares issued to assist in the funding of certain of the Groups and expenses less dividend distribution, treasury shares and acquisitions.
The issues were made using a financing structure share option expenses.
which required the Company to create a merger reserve under A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas section 131 of the Companies Act 1985. subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local Available-for-sale reserve is the fair value movement of financial operations or to comply with local regulations.
The maintenance assets classified as available-for-sale.
Gains and losses are of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the deferred to this reserve until such time as the underlying asset amount of reserves which can be remitted.
In addition, if these is sold or matures.
overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided taxation liabilities might arise.
Cash flow hedge reserve is the fair value movement of derivatives that meet the criteria of a cash flow hedge.
Gains and losses are 136 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 39.
Reserves continued Shares of the Group held for the beneficiaries of the Groups Scheme, Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme, Performance share based payment schemes Share Plan and Executive Share Option Schemes.
The purchase Bedell Cristin Trustees Limited is trustee of both the 1995 of these shares has been fully funded by the Group.
Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the 1995 trust, which During the current year the 2004 trust has acquired, at market is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with some of value, 351,340 2006: 301,952 shares of the Company for an the Groups employee share schemes, and of the Standard aggregate price of $10 million 2006: $9 million, which are held Chartered 2004 Employee Benefit Trust the 2004 trust which in a pool for the benefit of participants under the Groups deferred is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with the Groups bonus plan.
The purchase of these shares has been fully funded deferred bonus plan.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number by the Group.
At 31 December 2007, the 2004 trust held of awards made under the employee share schemes and the 377,270 2006: 311,157 shares of the Company, of which none deferred bonus plan through the relevant employee benefit trust.
As part of these arrangements Group companies fund the trust, from time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to Own shares held total 638,765 at 31 December 2007 2006: satisfy these awards.
All shares have been acquired through 2,460,031.
The maximum number of shares held during the year the London Stock Exchange.
Except as disclosed above, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold During 2007, the 1995 trust acquired 190,600 shares at a market or redeemed any securities of the Company listed on The Stock price of $5 million 2006: nil.
At 31 December 2007, the 1995 trust Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year ended held 261,495 2006: 2,148,874 shares.
The shares are held in a pool 31 December 2007. for the benefit of participants under the Groups Restricted Share Company Share Capital premium Capital redemption Merger Retained account reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2006 3,034 5 11 1,944 759 5,753 Recognised income and expenses 683 683 Capitalised on scrip dividend 7 7 Shares issued, net of expenses 838 1,205 2,043 Net own shares adjustment 149 149 Shares repurchased 2 328 326 Share option expense and related taxation 67 67 Dividends, net of scrip 519 519 At 31 December 2006 as revised 3,865 5 13 3,149 811 7,843 Recognised income and expenses 349 349 Capitalised on scrip dividend 8 8 Shares issued, net of expenses 856 856 Shares repurchased Net own shares adjustment 24 24 Share option expense and related taxation 78 78 Dividends, net of scrip 601 601 At 31 December 2007 4,713 5 13 3,149 661 8,541 The premium paid on the 8.9 per cent non-cumulative preference shares redeemed in 2006 has been reclassified as a deduction from retained earnings rather than a deduction from the share premium account.
com 137 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 40.
Minority Interests Other minority $300m 7.267% Hybrid Tier 1 Securities interests Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2006 336 115 451 Arising on acquisitions 15 15 Income expenses in equity attributable to minority interests 35 35 Other profits attributable to minority interests 19 57 76 Recognised income and expense 19 92 111 Distributions 22 33 55 Other increases 20 20 At 31 December 2006 333 209 542 Arising on acquisition 3 3 Income expenses in equity attributable to minority interests 48 48 Other profits attributable to minority interests 19 129 148 Recognised income and expense 19 177 196 Distributions 22 98 120 Reductions 20 20 At 31 December 2007 330 271 601 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Share Based Payments The Group operates a number of share based payment schemes 1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme for its directors and employees.
The Group operates a discretionary Restricted Share Scheme RSS for high performing and high potential staff at any level of the The total charge for the year relating to employee share based organisation whom the Group wishes to motivate and retain.
Except payment plans was $117 million 2006: $96 million of which upon appointment when an executive director may be granted an $78 million 2006: $67 million relates to equity-settled awards, award of restricted shares, the RSS is not applicable to executive and $39 million 2006: $29 million relates to cash-settled awards.
directors, as it has no performance conditions attached to it.
50 per After deferred tax, the total charge to the income statement was cent of the award vests two years after the date of grant and the $99 million 2006: $93 million.
The awards can be exercised within seven 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme closed years of the grant date.
The value of shares awarded in any year to No awards have been made under this scheme since August 1999 any individual may not exceed two times their base salary.
as the scheme was replaced by the 2000 Executive Share Option 2006 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme Scheme.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in In addition, the Group operates a Supplementary Restricted Share the Company are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth Scheme which can be used to defer part of an employees annual anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is the share bonus in shares.
The plan is principally used for employees in the price at the date of grant and options can only be exercised if EPS global markets area and is similar to the RSS outlined above except increases by at least 15 per cent over three consecutive years.
for three important factors: executive directors are specifically 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme prohibited from the plan: no new shares can be issued to satisfy The 2000 scheme is designed to be internationally competitive and awards: and there is no individual annual limit.
focus executive directors and their senior management teams on 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan delivering long-term performance.
An EPS performance criterion Under the 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan, shares are conditionally must be met before options can be exercised.
awarded instead of all or part of the executive directors and certain Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in the senior executives annual cash bonus.
Further details are contained Company are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth, in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 and 82. anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price per share All Employee Sharesave Schemes is the share price at the date of grant and options can only be No awards have been made under the 1994 UK Sharesave and exercised if a performance condition is satisfied.
1996 International Sharesave schemes since 2003, as these were 2001 Performance Share Plan replaced by the 2004 UK and International Sharesave schemes.
The Performance Share Plan is designed to be an intrinsic part Under these Sharesave schemes, employees have the choice of of total remuneration for the Groups executive directors and for opening a three-year or five-year savings contract.
Within a period a small number of the Groups most senior executives.
It is an of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate, internationally competitive long-term incentive plan that focuses employees may purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
The executives on meeting and exceeding the long-term performance price at which they may purchase shares is at a discount of up to targets of the Group.
The performance criteria which need to be 20 per cent on the share price at the date of invitation.
There are met are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages no performance conditions attached to options granted under all 75 to 76.
Awards of nil price options to acquire shares are granted the employee sharesave schemes.
to the executives and will normally be exercisable between three In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not possible and ten years after the date of grant if the individual is still to operate Sharesave schemes, typically because of securities law, employed by the Group.
There is provision for earlier exercise regulatory or other similar restrictions.
In these countries the Group in certain limited circumstances.
offers an equivalent cash-based scheme to its employees.
138 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 41.
Share Based Payments continued 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 ESOS Awards made under this scheme are not subject to the valuation criteria of IFRS 2, as all awards are granted prior to 7 November 2002, and are all vested as at that date.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2007 and 2006 is shown below: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 359,207 8.18 1,114,542 7.64 Lapsed 18,250 8.09 4,830 7.29 Exercised 330,151 8.26 750,505 7.39 Outstanding at 31 December 10,806 6.20 359,207 8.18 Exercisable at 31 December 10,806 6.20 359,207 8.18 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 6.20 6.20 0.7 years 6.20 8.88 8.18 1.1 years The intrinsic value of vested 1994 ESOS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007 was $nil million 2006: $0.3 million.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2007 was 15.34 2006: 14.20.
2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 ESOS No share awards were granted during 2007 or 2006.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 14,974,196 8.37 23,634,660 8.08 Lapsed 282,650 9.04 204,514 9.77 Exercised 6,116,337 8.47 8,455,950 7.52 Outstanding at 31 December 8,575,209 8.28 14,974,196 8.37 Exercisable at 31 December 7,931,565 8.16 8,758,519 7.63 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average Weighted Weighted average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 6.905 10.395 8.28 5.2 years 8.37 6.2 years The intrinsic value of vested 2000 ESOS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007 was $9 million 2006: $6 million.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2007 was 14.36 2006: 14.63. www.
com 139 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 41.
Share Based Payments continued 2001 Performance Share Plan 2001 PSP Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2007 2006 Grant date 17 September 12 March 12 September 11 May 14 March Share price at grant date 14.69 14.51 13.17 14.60 14.35 Vesting period years 3 3 3 3 3 Expected dividends yield % 2.9 2.8 3.2 3.0 3.0 Fair value EPS 6.74 6.68 6.00 6.67 6.56 Fair value TSR 2.92 2.89 2.60 2.89 2.84 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend dividends over the performance period, and the likelihood of yield over the last three years or the three years prior to grant.
The meeting the TSR condition which is calculated by the area under EPS and TSR fair value relates to the performance criteria to be the TSR vesting schedule curve.
The EPS fair value is derived by satisfied as explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The discounting 50 per cent of the award by the loss of expected TSR fair value is derived by discounting 50 per cent of the award dividends over the performance period and is adjusted for actual which is subject to the TSR condition by the loss of expected performance as appropriate.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 4,976,599 3,919,726 Granted 2,487,273 2,125,493 Lapsed 490,718 101,878 Exercised 1,087,557 966,742 Outstanding at 31 December 5,885,597 4,976,599 Exercisable at 31 December 279,028 405,798 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life n a 8.3 years 8.3 years The intrinsic value of vested 2001 cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007 was $1 million 2006: $nil million.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2007 was 14.98 2006: 14.69.
1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme 1997 2006 RSS Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2007 2006 Grant date 17 September 12 March 12 September 11 May 14 March Share price at grant date 14.69 14.51 13.17 14.60 14.35 Vesting period years 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 Expected dividends yield % 2.9 2.8 3.2 3.0 3.0 Fair value 13.49 13.36 12.00 13.34 13.12 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend yield over the last three years or the three years prior to grant.
140 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 41.
Share Based Payments continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2007 and 2006 is shown below: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average No.
2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life n a 4.3 years 4.9 years The intrinsic value of vested 1997 2006 RSS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007 was $9 million 2006: $5 million.
2006 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme 2006 SRSS Valuation The first awards under this scheme were made on 12 March 2007.
For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2007 Grant date 17 September 12 March Share price at grant date 14.69 14.51 Vesting period years 2 3 2 3 Expected dividends yield % 2.9 2.8 Fair value 13.49 13.36 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend yield over the last three years or the three years prior to grant.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2007 is shown below: 2007 Weighted average No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January Granted 187,602 Lapsed Exercised Outstanding at 31 December 187,602 Exercisable at 31 December 2007 Weighted Weighted average average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life n a 6.5 years There are no vested 2006 SRSS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007. www.
com 141 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 41.
Share Based Payments continued 1994 1996 UK and International Sharesave Scheme Grants made under these schemes which had not vested as at 7 November 2002 are fair valued under IFRS 2.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 1,543,784 6.12 3,167,779 6.17 Lapsed 412,878 6.75 155,845 6.22 Exercised 569,799 5.81 1,468,150 6.22 Outstanding at 31 December 561,107 5.82 1,543,784 6.12 Exercisable at 31 December 297,272 5.60 462,721 6.63 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 5.60 6.84 5.82 0.8 years 3.34 7.23 6.12 1.2 years The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised was 18.35 2006: 14.64 for 1994 UK Sharesave schemes and 17.56 2006: 14.56 for 1996 International Sharesave schemes.
The intrinsic value of vested 1994 1996 UK and International Sharesave cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007 was $2 million 2006: $6 million.
142 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 41.
Share Based Payments continued 2004 UK and International Sharesave Schemes Valuation Options are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2007 2006 Grant date 1 October 26 September 12 September 8 September Share price at grant date 15.88 16.18 13.17 13.03 Exercise price 12.43 12.43 10.64 10.64 Vesting period years 3 5 3 5 3 5 3 5 Expected volatility % 20.7 24.2 20.7 24.2 20.5 28.9 20.5 29.6 Expected option life years 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 Risk free rate % 4.9 5.00 5.10 5.00 4.9 4.8 4.8 4.7 Expected dividends yield % 2.9 3.3 2.9 3.3 3.1 3.5 3.1 3.5 Fair value 4.4 4.9 4.7 5.1 3.35 4.07 3.31 4.05 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over dividend yield over the last three years or three years prior the last three to five years, or three to five years prior to grant.
Where two amounts are shown for volatility, risk free The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
rates, expected dividends yield and fair values, the first relates The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK to a three year vesting period and the second to a five year government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed vesting period.
The expected dividend yield is based on historical A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2007 and 2006 is shown below: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 11,155,911 9.76 7,892,513 9.24 Granted 5,207,207 12.43 4,035,972 10.64 Lapsed 884,620 10.04 756,606 9.07 Exercised 1,211,767 7.43 15,968 7.95 Outstanding at 31 December 14,266,731 10.91 11,155,911 9.76 Exercisable at 31 December 235,616 7.43 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding contractual life contractual life exercise price exercise price 7.43 12.43 10.91 2.7 years 7.43 10.64 9.76 3.0 years The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2007 was 18.59 2006: 13.98 for the UK Sharesave scheme and 18.72 2006: 13.87 for the International Sharesave scheme.
The intrinsic value of vested 2004 UK and International Sharesave cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2007 was $2 million 2006: $nil million.
2004 Deferred Bonus Plan Under this plan shares are issued directly to participants upon vesting.
A reconciliation of share movements over the year to 31 December 2007 and 2006 is shown below: 2007 2006 No.
of shares Outstanding at 1 January 301,952 408,742 Shares vested 285,227 399,537 Shares awarded 351,340 301,952 Shares lapsed 16,725 9,205 Outstanding at 31 December 351,340 301,952 Notes: a Market value of shares on date of awards 6 March was 13.95 2006: 15.12. b The shares vest one year after the date of award.
com 143 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 42.
Cash and Cash Equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at central banks.
Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 10,175 7,698 Less restricted balances 4,846 3,958 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 6,203 6,233 Loans and advances to banks 32,464 16,084 Trading securities 11,342 12,104 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 930 2,028 Total 55,338 38,161 930 2,028 43.
Capital Commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2007 2006 $million $million Contracted 29 19 44.
Operating Lease Commitments 2007 2006 Premises Premises Equipment Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 179 3 156 3 Later than one year and less than five years 434 2 358 4 After five years 491 1 529 1,104 6 1,043 7 During the year $159 million 2006: $155 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2007 is $17 million 2006: $17 million.
144 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 45.
Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal The credit equivalent and risk weighted amounts have been amounts, credit equivalent amounts and risk weighted amounts calculated in accordance with the Financial Services Authority of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet guidelines implementing the Basel Accord on capital adequacy, date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the after taking account of collateral and guarantees received.
volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.. 2007 2006 Contract or Contract or underlying Credit Risk underlying Credit Risk principal equivalent weighted principal equivalent weighted amount amount amount amount amount amount $million $million $million $million $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 25,681 17,629 11,909 18,344 12,784 9,398 Other contingent liabilities 8,038 6,058 4,476 9,046 7,139 5,418 33,719 23,687 16,385 27,390 19,923 14,816 Commitments Documentary credits and short term traderelated transactions 6,504 1,301 1,102 5,029 1,006 845 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 64 64 13 31 31 10 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 13,888 6,944 6,079 14,083 7,042 3,693 Less than one year 18,260 20,543 Unconditionally cancellable 45,279 29,858 83,995 8,309 7,194 69,544 8,079 4,548 Includes amounts relating to the Groups share of its joint ventures.
com 145 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 46.
Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements The Group enters into collateralised reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending transactions.
It also receives securities as collateral for commercial lending.
Balance sheet assets 2007 2006 Reverse Reverse repurchase repurchase agreements agreements $million $million Banks 1,349 1,359 Customers 1,068 630 2,417 1,989 Balance sheet liabilities 2007 2006 Repurchase Repurchase agreements agreements $million $million Banks 2,150 1,449 Customers 364 681 2,514 2,130 Collateral pledged against these liabilities is disclosed in note 22 on page 116.
The terms and conditions relating to the collateral pledged typically permits the collateral to be sold or repledged, subject to the obligation to return the collateral at the end of the agreement.
Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts on such terms are: 2007 2006 $million $million Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold at fair value 2,410 1,379 Thereof repledged transferred to others for financing activities or to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions at fair value 1,714 866 146 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 47.
Liquidity Risk This table analyses assets and liabilities into relevant maturity The Risk Review on pages 43 to 59 explains the Groups groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual and Companys risk management with respect to asset maturity date as at the balance sheet date, on a discounted and liability management.
Contractual maturities do not necessarily reflect actual repayments or cash flow.
The Company has financial liabilities of $1,987 million 2006: $1,977 million maturing in five years or more.
com 147 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 47.
Liquidity Risk continued The following table analyses the contractual cash flows payable Within the More than five years maturity band are undated for the Groups financial liabilities by remaining contractual financial liabilities of $5,640 million 2006: $5,515 million, all of maturities on an undiscounted basis.
The financial liability which relate to subordinated debt, on which interest payments balances in the table below will not agree to the balances are not included as this information would not be meaningful.
reported in the consolidated balance sheet as the table Interest payments on these instruments are included within the incorporates all contractual cash flows, on an undiscounted maturities up to five years.
basis, relating to both principal and interest payments.
2007 2006 Between Between Three three Between Three three Between months or months and one and More than months or months and one and More than less one year five years five years less one year five years five years $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 22,752 1,880 526 133 23,039 3,000 780 192 Customer accounts 158,937 15,896 3,183 1,888 126,458 18,550 3,767 2,051 Financial liabilities at fair value 3,662 3,407 2,463 1,767 2,079 2,451 2,424 892 Derivative financial instruments 420,884 260,597 91,272 22,962 258,936 211,952 63,932 23,773 Debt securities in issue 10,535 10,594 6,242 2,436 7,738 7,983 8,825 900 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 305 1,190 5,476 20,247 205 1,154 5,683 15,447 Other liabilities 10,645 663 437 9,120 7,057 930 354 8,011 Total liabilities 627,720 294,227 109,599 58,533 425,512 246,020 85,765 51,266 Gross loan commitments 20,207 14,215 3,446 293 9,488 16,801 2,570 136 The cash flows presented in the above table reflect the cash flows this table and as a result the derivative amounts in this table are which will be contractually payable over the residual maturity of inflated by their exclusion.
In practice, however, the liability instruments The Company has financial liabilities payable on an undiscounted behave differently from their contractual terms and typically, for basis of $4,655 million 2006: $5,751 million, of which $1,104 short term customer accounts, extend to a longer period than million 2006: $1,167 million matures in three months or less, their contractual maturity.
$101 million 2006: $103 million matures between three months Derivative financial instruments include those net settled derivative and one year, $543 million 2006: $528 million matures between contracts in a net liability position, together with the pay leg of one to five years, and $2,554 million 2006: $2,555 million gross settled contracts regardless of whether the overall contract matures in more than five years.
is in an asset or liability position.
The receive leg is not shown in 148 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 48.
Currency Risk Foreign exchange risk is managed and measured as set out in investments in Group undertakings in a number of currencies.
the Market risk section of the Risk Review on pages 56 to 57.
The subsequent foreign exchange exposures are managed on an individual basis, and are assessed regularly for significant Foreign exchange risk arising within the non-trading portfolio, foreign exchange rate expectations.
The positions are treated as excluding structural positions, is minimised by match funding long-term embedded exposures, and are not treated as trading assets and liabilities in the same foreign currency.
positions, so hedges are considered in certain limited cases.
Structural foreign exchange risks arise from net investments The table below sets out the principal structural foreign exchange in currencies other than US dollars.
The Group has made net exposures of the Group at 31 December 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 $million $million Korean won 5,607 5,225 Hong Kong dollar 5,090 4,743 Indian rupee 2,258 1,682 Taiwanese dollar 1,833 1,397 Thai baht 958 824 UAE dirham 808 655 Singapore dollar 734 1,129 Chinese yuan 727 549 Pakistani rupee 705 668 Malaysian ringgit 674 696 Indonesian rupiah 475 475 Other 1,965 1,518 21,834 19,561 An analysis has been performed on these exposures to assess The Companys assets and liabilities are predominantly in the impact of a one per cent fall in the US dollar exchange rates US dollars.
It has assets of $687 million 2006: $732 million adjusted to incorporate the impacts of correlations.
The impact of and liabilities of $724 million 2006: $738 million other than these on the positions above would be an increase of $91 million US dollars.
Changes in the valuations of these positions are taken to reserves.
49. Credit Risk Maximum exposure to credit risk The table on page 150 presents the Groups maximum strong liquidity and $16.5 billion increase in Wholesale lending exposure to credit risk of the Groups balance sheet and portfolios.
Derivative instruments increased by $13.0 billion as off-balance sheet financial instruments at 31 December 2007, a result of increased volumes in the foreign exchange and before taking into account any collateral held or other credit rates business.
For on-balance sheet instruments, the Collateral is held to mitigate the credit risk exposures primarily maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount in respect of loans and advances, and consisting of residential, reported on the balance sheet.
For off-balance sheet commercial and industrial properties, securities and other assets instruments, the maximum exposure to credit risk represents such as plant and machinery.
Further details of the credit risk the contractual nominal amounts.
mitigation undertaken by the Group is contained within the Risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk has increased Review on page 46. by $59 billion compared to 2006, primarily due to increased lending to banks, up $16.6 billion, reflecting the Groups www.
com 149 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 49. Credit Risk continued Maximum exposure to credit risk continued 2007 2006 $million $million 22,588 15,553 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 26,204 13,154 Loans and advances to banks and customers 189,631 159,024 Investment securities 52,584 48,019 Contingent liabilities 33,719 27,390 Undrawn irrevocable standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 32,148 34,626 356,874 297,766 Excludes equity shares.
In respect of derivative financial instruments, $17,282 million has entered into synthetic loan securitisations and synthetic trade 2006: $6,425 million is available for offset as a result of master receivable securitisations on which it has mitigated certain of the netting agreements which do not meet the criteria under IAS 32 credit risks.
to enable these balances to be presented on a net basis in the The maximum exposure to credit risk of the Company is $2,019 financial statements as in the ordinary course of business they are million 2006: $3,181 million, which relates to amounts owed by not intended to be settled net.
As set out in note 18, the Group subsidiary undertakings.
Summary analysis of the loan portfolio 2007 2006 Loans to Loans to Loans to Loans to customers customers Total customers customers Total Loans to Consumer Wholesale Loans to Loans to Consumer Wholesale Loans to banks Banking Banking customers banks Banking Banking customers $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Individually impaired loans, net of provisions 8 517 364 881 9 909 529 1,438 Past due but not impaired loans 10 4,589 422 5,011 32 4,896 379 5,275 Neither past due nor impaired loans 37,662 77,156 74,469 151,625 21,024 72,878 61,445 134,323 37,680 82,262 75,255 157,517 21,065 78,683 62,353 141,036 Portfolio impairment provision 1 412 123 535 1 446 96 542 37,679 81,850 75,132 156,982 21,064 78,237 62,257 140,494 $2,314 million 2006: $1,340 million of loans to banks is held at and has no individually impaired loans or past due but not fair value and $2,726 million 2006: $1,212 million of loans to impaired loans.
Details of loan loss provisions and individually customers is held at fair value.
The Company has loans neither impaired loans are disclosed in notes 20 and 21. past due nor impaired of $2,019 million 2006: $3,181 million, Loans and advances past due but not individually impaired The following table set out the ageing of loans and advances For Wholesale Banking, individual impairment provisions are which are past due and for which no individual impairment generally raised only when interest and or principal payments provision has been raised.
A loan is considered to be past due are deemed uncollectible.
when the counterparty has failed to make a principal or interest The value of loans past due has declined compared to 2006, payment when contractually due.
Past due does not necessarily primarily within the up to 30 days bucket largely as a result of mean that counterparty is impaired.
improvements in the Consumer Banking collection processes, For Consumer Banking loans, individual impairment provisions particularly in Singapore.
are generally raised at 150 days past due.
2007 2006 Loans to Loans to Loans to Loans to customers customers Total customers customers Total Loans to Consumer Wholesale Loans to Loans to Consumer Wholesale Loans to banks Banking Banking customers banks Banking Banking customers $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Up to 30 days past due 3,559 239 3,798 32 3,911 200 4,111 Between 31 - 60 days past due 536 38 574 553 71 624 Between 61 - 90 days past due 10 342 143 485 284 78 362 Between 91 - 150 days past due 152 2 154 148 30 178 10 4,589 422 5,011 32 4,896 379 5,275 Within loans to banks past due balance, $nil million 2006: $nil and largely comprises residential and commercial property.
million is held at fair value.
Within the Consumer Banking loans The fair value of collateral held against past due but not impaired to customers past due balance, $nil million 2006: $nil million Wholesale Banking loans is $157 million 2006: $161 million and is held at fair value: and within the Wholesale Banking loans to largely comprises property and securities.
customers past due balance, $nil million 2006: $nil million is Where the fair value of collateral held exceeds the outstanding held at fair value.
loan, any excess is paid back to the customers and is not The fair value of collateral held against past due but not impaired available for offset against other loans.
Consumer Banking loans is $4,419 million 2006: $3,444 million 150 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 49. Credit Risk continued Loans and advances neither past due nor impaired The following table set out an analysis of loans and advances to counterparties within credit grades 1 to 5.
Within loans to by internal credit grading which are not past due and for which customers, the proportion of the loan book falling within credit no individual impairment provision has been raised.
The credit grades 1 to 5 has increased from 44 to 46 per cent, which is gradings set out in the table below are based on a probability largely as a result of an increase in the proportion of high quality of default measure as set out on pages 46 and 47 of the Risk lending in the Wholesale Banking portfolio.
The banding reflects managements segmentation of the Banking, the proportion of lending within grades 6 to 8 has credit risk grades.
decreased, and grades 9 to 11 has increased, as changes in methodology led to the re-grading of certain portfolios, largely The increase in loans to banks compared to 2006 is as a result shifting them from grade 8 to grade 9.
The proportion of grade of the placement of excess liquidity with high quality bank 12 loans was maintained at one per cent of the loans to counterparties, resulting in an improvement in the proportion lent customer portfolio.
Within Loans to customers Consumer $nil Grades 6 - 8: and $153 million 2006: $46 million in Grades 9 - 11. million 2006: $nil million is held at fair value.
Within Loans to Renegotiated loans Loans renegotiated which would otherwise be past due or renegotiated either during the year or in previous years is impaired, continue to be accounted for as non-performing until $nil million 2006: $5 million.
a minimum number of payments have been received under the Within the Groups total loans and advances to customers new terms, after which they are considered to be performing which are neither past due nor impaired, loans which have loans.
Loans which are renegotiated to include concessions that been renegotiated either during the year or in previous years the Group would not ordinarily make will usually be impaired and total $1,014 million 2006: $917 million, of which $341 million therefore excluded from this disclosure.
2006: $150 million relates to Wholesale Banking customers Of the Groups total loans and advances to banks which and $1,015 million 2006: $767 million to Consumer are neither past due nor impaired, loans which have been Banking customers.
Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed or called upon During the year, the Group obtained assets by taking possession in excess of the outstanding loan balance they are returned to the of collateral or calling upon other credit enhancements such as borrower.
Certain of the equity securities acquired continue to be guarantees as detailed in the table below.
Repossessed held by the Group for investment purposes and are classified as properties are sold in an orderly fashion.
Where the proceeds are available-for-sale, and the related loan derecognised.
2007 2006 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million 135 69 204 140 9 149 Property 9 9 Debt securities and equity shares 35 5 40 13 3 16 Guarantees 9 58 67 86 1 87 Other 179 132 311 248 13 261 www.
com 151 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 49. Credit Risk continued Debt securities, equity shares and treasury bills Debt securities, equity shares and treasury bills can be analysed as follows: 2007 2006 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury Total securities shares bills Total securities shares bills $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Impaired securities 71 30 17 118 18 34 30 82 Impairment provisions 54 22 2 78 9 23 10 42 Net impaired securities 17 8 15 40 9 11 20 40 Securities neither past due nor impaired 55,063 3,052 15,047 73,162 45,089 1,629 15,920 62,638 55,080 3,060 15,062 73,202 45,098 1,640 15,940 62,678 $3,395 million 2006: $3,418 million of treasury bills and Collateral is held against impaired securities and primarily consists $14,163 million 2006: $9,601 million of debt securities of properties.
The undiscounted fair value of collateral held are held at fair value.
relating to impaired securities is estimated at $24 million 2006: $21 million.
Movements in provisions on impaired securities are disclosed in note 22.
The impaired debt securities largely include the The Company has no debt securities, equity shares or treasury Groups holdings of ABS CDOs, on which a $35 million bills other than investments in subsidiary undertakings.
impairment charge and other writedowns of $87 million were Where the fair value of collateral held exceeds the outstanding taken in 2007.
Further details of these writedowns are set out securities obligations, any excess is paid back to the customers on page 54 of the Risk Review.
and is not available for offset against other securities obligations.
Securities neither past due nor impaired The following table analyses debt securities and treasury bills have a short-term rating are reported against the long-term rating which are neither past due or impaired by external credit rating.
For securities which are unrated, the Group applies The standard credit ratings used by the Group are those used by an internal credit rating as described under Loans and Advances.
Standard & Poors or their equivalent.
Using The increase in AAA debt securities compared to 2006 has internal credit ratings, $2,606 million 2006: $1,353 million of largely been driven by the asset backed securities acquired from these securities are considered to be investment grade and $676 Whistlejacket following the vertical slice transactions.
Further million 2006: $724 million sub-investment grade.
details of these transactions are set out in note 52 and within the Risk Review on page 54.
152 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 50.
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
2007 2006 Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value $million $million $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 10,175 10,175 7,698 7,698 Loans and advances to banks 35,365 35,316 19,724 19,727 Loans and advances to customers 154,266 153,828 139,300 139,654 Investment securities 2,819 2,779 2,786 2,754 Liabilities Deposits by banks 25,880 25,844 26,233 26,184 Customer accounts 179,760 179,694 147,382 147,492 Debt securities in issue 27,137 27,072 23,514 23,518 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 15,740 15,029 12,699 12,877 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
The book amount includes adjustments as a result of fair value hedging relationships.
The following sets out the Groups basis of establishing fair sub-prime mortgage crisis in the United States.
Approximately values of the financial instruments shown above and those half of the portfolio reprices within one month, and over 80 per financial assets classified as available-for-sale and financial cent reprices within 12 months.
The fair value of loans and assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss advances to customers is therefore close to the book amount.
The Groups Investment securities basis for establishing the fair value of financial assets and Investment securities with observable market prices, liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and of including debt and equity securities, are fair valued using derivatives is set out in note 1. that information.
Debt securities that do not have observable Cash and balances at central banks market data are fair valued by either discounting cash flows The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit carrying amounts.
risk and remaining maturity or using quoted market prices for securities with similar credit, maturity and yield characteristics.
Loans and advances to banks The fair value of floating rate placements and overnight Deposits and borrowings deposits is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity of fixed interest bearing deposits is based on discounted cash is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value flows using the prevailing money-market rates for debts with a of fixed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings without similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
quoted market prices is based on discounting cash flows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit Loans and advances to customers risk and remaining maturity.
Loans and advances are net of provisions for impairment.
The estimated fair value of loans and advances represents Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other the discounted amount of future cash flows expected to be borrowed funds received, including assumptions relating to prepayment rates.
The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted Expected cash flows are discounted at current market rates market prices.
For those notes where quoted market prices to determine fair value.
The Groups loan portfolio is well are not available, a discounted cash flow model is used based diversified by geography and industry and is in markets that on a current market related yield curve appropriate for the have had little contagion from the turmoil brought about by the remaining term to maturity.
com 153 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 51.
Restatement of Prior Periods Acquisitions In the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2006, adjustment to goodwill, increasing goodwill on acquisition the fair value amounts in relation to the acquisitions of Union relating to Union and Hsinchu respectively by $8 million and Hsinchu contained some provisional balances.
During the to $414 million and by $93 million to $1,041 million.
The year to 31 December 2007, certain of these balances have adjustments primarily relate to a reassessment of the value of been revised.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business certain loan assets, investment debt securities and retirement Combinations, the adjustments to the provisional balances benefit obligations, together with associated deferred tax.
The have been made as at the date of acquisition and the 2006 income statement for 2006 has not been restated, because balance sheet amounts restated, with a corresponding any effect is immaterial.
Fair value Fair value adjustment As reported at adjustment Restated at Reclassification to Hsinchu 2006 to Union 2006 $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to customers 139,330 10 20 139,300 Investment securities 49,487 10 49,497 Goodwill and intangible assets 6,146 8 93 6,247 Property, plant and equipment 2,168 1 1 2,168 Deferred tax assets 538 3 7 36 512 Retirement benefit obligations 472 89 8 553 Other liabilities 11,355 4 28 11,331 Minority interests 544 2 542 Cash Flow Statement The following items have been re-presented in the Group Other accounts and Assets written off, net of recoveries.
and Company cash flow statements for the year ended The remaining balance of $158 million represents the non-cash 31 December 2006: income statement items relating to recoveries of acquisition fair values and discount unwind and has been re-named net cash flow from operating activities increased by $254 accordingly as Recoveries of acquisition fair values and million, and net cash from financing activities decreased by discount unwind: and $254 million, following the separate identification of the outflow on the redemption of the preference shares of $328 million in the Group cash flow statement only, the purchase of own and the inflow from certain of the proceeds from the issues shares and the inflow from the exercise of share options has of ordinary share capital of $74 million, both of which were been presented on a gross basis within net cash from previously included in other movements within net cash flow financing activities.
from operating activities: The net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the Group in the Group cash flow statement only, a reclassification within and Company cash flow statements has been unaffected by cash flow from operating activities of $782 million between these reclassifications.
154 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 52.
Related Party Transactions Directors and Officers Directors emoluments Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages 73 to 85.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises members of the Group Management Committee, which includes all executive and non-executive directors.
2007 2006 $million $million Salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 19 14 Pension contributions 6 5 Bonuses paid or receivable 23 17 Share based payments 22 16 70 52 Transactions with directors, officers and others At 31 December 2007, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 1985 the Act and the HK Listing Rules about loans to directors and officers were as follows: 2007 2006 Number $000 Number $000 Directors 1 14 Officers 4 7,090 2 203 For this disclosure, the term Officers means the members of the Group Management Committee, other than those who are directors of Standard Chartered PLC, and the Company Secretary.
Mr Sunil Mittal, appointed as an independent non-executive operating income.
The portfolio of debt securities acquired director of Standard Chartered PLC with effect from 1 August totalled $3.4 billion and has been classified as available-for-sale.
2007, is Chairman and Group CEO of the Bharti Enterprises In addition to these transactions, the Group acquired $1.7 billon Group.
Due to his significant voting power in the Bharti of assets, some of which were subsequently sold, without any Enterprises Group, it is a related party of Standard Chartered significant profit and loss impact.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group has loans to the Bharti Open ended investment company Enterprises Group of $123 million, guarantees of $47 million and Standard Chartered Global Liquidity Funds p. l. c. is an openforeign exchange deals with a notional value of $52 million.
ended investment company domiciled in Ireland and has a single As at 31 December 2007, Standard Chartered Bank had created sub-fund, the US Dollar Liquidity Fund.
The Fund is a Treasury a charge over $24 million 2006: $5 million of cash assets in Style Institutional Money Market Fund that holds a Aaa MR1 favour of the independent trustees of its employer financial rating from Moody's Investor services and is managed to retirement benefit schemes.
maximise current income consistent with the preservation of capital and liquidity and is structured to maintain a stable net Other than as disclosed in this Annual Report and Accounts, asset value per share of $1.00 with the income distributed in there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements the form of dividends.
As at 31 December 2007, the Fund had outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the $1,325 million in assets under management.
Standard Chartered Company which have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules Bank is the Investment Manager and Distributor of the Fund and of the UK Listing Authority or the HK Listing Rules.
has an investment in the shares of $251 million.
Joint ventures Company The Group has loans and advances to PT Bank Permata Tbk The Company has received $95 million of interest income from totalling $4 million at 31 December 2007 2006: $8 million, Standard Chartered Bank.
The Company issues debt externally and deposits of $7 million 2006: $nil million.
and lends the proceeds to Group companies.
At 31 December Associates 2007, it has loans to and debt instruments issued by Standard During 2007, the Group acquired a 30 per cent holding in Chartered Bank of $343 million 2006: $3,180 million, loans MCashback Limited for $36 million.
of $77 million 2006: $nil million to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited and loans of $1 million 2006: $1 million During 2007, the Group contributed $11 million to the to other subsidiaries.
establishment of Merchant Solutions Limited.
At 31 December 2007, the Company had no amounts owed to At 31 December 2007, the Group has loans and advances to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited 2006: $1,151 million.
China Bohai Bank Limited of $nil million 2006: $54 million.
In 2006, the Company licensed intellectual property rights related Structured investment vehicles to the Companys main brands to an indirect wholly owned Whistlejacket Capital Limited Whistlejacket is a structured subsidiary, Standard Chartered Strategic Brand Management investment vehicle sponsored by the Group.
In November Limited SCSBM, the income for which is held on the and December 2007, the Group entered into two vertical slice Companys balance sheet and released as income over the term transactions to acquire a portfolio of Whistlejackets securities, of the license.
The Company entered into an agreement to pay settled by a cash payment, which is net of the redemption value a partial rebate of the initial licence value to SCSBM in January of the capital notes invested by the Group in the vehicle.
This amounted to $1,089 million, which has been included capital notes were redeemed at net asset value, crystallising a as amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings at 31 December loss for the Group of $116 million, which is reported within Other www.
com 155 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 52.
As a consequence, in the year ended 31 December 2007, The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered the Company has written back $192 million of income recognised Bank that in the event of the Bank defaulting on its debt coupon in prior years.
At the year end $311 million 2006: $1,362 million interest payments, where the terms of such debt requires it, the has been included as deferred income in the Company balance Company shall issue shares as settlement for non-payment of the sheet in relation to this license.
Post Balance Sheet Events Group one of which was that enforcement proceedings had not The Group announced, on 18 September 2007, the acquisition commenced.
On 11 February 2008, Whistlejacket advised that of American Express Bank Limited AEB, from American it had breached its capital note Net Asset Value NAV trigger Express Company for a total cash consideration equal to the of 50 per cent.
The breach of the trigger was an enforcement net asset value of AEB at completion plus $300 million.
The event, which required the security trustee, BNY Corporate transaction will complete on 29 February 2008.
Trustee Service, to appoint a receiver to manage Whistlejacket.
As a result, the proposal announced on 31 January 2008 lapsed.
On 11 January 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of a However, the Group continued to discuss with the receiver 49 per cent stake in UTI Securities Limited, an equity brokerage alternative arrangements to provide liquidity.
Subsequently on firm in India.
20 February 2008, the Group announced that it had withdrawn On 11 January 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of a the conditional proposals made to the receiver as a result of a Korean mutual savings bank, Yeahreum Mutual Savings Bank number of factors, including the pace of continuing deterioration which was completed on 25 February 2008. in the market for certain assets classes and the impracticality of completing any proposal within the confines of the receivership On 31 January 2008, the Group announced that it intended to as it has evolved.
provide liquidity to Whistlejacket subject to certain pre-conditions, 54.
Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and losses identified could differ significantly from the impairment liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the effects of provisions reported as a result of uncertainties arising from the uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the economic environment.
The Groups estimates and assumptions are Fair value of financial instruments based on historical experience and expectation of future events Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, and are reviewed periodically.
This disclosure excludes or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an uncertainty over future events and judgements in respect of arms length transaction.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which estimation uncertainty, are set out in the notes.
is normally the transaction price.
In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a valuation technique which Loan loss provisioning may lead to the recognition of profits or losses at the time of initial The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise recognition.
However, these profits or losses can only be incurred impairment losses either on specific loan assets or within recognised when the valuation technique used is based solely a portfolio of loans and receivables.
Impairment losses for specific loan assets are assessed either on Subsequent to initial recognition, some of the Groups financial an individual or on a portfolio basis.
Individual impairment losses instruments are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value are determined as the difference between the carrying value and either reported within the income statement or within equity until the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the instrument is sold or becomes impaired.
Details of the type the loans original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and classification of the Groups financial instruments are set out determined on a portfolio basis are assessed based on the in notes 14 and 16 to the accounts and the accounting policy set probability of default inherent within the portfolio of impaired out in note 1 to the accounts.
In addition to these instruments, loans or receivables.
the carrying value of a financial instrument carried at amortised Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves cost that is the hedged item in a qualifying fair value hedge significant judgement, and considers the level of arrears as well relationship is adjusted by the fair value gain or loss attributable as the assessment of matters such as future economic conditions to the hedged risk.
and the value of collateral, for which there may not be a readily The fair values of quoted financial instruments in active markets accessible market.
are based on current prices.
If the market for a financial Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been instrument is not active, and for unlisted securities, the Group separately identified at the balance sheet date are determined establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include on a portfolio basis, which takes into account past loss the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow experience as a result of uncertainties arising from the economic analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques environment, and defaults based on portfolio trends.
Actual commonly used by market participants.
156 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 54.
Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued Where representative prices are unreliable because of illiquid Pensions markets, the determination of fair value may require estimation Actuarial assumptions are made in valuing future defined benefit of certain parameters, which are calibrated against industry pension obligations as set out in note 36 and are updated standards and observable market data, or the use of valuation periodically.
The principal assumptions relate to the rate of models that are based on observable market data.
inflation and the discount rate.
The assumed rate of inflation affects the rate at which salaries grow and therefore the size of The fair value for the majority of the Groups financial instruments the pensions that employees receive on retirement.
The discount is based on observable market prices or derived from observable rate is equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds which market parameters.
The most significant element of Group assets have a term to maturity approximating that of the related liability, in which observable prices are not available relates to certain and is potentially subject to significant variation.
As a result, there instruments held within the Asset Backed Securities portfolio.
At is uncertainty that these assumptions will continue in the future.
31 December 2007, assets with a market value of $1.5 billion For example, if the discount rate for the UK fund increased by were held in respect of which there was no observable market 25 basis points, the liability would reduce by approximately data.
For these instruments, changing one or more of the $66 million, and vice versa.
Whilst changes in other assumptions assumptions used to reasonably possible alternatives would would have an impact, the effect would not be as significant.
not significantly change their fair value.
Taxes Equity investments that do not have an observable market price Determining income tax provisions involves judgement on the tax are fair valued by applying various valuation techniques, such as treatment of certain transactions.
Deferred tax is recognised on earnings multiples, net assets multiples, discounted cash flows, tax losses not yet used and on temporary differences where it is and industry valuation benchmarks.
These techniques are probable that there will be taxable revenue against which these generally applied prior to any initial public offering, after which an can be offset.
Management has made judgements as to the observable market price becomes available.
Disposal of such probability of tax losses being available for offset at a later date.
investments are generally by market trades or private sales.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Goodwill impairment The Group receives legal claims against it in the normal course An annual assessment is made, as set out in note 25, as to of business.
Management has made judgements as to the whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
likelihood of any claim succeeding in making provisions.
The Detailed calculations are performed based on discounting time of concluding legal claims is uncertain, as is the amount of expected pre-tax cash flows of the relevant cash generating possible outflow of economic benefits.
Timing and cost ultimately units and discounting these at an appropriate discount rate, depends on the due process in respective legal jurisdictions.
the determination of which requires the exercise of judgement.
Share based payments Acquired intangible assets Equity-settled share awards are recognised as an expense based Acquired intangible assets are those that derive their value on their fair value at date of grant.
The fair value of equity-settled from contractual customer relationships or that can be share options is estimated through the use of option valuation separated and sold, and are amortised over their estimated models which require inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, useful lives.
They comprise customer relationships, core deposits, expected dividends, expected volatility and the expected option brands and acquired licences.
The valuation and estimated useful life and is expensed over the vesting period.
Some of the inputs lives of customer relationships, core deposits and brands is used, such as the expected option life, are not market observable dependent on a number of assumptions and judgements, such and are based on estimates derived from available data, such as as expected cash flows, customer attrition, royalty rates and employee exercise behaviour.
The models utilised, such as the applicable costs, variations in which could produce different binomial option pricing model, are intended to value options values and or useful lives.
The share options issued by the For example, if the royalty rates were increased by one per cent Group, however, have a number of features that make them per annum or decreased by one per cent per annum the value incomparable to such traded options.
Using different input of the brand names acquired in the acquisitions in 2007 would estimates or models could produce different option values, increase by approximately $3 million or decrease by $3 million.
which would result in the recognition of a higher or lower Likewise, if the attrition rates were increased by four per cent per expense.
For example, if the volatility assumption was increased annum or decreased by four per cent per annum the value of the by five per cent or decreased by five per cent, the fair values for customer relationships acquired in the acquisitions in 2007 would options granted under the Sharesave schemes in 2007 would decrease by approximately $10 million or increase by increase by approximately 0.28 for 3 year grants, and by 0.39 approximately $10 million.
for 5 year grants or decrease by approximately 0.20 for 3 year grants, and by 0.32 for 5 year grants.
Acquired licences are valued at their purchase price and amortised over the period of the licence.
com 157 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts Notes to the Accounts continued 55.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The following pronouncements relevant and applicable to the and whose use is therefore permitted, have not been applied Group and Company were issued as at 31 December 2007 in preparing these financial statements.
but have effective dates for periods beginning after 31 The full impact of these IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations December 2007.
The use of IFRSs and certain IFRIC is currently being assessed by the Group: none of these Interpretations that have yet to be endorsed by the European pronouncements are expected to result in any material Union is not permitted.
Those IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations adjustments to the financial statements.
listed below that have been endorsed by the European Union, Latest effective date for the Pronouncement Description of impact Group and Company IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury IFRIC 11 clarifies the treatment in the subsidiarys accounts 1 January 2008 Share Transactions for share awards made by the parent to the employees of a subsidiary.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 supersedes IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires 1 January 2009 the reporting of operating segments on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating performance.
IFRIC 13 Accounting for Customer IFRIC 13 clarifies that consideration received for the sale of 1 January 2009 Loyalty Programmes services for which customer loyalty awards are awarded is allocated between the service delivered and the award credit, based on the fair value of the credit awarded.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on Defined IFRIC 14 requires the recognition of defined benefit assets to 1 January 2008 Benefit Asset Minimum Funding the extent that the Group has the right to an unconditional Requirements and their Interaction refund during the life of the plan, or assuming the gradual settlement of the plans liabilities or assuming full settlement of the plans liabilities.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IAS 23 has been revised to remove the option to expense 1 January 2009 borrowing costs incurred in respect of the construction and development of qualifying assets.
Such costs will now be capitalised as a part of the cost of the asset.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial IAS 1 Revised provides the option to either disclose all non-owner 1 January 2009 Statements changes in equity in one statement of Comprehensive Income or continue to disclose two statements.
The standard also requires an additional balance sheet to be presented at the beginning of the earliest comparative period when a change in accounting policy is applied retrospectively or a retrospective restatement is made.
Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated This amendment changes the treatment for part disposals, both 1 January 2010 and Separate Financial Statements when control is retained which is accounted for as an equity transaction, generating no profit or loss in the income statement and when control is lost where the residual holding is measured at fair value with any changes reflected in income.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 3 Revised requires acquisition costs to be expensed and 1 January 2010 not capitalised: an estimate of cash contingent consideration to be made at the date of acquisition, with any future changes recognised in income: provides the option to recognise 100 per cent of the goodwill of an acquired entity in a partial acquisition.
The Standard can be applied early, on a prospective basis, for annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2007.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based The amendments clarify the definition of vesting conditions 1 January 2009 payment and the accounting treatment of cancellations by employees, whereby such cancellations will immediately result in the recognition of the amount of the expense that would otherwise have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial This amendment is in respect of the balance sheet classification 1 January 2009 Instruments: Presentation of puttable financial instruments and obligations arising only on liquidation.
Some financial instruments that currently meet the definition of a financial liability may be classified as equity if they represent the last residual interest in the net assets of an entity.
This IFRS or IFRIC Interpretation has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
The Group has not yet made a final decision as to whether it will apply in the 2008 financial statements those pronouncements marked in the table above.
158 S Standar tandard d Charter Chartered ed Annual Annual Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 56.
UK and Hong Kong Accounting Requirements As required by the HK Listing Rules, an explanation of the Reporting Standards.
As set out in note 55, EU endorsed differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRSs published by the International IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is Accounting Standards Board if a standard has not been summarised below.
endorsed by the European Union.
There would be no significant differences had these accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial www.
com 159 Financial Statements and Notes to the Accounts
