NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued NOTE 2 SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our ACCOUNTING POLICIES ships are capitalized to the ships, and depreciated over the improvements estimated useful lives, while costs of repairs Basis of Presentation and maintenance, including minor improvement costs, are We consolidate entities over which we have control see charged to expense as incurred.
We capitalize interest as part notes 3 and 15, as typically evidenced by a direct ownership of acquiring ships and other capital projects during their coninterest of greater than 50%.
For affiliates where significant struction period.
the specifically identified or estimated cost influence over financial and operating policies exists, as typiand accumulated depreciation of previously capitalized ship cally evidenced by a direct ownership interest from 20% to components are written off upon replacement or refurbishment.
50%, the investment is accounted for using the equity method.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Cash and cash equivalents include investments with maturamount of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
the ities of three months or less at acquisition, which are stated assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to at cost.
at november 30, 2007 and 2006, cash and cash recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate equivalents are primarily comprised of money market funds, of its undiscounted future cash flows.
if these estimated time deposits and commercial paper.
undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying as of november 30, 2007 and 2006, our short-term investvalue of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the ments were not significant.
purchases and sales of short-term excess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated investments included in our Consolidated Statements of Cash fair value.
Flows consisted of investments with original maturities greater Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major maintethan three months with variable interest rates, which typically finance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out of reset every 28 days.
Despite the long-term nature of their service for scheduled maintenance.
these costs are expensed stated contractual maturities, we generally had the ability to as incurred.
quickly liquidate these securities and, accordingly, they are Goodwill considered short-term investments.
all income generated from We review our goodwill for impairment annually, or, when these investments is recorded as interest income.
events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
all of our goodwill has been allocated to our cruise reporting units.
the Inventories significant changes to our goodwill carrying amounts since inventories consist of provisions, gift shop and art merchannovember 30, 2005 were the changes resulting from using dise held for resale, fuel and supplies carried at the lower of different foreign currency translation rates at each balance cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average sheet date, the addition of $161 million of ibero Cruises goodor first-in, first-out methods.
will in fiscal 2007 see note 15, and the $20 million reduction Property and Equipment to goodwill in fiscal 2006 resulting from the resolution of property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation certain p&o princess Cruises plcs p&o princess tax and amortization were computed using the straight-line method contingency liabilities that existed at the time of the DlC over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, transaction.
as a percentage of original cost, as follows: our goodwill impairment reviews consist of a two-step residual process of first determining the fair value of the reporting unit values Years and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets alloShips............................. 15% 30 cated to the reporting unit.
Fair values of our reporting units Ship improvements.................. 0% or 15% 328 were determined based on our estimates of market values.
if Buildings and improvements.......... 010% 535 this fair value exceeds the carrying value, which was the case Computer hardware and software...... 010% 37 for our reporting units, no further analysis or goodwill writetransportation equipment and other.... 015% 220 down is required.
if the fair value of the reporting unit is less leasehold improvements, including than the carrying value of the net assets, the implied fair value port facilities.....................
Shorter of of the reporting unit is allocated to all the underlying assets and lease term liabilities, including both recognized and unrecognized tangible or related and intangible assets, based on their fair value.
if necessary, asset life goodwill is then written down to its implied fair value.
10 | Carnival Corporation & plC During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, all net changes in the Trademarks fair value of both our fair value hedges and the offsetting the costs of developing and maintaining our trademarks hedged firm commitments and our cash flow hedges were are expensed as incurred.
For certain of our acquisitions we immaterial, as were any ineffective portions of these hedges.
have allocated a portion of the purchase prices to the acquirees no fair value hedges or cash flow hedges were derecognized identified trademarks.
trademarks are estimated to have an or discontinued in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. in addition, the indefinite useful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, but amount of realized net losses or gains from cash flow hedges are reviewed for impairment annually, or, when events or that were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2007, 2006 circumstances dictate, more frequently.
our trademarks would and 2005 were not significant.
the amount of estimated cash be considered impaired if their carrying value exceeds their flow hedges unrealized net losses which are expected to be estimated fair value.
reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is also Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities not significant.
We utilize derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, if any shipyard with which we have contracts to build our such as foreign currency swaps, foreign currency debt obligaships is unable to perform, we would be required to perform tions and foreign currency cash balances, to limit our exposure under our foreign currency swaps related to these shipbuilding to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and interest contracts.
accordingly, based upon the circumstances, we rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure and to may have to discontinue the accounting for those currency achieve a desired proportion of variable and fixed rate debt swaps as hedges, if the shipyard cannot perform.
However, see notes 5 and 10. we believe that the risk of shipyard nonperformance is remote.
all derivatives are recorded at fair value, and the changes in fair value are immediately included in earnings if the derivaRevenue and Expense Recognition tives do not qualify as being effective hedges.
if a derivative Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and are is a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when received.
derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of the Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as cruise underlying hedged item.
if a derivative is a cash flow hedge, revenues, together with revenues from onboard and other then changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized activities, which include transportation and shore excursion as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income revenues and all associated direct costs of a voyage, upon aoCi until the underlying hedged item is recognized in completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or less and earnings.
if a derivative or a nonderivative financial instrument on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
Future is designated as a hedge of our net investment in a foreign travel discount vouchers issued to guests are typically recorded subsidiary, then changes in the fair value of the financial as a reduction of revenues when such vouchers are utilized.
instrument are recognized as a component of aoCi to offset Cancellation fees are recognized in revenues at the time of a portion of the change in the translated value of the net the cancellation.
revenues and expenses from our tour and investment being hedged, until the investment is liquidated.
travel services are recognized at the time the services are We formally document all hedging relationships for all deriperformed or expenses are incurred.
port and other taxes vative and nonderivative hedges and the underlying hedged assessed on a per guest basis by a government or quasiitems, as well as our risk management objectives and strategovernmental entity are excluded from expenses as they are gies for undertaking the hedge transactions.
presented on a net basis against the corresponding amounts We classify the fair value of our derivative contracts and collected from our guests, which are excluded from revenues.
the fair value of our offsetting hedged firm commitments as our sale to guests of air and other transportation to and either current or long-term, which are included in prepaid from our ships and the related cost of purchasing this service expenses and other assets and accrued and other liabilities, is recorded as cruise passenger ticket revenues and cruise depending on whether the maturity date of the derivative transportation costs, respectively.
the proceeds that we collect contract is within or beyond one year from our balance sheet from the sale of third party shore excursions and on behalf dates.
the cash flows from derivatives treated as hedges are of onboard concessionaires, net of the amounts remitted to classified in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in them, are recorded as concession revenues, on a net basis, the same category as the item being hedged.
in onboard and other cruise revenues.
Carnival Corporation & plC | 11 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued addition, the unrealized exchange gains or losses on our longInsurance Self-Insurance term intercompany receivables denominated in a non-functional We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for currency, which are not expected to be repaid in the foreseea number of risks including claims related to crew and guests, able future and are therefore considered to form part of our hull and machinery, war risk, workers compensation, property net investments, are recorded as a foreign currency translation damage and general liability.
liabilities associated with certain adjustment, which is included as a component of aoCi.
net of these risks, including crew and guest claims, are estimated foreign currency transaction gains or losses recorded in our actuarially based on, among other things, historical claims earnings were insignificant in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. experience, loss development factors and other assumptions.
our expected loss accruals are based on estimates, and while Earnings Per Share we believe the amounts accrued are adequate, the ultimate Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income loss may differ from the amounts provided.
by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock Selling and Administrative Expenses and ordinary shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted Selling expenses include items such as advertising, marearnings per share is computed by dividing adjusted net keting, promotional and related costs.
advertising costs are income by the weighted-average number of shares of comcharged to expense as incurred except for brochures and mon stock and ordinary shares, common stock equivalents media production costs.
the brochures and media production and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during each costs are recorded as prepaid expenses and charged to period.
For earnings per share purposes, Carnival Corporation expense as consumed or upon the first airing of the advertisecommon stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares are considered ment, respectively.
advertising expenses totaled $508 million, a single class of shares because of their equivalent rights see $464 million and $455 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, note 3. all shares that are issuable under our outstanding respectively.
at november 30, 2007 and 2006, the amount of convertible notes that have contingent share conversion advertising costs included in prepaid expenses was not sigfeatures have been considered outstanding for our diluted nificant.
administrative expenses represent the costs of our earnings per share computations, if dilutive, using the if shoreside ship support, reservation and other administrative converted method of accounting from the date of issuance.
functions and include items such as salaries and related beneShare-Based Compensation fits, professional fees and occupancy costs, which are typiEffective December 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions of cally expensed as incurred.
Statement of Financial accounting Standard SFaS no.
123 revised 2004, Share-Based payment SFaS no.
123 r, Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions which requires us to measure and recognize compensation We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign subexpense for all share-based compensation awards.
We adopted sidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U. S. SFaS no.
123 r using the modified prospective application dollar at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates.
Under this method, the share-based comrevenues and expenses of these foreign subsidiaries are pensation cost recognized beginning December 1, 2005 translated at weighted-average exchange rates for the period.
includes compensation cost for i all share-based payments Equity is translated at historical rates and the resulting cumugranted prior to, but not vested as of, December 1, 2005, lative foreign currency translation adjustments are included based on the grant date fair value originally estimated in accoras a component of aoCi.
therefore, the U. S. dollar value of dance with the provisions of SFaS no.
123, accounting for these non-equity translated items in our financial statements Stock-Based Compensation SFaS no.
123, and ii all will fluctuate from period to period, depending on the changing value of the dollar against these non-U.
S. dollar functional share-based payments granted subsequent to november 30, currencies.
2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordExchange gains and losses arising from the remeasurement ance with the provisions of SFaS no.
123 r. prior to of monetary assets and liabilities, and foreign currency transDecember 1, 2005, as allowed under the then outstanding actions denominated in a currency other than the functional accounting principles, we did not recognize compensation currency of the entity involved are immediately included in expense for the issuance of stock options with an exercise nonoperating earnings, unless such assets and net liabilities price equal to or greater than the market price of the underhave been designated to act as hedges of ship commitments lying shares at the date of grant.
or net investments in our foreign subsidiaries, respectively.
