Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 80 Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting contains important information and requires your attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult with an appropriate adviser.
NOTICE is hereby given that the twelfth Annual General Meeting of SVG Capital plc will be held at 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 7 May 2008 at 111 Strand, London WC2R 0AG, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 10 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 11 to 13 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To approve a final dividend of 6.5p per share for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To re-elect Damon Buffini as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Nicholas Ferguson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Francis Finlay as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Anthony Habgood as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Edgar Koning as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That, in substitution for the authority granted at the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2007, the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 : a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,390,644 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 April 2008 in connection with the SVG Capital plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: and b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 46,354,811 equivalent to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 April 2008, which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That, in substitution for the authority granted at the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2007, the Board be and is hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 above, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,390,644 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 April 2008 in connection with the SVG Capital plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: b the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of ordinary shareholders on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever : and c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,906,443 equivalent to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 April 2008, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 20,845,758 equivalent to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 April 2008 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share is 1.00: c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to the greater of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade in the shares of that class and the highest then current independent bid for the shares of that class on the London Stock Exchange: d purchases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the Shares are at the date of the proposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to the net asset value: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That, with effect from the end of the meeting, the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
Registered office 31 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QA By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 2 April 2008 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 81 Explanatory notes and additional information 1.
In common with many UK listed companies, it is necessary to amend the Companys Articles of Association to reflect the changes to UK company law made by the Companies Act 2006.
Many provisions of the new Companies Act which will have an impact on the Companys Articles of Association will be brought into force in 2009 and we therefore plan to propose a number of amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at next years Annual General Meeting.
However, to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 coming into force on 1 October 2008, we are asking shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting to approve an amendment of the Companys Articles of Association relating to the way in which the Company deals with any actual or potential conflicts of interest of directors.
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The amended Articles will give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards that will apply when the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
A blacklined version of the proposed new Articles of Association are available from the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at the registered office of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and by any person attending the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share s held by such member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms appointing proxies must be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Registrars, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholders registered in the Register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 5 May 2008 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of members after 6.00 p. m. on 5 May 2008 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 2 April 2008, 139,064,434 ordinary shares of 1.00 each were in issue, none of which were held as treasury shares.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights of the Company as at 2 April 2008 was 139,064,434.
Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors and a statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in the shares of the Company, will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at the registered office of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and by any person attending the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors has a contract of service with the Company.
The profile of each Director offering himself for re-election is set out on pages 28 and 29 of the annual report and accounts of SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting services provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
