21 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions between the Company and any related parties.
Accordingly, the disclosures required are set out below: Directors The remuneration of the directors is set out in the Report on directors remuneration on page 22.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was interested and which are or were significant in relation to the Companys business.
There were no other material transactions during the year with the directors of the Company.
Details of the management fees paid and payable to the Manager are set out in note 5.
22 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys investing activities undertaken in pursuit of its investment objective as set out on page 1 involve certain inherent risks.
The main risk arising from the Companys financial instruments are market price risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
In line with the Companys investment objective, the portfolio comprises UK securities and therefore, has no exposure to foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks as summarised below.
These policies have remained substantially unchanged during the current and preceding periods.
Market price risk Market risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Companys business.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting it receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
In addition, financial information is circulated to the directors on a monthly basis.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The Companys borrowings have the effect of increasing the risk faced by shareholders.
This gearing effect is such that, for example, for a 10% movement in the valuation of the Companys investments, the net assets attributable to shareholders would move by approximately 11.3%.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of movements in the value of financial instruments that arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates.
The Company finances its operations through retained profits including realised and unrealised capital profits, and additional financing is obtained through the two debenture stocks in issue, on which interest is paid at a fixed rate.
Liquidity risk The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable securities, which can be sold to meet funding commitments if necessary.
Short term flexibility is achieved through the use of cash balances and short term bank deposits.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk the failure of a counterparty to a transaction to discharge its obligations under that transaction could result in loss to the Company.
There are currently no arrangements in place which give exposure to credit risk.
Financial assets Interest rate risk The majority of the Companys financial assets are equity shares and other investments which neither pay interest nor have a maturity date with the exception of the Companys fixed interest holdings which have a market value of 28,534,000, representing 5.77% of net assets of 494,340,000 2006: 1,470,000: 0.3%.
The weighted average running yield as at 31 December 2007 was 4.18% 2006: 7.99% and the weighted average remaining life was 1.4 years 2006: 9 years.
The Companys cash balances of 3,412,000 2006: 15,750,000 earn interest calculated by reference to LIBOR.
All of the Companys assets are denominated in Sterling.
