Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 revised December 2005 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds unless otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Presentation of income statement In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Foreign currency translation These financial statements are prepared in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group and the Company operates.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
