Notice of Meeting NOTICE OF MEETING: NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty second Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Monday 31 March 2008 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1. to approve the group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon, 2. to approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2007, 3. to declare a final dividend of 21.07p per ordinary share, 4. to re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director, 5. to re-elect Mr M R Riley as a director, 6. to re-elect Mr F L J Walton as a director, 7. to re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director, 8. to re-appoint the auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following special resolution: 9.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 8,745,277 being 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Dated this 12th day of February, 2008 By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade For Investec Investment Management Limited Secretary 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Temple Bar Investment Trust 47 CHEAPSIDE NEWGATE STREET GRESHAM STREET Notice of Meeting continued Museum of London LONDON WALL Shown is a plan of the location of Investec St Barts Investment Management Hospital Limited, 2 Gresham Street, ANGEL ST. London EC2V 7QP where the Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 31 March 2008 at 11.00 a. m. ST PAULS St Pauls Cathedral NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in respect of a specified number of shares within his holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and must indicate the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6EF so as to arrive no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Companys register of members by 6.00 p. m. on 29 March 2008 in order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting.
Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under section 146 of the Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
As at 12 February 2008, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 58,340,742 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 58,340,742 voting rights.
T S E U G A T N O M. T S NOBLE ST STREET D R A W D FOSTER LA WOOD E G N I K ST MARTINS LE GRAND
