14 Contingent liabilities No contingent liabilities existed as at either 30 April 2007 or 30 April 2006.
15 Financial commitments There were no financial commitments at either 30 April 2007 or 30 April 2006.
16 Post balance sheet events The only post balance sheet event is in respect of the proposed dividend, which has been disclosed in Note 12.
17 Risk management In pursuing the investment objectives set out on page 17 of this Report the Company holds a number of financial instruments.
These comprise: Equity shares held in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and policies: Cash, liquid resources and short term debtors that arise directly from its operations: and Shareholders funds, representing investors monies, which are invested on their behalf.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market price, foreign currency, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks.
The Investment Manager reviews policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
These policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which these financial statements relate.
Market price risk Market risk arises mainly from uncertainties about future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Directors meet quarterly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to minimise the risk associated with particular countries or industry sectors whilst continuing to follow the investment objectives.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selected in accordance with the overall asset allocation parameters described above and seeks to ensure that individual stocks also meet the risk reward profile that is acceptable.
The Investment Manager does not use derivative instruments to hedge the investment portfolio against market risk, as in its opinion, the cost of such a process would result in an unacceptable reduction in the potential for capital growth.
Foreign currency risk Currency translation movements can significantly affect the income and capital value of the Companys investments as the majority of the Companys assets and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59
