HOWTOINVEST There are two ways of purchasing shares in TEMIT: For more information contact your financial adviser or call us free on 0800 305 306.
1 Through the Templeton Investment Plan.
Alternatively, you can visit the Franklin Templeton Investments website at: Through the Templeton Investment Plan, investors www.
have a cost-effective and straightforward route for investing in TEMIT.
The Plan currently has approximately 5,000 members.
The Plan is This report does not constitute or form part of any offer designed to accommodate the needs of an investor, for shares or an invitation to apply for shares.
The price whether he or she wishes to: of shares and income from them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount that you invest a regular monthly or quarterly amount invested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future minimum 50 monthly or 150 quarterly.
Currency fluctuations will affect the value make occasional lump sum investments initial of overseas investments.
Emerging Markets can be more minimum 250, minimum subsequent risky than Developed Markets.
Please consult your investments 50. professional adviser before deciding to invest.
Directly in the stock market through a stockbroker.
2 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC  The Adelphi 1-11 John Adam Street London WC2N 6HT UK Client Dealer Services Freephone: 0800 305 306 Telephone: 44 0 20 7073 8690 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7073 8701 E-mail: enquiries@franklintempleton.
co. uk Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Registered Office: The Adelphi, 1-11 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6HT Authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority TEMIT AR RGB 04 07  Directors: SirRonaldHampel Chairman SirPeterBurt NeilACollins PeterCGodsoe, O. C. CharlesBJohnson AndrewSBKnight PeterASmith 14August2007 DearShareholder,  theCompany .
The first six months of the year 2006 7 saw an underperformance in the Companys investments against benchmarks but a recovery in the second half.
Full details and analysis appear in the Annual Report.
Improvement has continued in 2007 and in the 12 months to 31 July 2007 there was significant outperformance: the NAV rose by 44.26%, compared to 38.68% for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and40.25%fortheS&P IFCICompositeIndex.
As you know, the resolution seeking support for a capital reorganisation of the Company involving the %, butnotthe75% necessary for adoption.
Of the numbers of shareholders who voted, some 80% were in favour and 20% against, .
Following the EGM, the Board announced that it intends to bring no further proposals for restructuring .
You will recall that in late November 2006 City of London Investment Management published a letter to me suggesting the Board introduce active discount control measures.
The letter also made a number of .
The Directors decided to mount a full consultation exercise and sought to obtain the views of as many shareholders as possible.
I personally spoke to 27 institutions, accompanied on each occasion by another :%oftheshareholding.
Inaddition, UBS, our brokers, consulted with a further 15 shareholders and recorded their views.
The Board held an open meeting to which it invited shareholders to come and express their views and around 100 attended thatmeeting.
It will not surprise you to know that a wide variety of views were expressed but there was consensus on a numberofissues: 1.
A majority of shareholders felt that the Board should introduce a buy-back policy to help to control the discount.
Paradoxically many of the same shareholders liked the volatility in the discount which allowed them to sell when narrow and buy when wide.
 is notanissue  and his team on an outstanding record over the years, accepting that the first six months underperformance in 2006 was a normal market risk.
The last 12 months significant out .
The Board then discussed with its advisers what steps if any should be taken.
Clearly it had to recognise ,  .
 and must try to balance the differing and often contradictory demands.
The capital reorganisation proposal had as its main aim the maintenance of the Companys primary objective providing capital   .
Shareholders confirmed in our discussions that the discount is not as relevant as investment performance .
 a number of shareholders for a tender offer and particularly promoted by the short-term activists was unlikely to be maintained in normal trading and thus, if such a policy was adopted, it would open the Company to repeat attacks of this nature as the discount returned to previous trading levels.
This would lead to a loss of liquidity and to a possible eventual disappearance of the Company.
The Board is also ,  inthemarket.
As youknow, the Boardhad beenreluctant to introduce a buy-backpolicy because it felt that the market was the vehicle through which the share price should be determined.
During its discussions with shareholders,  the possibility of short-term financial gain if they could persuade the Board to make a tender offer: and a  NAV accretion to ongoing holders.
Against that background the Board changed its policy in relation to % ofaround10%, .
 and has been costly for the Company.
Costs of under 600,000 have been incurred, compared with the : .
The Board has become particularly conscious during this period of intense consultation that it is increasingly difficult to communicate with all but the bigger shareholders because of the increasing use of .
 improving this by, for example, offering an optional email service.
As a first step this letter will both be  www.
There will be an opportunity for shareholders to question the Board at the AGM on 27 September 2007 .
