72 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The Carphone may, at any time before such expiry, make offers, agreements or Warehouse Group PLC Company will be held at the Ramada Ealing, other arrangements which would or might require equity securities Ealing Common, London, W5 3HN on 26 July 2007 at 11am to consider to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity the following business: securities pursuant to any such offer, agreement or other arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To receive the accounts and reports of the Directors and Auditors for 12.
That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally and generally the period ended 31 March 2007. authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Act to make market purchases as dened in section 163 of the Act of Ordinary Shares 2.
That the Remuneration Report set out in the Annual Report 2007 provided that: be approved.
12.1 The maximum aggregate number of shares hereby authorised to 3.
That a final dividend of 2.25 pence per ordinary share for the period ended be purchased is 89,628,492: 31 March 2007 be declared.
12.2 The minimum price which may be paid is the 0.1p nominal value 4.
That Adrian Martin be re-elected as a Director.
That Sir Brian Pitman be re-elected as a Director.
12.3 The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for 6.
That David Grigson be elected as a Director.
such shares is an amount no more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys Ordinary Shares 7.
That Deloitte & Touche LLP be re-appointed as auditors of the Company derived from the daily ofcial list of the London Stock Exchange and to authorise the Board to determine the auditors remuneration.
PLC for the five business days immediately before the day on which Special Resolutions the purchase is made: 8.
That articles 94.2 to 94.6 inclusive of the Companys Articles of Association 12.4 This authority shall expire on the date falling 15 months after the which relates to the Directors borrowing powers be deleted.
passing of this resolution or, if sooner, at the conclusion of the 9.
That the adoption and inclusion of a new article 152 in the Companys Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008: and Articles of Association as set out in the draft amended Articles of Association 12.5 The Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman be approved.
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the 10.
That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised for the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or purpose of section 80 1 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
meaning of section 80 2 of the Act, such authority being limited to the By order of the Board allotment and issue of relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 298,762 being the aggregate nominal amount of one third of T. S. Morris the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2007 and shall Company Secretary expire on the date falling 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, 4 June 2007 if sooner, at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 and provided that the Directors may, at any time before such Registered Ofce authority expires, make offers, agreements or other arrangements which 1 Portal Way would or might require such securities to be allotted after such expiry London and the Directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer, W3 6RS agreement or other arrangement as if such authority had not expired.
That the Directors be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as dened in section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, such power being limited to: 11.1 The allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares of 0.1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all such holders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them, but including, in connection with such an issue, the making of such arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange: and 11.2 The allotment other than pursuant to the powers conferred pursuant to resolution 11.1 of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 44,814 being five per cent of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2007 and shall expire on the date falling 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 save that the Directors 7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 Financial Statements 73 Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions to take no action and view any documents or information via the Companys Remuneration Report website.
Shareholders should note that if they do not respond to the election Resolution 2 form, they will be taken to have agreed that the Company may send or s The Company is required under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Regulations to produce a remuneration report for upply documents or information by means of its website.
However, where shareholders which must comply with the Regulations, be approved by the shareholders are provided with documents by means of the Companys Board and led with the Registrar of Companies.
The Report must also be website, they will be notied by the Company whenever a relevant document approved by the shareholders.
has been made available on that website.
A copy of the existing Articles of Association, and a copy marked to show Dividend 3 the differences between the existing Articles of Association and the Articles Resolution of Association as proposed to be amended pursuant to resolutions 8 and 9, Final dividends must be approved by shareholders but must not exceed the will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to amount recommended by Directors.
If the meeting approves the final dividend Friday each week public holidays excepted at the Companys Registered it will be paid out in accordance with the Financial Calendar set out on page 75 Ofce at 1 Portal Way, London, W3 6RS from the date of this document up of the Annual Report.
to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of Directors the Annual General Meeting from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
4 5 Resolutions, and 6 Allotment of shares Adrian Martin and Sir Brian Pitman are required to retire by rotation and to Resolutions 10 and 11 stand for re-election every three years pursuant to the Companys Articles of These resolutions renew the Directors authority to issue relevant securities up to Association adopted on 13th July 2000.
David Grigson was appointed as a an aggregate nominal amount of 298,762 being a sum equal to one third of the Director with effect from 24 April 2007.
The Articles require that all Directors issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 March 2007.
The Directors appointed by the Board are elected by the Companys shareholders at the will also be able to make issues for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
The Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
No Director may vote in proposed limit of 44,814 represents 5% of the nominal amount of the issued respect of his own appointment.
Biographical details of those Directors seeking ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2007.
The Company had 896,284,916 election and re-election are given on page 21 of the Annual Report and will be ordinary shares of 0.1p each in issue at 31 March 2007 and the Companys available at the meeting.
authorised share capital is 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.1p each.
Auditors The above limits are in line with the guidelines issued by the Investment 7 Resolution Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which of Pension Funds.
accounts are presented, to hold ofce until the end of the next such meeting.
This resolution is recommended by the Audit Committee and proposes the Repurchase of shares re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP, Resolution 12 and follows good practice in giving authority to the Audit Committee to This grants the Company authority to purchase its own shares up to a maximum determine their remuneration.
amount of 89,628,492 until the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
The Companies Act 1985 permits a company to purchase its own shares provided that the Directors Borrowing Power purchase has been authorised by the Company in a general meeting.
It is Resolution 8 common practice for listed companies to seek such authority and the Directors These borrowing limits were inserted in the Companys Articles of Association consider that it is prudent to seek such authority at the Annual General Meeting.
at the time of the Companys otation on the London Stock Exchange in July 2000.
The Board believes that these restrictions are no longer required The amount represents 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 31 March 2007. and potentially too restrictive given the Companys history, size and nature The authority is limited to the stated upper and lower prices payable for the and that it is in the Companys best interests for them to be deleted.
shares which reects the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
As at 4 June 2007 there were 84,010,722 outstanding options granted and Electronic Communication unexercised under all share option schemes operated by the Company which, 9 Resolution if exercised, would represent 9.4% of the existing issued ordinary share capital Resolution 9 proposes to amend the Companys Articles of Association to of the Company.
If this authority to repurchase was exercised in full, such enable the Company to benefit from broader powers under the Companies Act options would represent approximately 10.4% of the issued share capital at 2006 the 2006 Act in relation to the sending or supplying of documents or such date.
The Directors would only propose to make share purchases where information by or to the Company in electronic form including, without the expected effect would be to increase earnings per share and having limitation, via a website.
The provisions of the 2006 Act, which were brought reviewed the overall financial position of the Company, such purchases were into force on 20 January 2007, permit the use of electronic communications considered to be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
between shareholders and the Company such that documents or information may be sent or supplied via the Companys website to shareholders who have General notes not either, requested a hard copy of the relevant document or information or 1.
Eligibility to attend provided an e-mail address to which the document or information can be sent.
The Company species that only those shareholders on the register of The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company to take advantage members as at 6pm on 24 July 2007 are entitled to attend and vote at of these provisions and the Company intends to make use of these provisions the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name in the future in order to facilitate communications between the Company and at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6pm on its shareholders and to reduce the current considerable cost associated with 24 July 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person sending paper copies of the documents to a large number of shareholders.
to attend or vote at the meeting.
The proxy card accompanying this notice includes an election form which asks A copy of the Companys existing Articles of Association, and a copy marked shareholders to decide i if they wish to continue to receive documents or to show the differences between the existing Articles of Association and the information in paper form ii to provide an e-mail address to which notications Articles of Association as proposed to be amended pursuant to resolutions that documents or information are available on the website can be sent or iii 8 and 9, will be available for inspection during normal business hours on www.
com 74 Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions continued Monday to Friday each week public holidays excepted at the Companys 5.
Proof of identity Registered Ofce at 1 Portal Way, London, W3 6RS from the date of this Shareholders and participants may also be required to provide proof of identity.
document up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and If you have been appointed as a shareholders proxy please make this fact at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 10.45am until the close known on admission to the Lloyds TSB personnel who will direct you to of the meeting.
Directions A shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to Directions to the address of the meeting are as follows: appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his her behalf.
By Road A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid, a form of proxy, 4 From M Heathrow a form of which is enclosed, and any power of attorney or the authority under Leave the M4 at junction 2, at the next roundabout take the first exit to join the which it is signed or a duly certied copy thereof must be lodged with the North Circular A406 towards Ealing.
Continue on the A406 Gunnersbury registrars of the Company, Lloyds TSB, whose details are found on page 21 Avenue.
Turn right onto the A4020 Uxbridge Road.
The hotel is located on of the Annual Report, before 11am on 24 July 2007.
Shareholders who return the left hand side.
completed proxy voting forms may still attend the meeting instead of their proxies and vote in person if they wish.
In the event of a poll in which the shareholder 4 From M 0 votes in person, his her proxy votes lodged with the Company will be excluded.
Follow A40 towards Central London At the Hanger Lane Gyratory join the A406 towards Ealing.
Continue in the A406 Hanger Lane.
Electronic voting onto the A4020 Uxbridge Road.
The hotel is located on the left hand side.
Instructions for registering your votes electronically are appended to the form of proxy enclosed with this notice.
4 From Central London A 0 Westbound Take the A40 towards Oxford.
At the Hanger Lane Gyratory, join the A406 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST towards Ealing.
Continue on the A406 Hanger Lane.
Turn left onto the electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures A4020 Uxbridge Road.
described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting Car Parking service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Chargeable guest parking.
provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
By Train Underground In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service Ealing Common is on the Piccadilly and District Lines and is the nearest tube to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must station.
Ealing Broadway is on the Central and District Lines and is also served be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and by trains from London Paddington, Reading and Maidenhead.
must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in 7.
Information available for inspection the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the The following information is available for inspection at the registered ofce of appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously the Company weekends and public holidays excluded.
It will also be available appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 10am on the by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting: appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company: the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is Copies of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment: able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through Register of Directors interests: CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Biographical details of those Directors being elected and re-elected.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting 8.
Enquiries service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special If you have any questions regarding the meeting our Public Relations procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings department will be pleased to help.
Their contact number is: 0845 604 1207. and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 9 Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take.
Asking questions at the meeting or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member During the meeting the Chairman will give shareholders and eligible participants or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST the opportunity to ask questions.
sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary 10.
Special needs to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by Facilities are available for those who are in wheelchairs and anyone wishing any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, to use any of these facilities should contact a member of the hotel staff.
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the 11.
Safety CREST system and timings.
In the event of a re or other emergency an alarm will sound and an announcement will be made.
If asked to evacuate the building please follow The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the the instructions of the hotel staff.
circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Medical care If you need medical attention while attending the Annual General Meeting 4.
Admission please contact a member of the hotel staff who will obtain medical assistance.
If you propose to attend the meeting, please detach and bring with you the 3 attendance slip attached to the form of proxy.
You will be asked to show this 1.
Smoking at the entrance and not having it available could delay your admission.
Smoking will not be permitted in the auditorium.
7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 Financial Statements 75 Financial Calendar Key dates Results announcement 5 June 2007 Ex-dividend date 4 July 2007 Record date 6 July 2007 Dividend payment date 3 August 2007 Interim results announcement 8 November 2007 Published by Black Sun Plc Printed in England by SVTWO www.
com The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC 1 Portal Way London W3 6RS Tel 44 0 20 8896 5000 Fax 44 0 20 8753 8009 Email investorrelations@cpw.
