66 Statement of Directors Responsibilities on the Company Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with statements.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the accounts for the Company the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for taking such steps in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report of affairs of the Company and of its profit or loss for that period.
In preparing confirms that: those financial statements, the Directors are required to: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is that information.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Independent Auditors Report on the Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Carphone specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Warehouse Group PLC We have audited the individual Company financial statements of The We read the other information contained in the annual report as described Carphone Warehouse Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 13.
These become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies individual Company financial statements have been prepared under the with the individual Company financial statements.
accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion The Corporate Governance statement and the Remuneration Report are We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on included in the Group annual report of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007.
We have reported separately on the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Group financial statements of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC for the and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements.
It also 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 and on the information in the Remuneration includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Report that is described as having been audited.
by the Directors in the preparation of the individual Company financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by have formed.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the individual Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Company financial statements.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the individual Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Opinion Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted In our opinion: Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the reporting framework and whether the individual Company financial statements individual Company financial statements.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Deloitte & Touche LLP Directors Report on page 31 is consistent with the individual Company Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company London has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 4 June 2007 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200
