32 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and consolidated financial statements of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC hence for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prevent and the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group.
detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required by law to prepare the Groups financial statements The Directors are responsible for including in the Annual Report a report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, International Financial on Directors remuneration which complies with the requirements of the Reporting Standards IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are required to ensure that the Groups financial statements Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the Groups present fairly for each financial period the Groups financial position, financial financial statements confirms that: performance and cash ows which requires the faithful representation of the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the of which the auditors are unaware: and denition and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the the Director has taken reasonable steps that he she ought to have taken as Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing the Groups financial statements, the Directors are required to select and apply accounting policies, present information, including This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable provisions of section 234Z of the Companies Act 1985. and understandable information, and provide additional disclosures when The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the compliance with the specic requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable financial information contained on the corporate website, www.
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of conditions on the Groups financial position, financial performance or cash ows.
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper any changes that may have occurred to the Groups financial statements accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Groups financial statements comply with applicable law.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200
