Directors and other Information Directors Secretary P L Salsbury Chairman Capita Company Secretarial Services Ltd C M Burton 7th Floor, Phoenix House J H M Newsum 18 King William Street R A Stone London EC4N 7HE P H Wolton Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC Registered Office PO Box 82 51 Berkeley Square The Pavilions London W1J 5BB Bridgwater Road Registered Number Bristol BS99 7NH Registered as an investment company in England and Telephone: 0870 707 1363 Wales No.
84492 Registered Auditor Investment Manager Ernst & Young LLP Thames River Capital LLP, authorised and regulated by 1 More London Place the Financial Services Authority London SE1 2AF 51 Berkeley Square Stockbrokers London W1J 5BB Cenkos Securities plc Telephone: 020 7360 1200 6, 7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard Facsimile: 020 7360 1300 London EC2R 7AS Fund Manager: Solicitors C M Turner MRICS Slaughter and May Deputy Manager: One Bunhill Row M A Phayre-Mudge MRICS London EC1Y 8YY Finance Manager: J L Elliott ACA Share Plan, ISAs and PEPs Assistant Fund Manager: BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited J F K Wilkinson MRICS Block C, Western House Direct Property Manager: Lynch Wood Business Park K Pabani MRICS Peterborough PE2 6BP Assistant Direct Property Manager G P Gay MRICS Investor Relations Manager: N G Williamson TR Property Investment Trust 59 Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Market Purchases The shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other financial intermediary.
Saving Scheme and ISA BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited BNP Paribas operates and administers both a share savings scheme and an ISA scheme the Schemes dedicated to the shares of the Company.
BNP Paribas made these Schemes available at the request of the Company and they have operated since 2005.
Both the share savings scheme and the ISA are subject to the Key Features document, which should be read before entering into the investment.
These Schemes are subject to commission, stamp duty and administration charges, which are detailed in the Key Features document.
Contact details are given on the facing page.
Alternatively, UK residents can invest through the Alliance Trust.
Alliance Trust provide and administer a range of selfselect investment plans, including tax-advantaged PEPs, ISAs and SIPPs Self-Invested Pension Plans and also Investment Plans and First Steps, an Investment Plan for Children.
For more information Alliance Trust can be contacted on 08000 326 323, or visit www.
co. uk Please remember that the value of your investments and any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
You may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
60 TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust plc TR Property Share Plan BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited offers a Share Plan providing a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Contents Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 Directors Review An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your 1 Highlights of the Year and Dividend bank or building society account 2 Profile 3 Financial Highlights and Performance Information All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum 4 Historical Performance for years ended 31 March Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate 5 Chairmans Statement 9 Managers Report 18 Twenty Largest Equity Investments TR Property ISA 20 Investment Properties You can invest directly in TR Property Investment Trust plc through the TR Property ISA.
The Directors Report ISA offers the following: 22 Directors and Managers Tax free income and tax free growth 24 Directors Remuneration Report 25 Report of the Directors Regular savings from 100 per month or an initial lump sum investment from 2,000, 25 Status and further lump sums of 500 25 Business Review An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your 27 Annual General Meeting bank or building society account 28 Other Statutory Information Half yearly valuations and reports 30 Corporate Governance 35 Directors Responsibilities Statement Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Accounts Under the TR Property PEP and ISA, you are permitted to transfer your existing PEP or ISA 36 Independent Auditors Report funds into the Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
37 Group Income Statement Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not 38 Group and Company Statement of Changes in Equity get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and 39 Group and Company Balance Sheets 40 Group and Company Cash Flow Statements the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
41 Notes to the Financial Statements Shareholder Information Further Information 54 Notice of Annual General Meeting Please consult our website www.
co. uk or write to: 56 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited 57 Glossary of Terms TR Property Investment Trust plc Share Plan ISA PEP 58 General Shareholder Information Block C, Western House 59 Directors and other Information Lynch Wood Business Park 60 Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Peterborough Inside back cover TR Property Share Plan and TR Property ISA PE2 6BP Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on 0845 358 1113.
BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
TR Property Investment Trust plc 2007 Annual Report & Accounts HGI5994 2006 TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007 This document is printed on Revive Silk of which 75% of the furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin fibres.
This paper is bleached using TR Property Investment a combination of Totally Chlorine Free TCF and Elemental Chlorine Trust plc is managed by Free ECF.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
