Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, Directors Resolution 10: Authority to make Market Purchases of Remuneration Report & Dividend the Companys own Shares These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 July 2006, a of the audited accounts, the approval of the directors special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the remuneration report and the declaration of the final directors authority, until the conclusion of the Annual dividend.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is General Meeting in 2007, to make market purchases of the advisory only and will not require the Company to alter any Companys own issued ordinary shares up to a maximum of arrangements detailed in the report should the resolution 51,543,115 representing approximately 14.99% of the not be passed.
issued share capital as at 23 May 2006, the date of the Notice of the AGM for cancellation.
This authority will Resolution 4: Election of Director expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 4 deals with the election of Mr H Seaborn as a director.
Under the Articles of Association, Mr Seaborn is Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed required to submit himself for election at the first AGM authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market.
Your after his appointment: he hereby offers himself for election.
Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of Resolution 5: Re-election of Director enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would, within Resolution 5 deals with the re-election of Mr R A Stone as guidelines set from time to time by the Board, make either a director.
Under the Articles of Association, Mr Stone is single purchase or a series of purchases, when market required to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting: conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
Resolution 6: Re-election of Director Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Resolution 6 is for the re-election of Mr P Salsbury, who net asset value per share, this will enhance the net asset has served on the Board for more than nine years.
In value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate intended that purchases would only be made at prices Governance, which requires directors who have served below net asset value.
Your Board considers that it will be for more than nine years to seek annual re-election, most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be Mr Salsbury will retire at the forthcoming annual general able to make such purchases as and when it considers the meeting and he has confirmed he will offer himself for timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to re-election.
set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Resolutions 7 and 8: Auditors The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into Young LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable determine their remuneration.
companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they have purchased with a view Resolution 9: Increase in aggregate fees to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling Article 96 of the Companys Articles of Association states them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, that the maximum aggregate amount of fees that may be the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the paid to the directors in any one year is 150,000, an shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so reamount which has not been increased in over 10 years.
The purchased will continue to be cancelled.
Companys policy is that fees paid to directors should reflect their responsibilities and enable candidates of high calibre The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the to be recruited.
The directors are therefore seeking price which may be paid by the Company to 5% above shareholder approval to increase the aggregate amount of the average closing middle-market quotation for an fees that may be payable to directors.
ordinary share on the 5 business days immediately 56 TR Property Investment Trust
