Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Third a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised Annual General Meeting of TR Property Investment Trust to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Companys plc will be held at the Royal Institute of Chartered ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual Surveyors, 12 Great George Street, Parliament Square, General Meeting equivalent to 49,496,980 ordinary London SW1P 3AD on Tuesday 24 July 2007 at 12 noon shares of 25p each at 7 June 2007, the date of this for the following purposes: Notice of Annual General Meeting : b the maximum price exclusive of expenses at Ordinary Business which a Share may be purchased shall not exceed 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited 5 per cent above the average of the closing middle Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007. market quotations for the Shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the five business days immediately preceding the date year ended 31 March 2007. on which the Company agrees to buy the shares 3 To declare a final dividend of 2.40p per ordinary share.
4 To elect Mr H Seaborn as a director.
c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the 5 To re-elect Mr R A Stone as a director.
nominal value per Share: and 6 To re-elect Mr P L Salsbury as a director.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 7 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Company in 2008 or, if earlier, 18 months from the passing of this resolution, save that the Company 8 To authorise the directors to determine the may before such expiry enter into a contract to remuneration of the auditors.
purchase Shares under which such purchases will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after Special Business the expiration of this authority and may make a To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
resolution as an ordinary resolution: By order of the Board 9 THAT, in accordance with Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the maximum aggregate amount of fees that may be paid to the directors of the Company pursuant to that Article 96 excluding Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited amounts payable under any other provision of the Secretary Articles of Association of the Company be and is 7 June 2007 hereby increased from 150,000 to 250,000 per annum.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: 10 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company Shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: 54 TR Property Investment Trust Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1 Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 3 A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders lodged with the Registrar of the Company not less registered in the register of members of the Company than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
at 7.00pm on 22 July 2007 shall be entitled to attend Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect a shareholder from attending and voting in person.
of the number of shares registered in their name at 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of debentures issued by Trust Union Finance of securities after that time on 22 July 2007 shall be 1991 PLC.
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
In the case of joint 5 The Register of Directors Interests kept by the holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders Company in accordance with Section 325 of the a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other the AGM.
joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be 6 By attending the Meeting, members and their proxies determined by the order in which the names stand in and representatives are understood by the Company to the register in respect of the joint holding.
have confirmed their agreement to receive any 2 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the communications including communications relating to Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to the Companys securities made at the Meeting.
attend and, on a poll, to vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The number 7 The Registered Office of the Company is 51 Berkeley of votes cast by proxy for each resolution will be Square, London W1J 5BB.
communicated to shareholders at or following the AGM and will be available on request.
