Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy The directors do not expect to use the authority to make the shares concerned.
The minimum price to be paid will purchases of ordinary shares in the Company to the be 25p per ordinary share being the nominal value.
The extent that the number of ordinary shares to be purchased Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of under the authority would exceed 14.99% of the reduced shares representing up to 15% of its issued ordinary ordinary share capital of the Company after taking share capital through the market pursuant to a general account of the proposed conversion of ordinary shares authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is into a new class of shares.
The creation of a new class of limiting its authority to make such purchases to shares is subject to the approval of shareholders at the 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting to be held date of the Annual General Meeting: this is equivalent to immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
49,496,980 ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at 12,374,245 at 7 June 2007, the date of the Notice of least 75% of those present and voting to be passed.
The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 or, if earlier, 18 months from the passing of the resolution.
Glossary of Terms Discount Ordinary shares The amount by which the market price per share of an Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the Investment Trust Company is lower than the net asset Articles of Association.
These include entitlements to any value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a income distributions paid by the Company, to all percentage of the net asset value per share.
undistributed net income if the Company is wound-up and certain voting rights.
They rank for payment of capital Dividend Yield after repayment of borrowings.
The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an Gearing Investment Trust Company exceeds the net asset value Total debt comprising debentures, loan stock, bank loans per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a and overdrafts less cash at bank and short term deposits percentage of the net asset value per share.
Net Asset Value The value of the total assets less the liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include both current and long-term liabilities.
To calculate the net asset value per ordinary share, divide the net asset value by the number of shares in issue.
