General Shareholder Information Release of Results The half year results will be announced in late November.
The full year results were announced in late May.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is held in London in July.
Dividend Payment Dates Dividends are paid on the ordinary shares as follows: Interim : early January Final : late July Dividend Payments Dividends can be paid to ordinary shareholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address is given on page 59 of this report to give their instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
Share Price Listings The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the estimated net asset values and the discounts applicable.
Share Price Information The ISIN code SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official List number of the Companys ordinary shares is GB0009064097 0906409.
Other sources include Bloomberg TRY LN and Reuters TRY.
L. Internet Details of the market price and net asset value of the shares can be found at www.
co. uk on the Companys website.
Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, via www.
Please note that to gain access to your details on the Computershare site you will need the holder reference number stated on the top left hand corner of your share certificate.
Disability Act Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
For investors through the TR Property Share Plan, ISA or PEP, a textphone telephone service is available on 01733 285714.
This service is available during normal business hours.
Nominee Share Code Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Investors in the TR Property Share Plan, ISA or PEP receive all shareholder communications.
A letter of direction is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
