Proxy Form Tullett Prebon plc the Company For use by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held at 3.00 pm on 15 May 2008.
To be held at: Tower 42, Level 37, 25 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1HQ.
If you wish to vote at the Annual General Meeting but are unable to attend in person you may appoint a proxy or proxies to act on your behalf either by completing this form or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
I We NAME IN FULL BLOCK CAPITALS of being a member of Company, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or failing him insert full name and address of proxy in BLOCK CAPITALS as my our proxy to vote for me us on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Thursday 15 May 2008 and at any adjournment thereof.
Tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments to be made.
For the appointment of more than one proxy, see note 3.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as set out in the notice convening the Meeting as indicated with an X in the appropriate space below.
For Against Vote withheld ORDINARY BUSINESS Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the report and accounts Resolution 2 To approve the report on directors remuneration Resolution 3 To re-elect David Clark as director Resolution 4 To re-elect Michael Fallon as director Resolution 5 To re-elect Richard Kilsby as director Resolution 6 To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration Resolution 7 To declare a final dividend of 8.0p per share SPECIAL BUSINESS Ordinary Resolution Resolution 8 To authorise the directors to allot relevant securities SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Resolution 9 To disapply pre-emption rights Resolution 10 To authorise the Company to buy back shares Resolution 11 To approve the Tullett Prebon Sharesave Plan Resolution 12 To approve the adoption of new Articles of Association Date Signature see notes 8 & 9 Notes Alternatively you may photocopy this form.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior 1.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other indicate in the space next to the proxy holders who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, person s of his choice as his proxy to exercise all or name the number of shares in relation to which will be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the any of his rights, to attend, speak and vote on his he is authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall behalf at the meeting.
If the proxy is being indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy be determined by the order in which the names appointed in relation to less than your full voting instruction is one of multiple instructions being stand in the register of members in respect of the entitlement, please enter in the space next to the given.
All forms must be signed and returned joint holding.
proxy holders name the number of shares in together in the same envelope.
This form, to be valid, must be returned by post, by relation to which he is authorised to act as your 4.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
courier or by hand to Capita Registrars, The Registry, proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement 5.
Where no indication is given, the proxy will vote or less than 48 hours before the time of the Annual or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a abstain at his discretion.
designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent you Only those shareholders registered in the register from attending in person and voting at the Meeting of members of the Company 48 hours prior to the 2.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the should you subsequently decide to do so.
stated commencement of the Annual General Chairman, please insert the name of your proxy in Meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the the space provided.
If no name is inserted, this proxy 7.
The Vote Withheld option is provided to enable you Annual General Meeting in respect of the number will be deemed to have been given in favour of the to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it of shares registered in their names at that time Chairman of the Meeting.
should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities in law and will not be counted in the calculation of 3.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional Regulations 2001.
Changes to entries on the the votes For and Against a resolution.
proxy form s may be obtained by contacting the register after 6.00pm on 13 May 2008 shall be Registrars helpline: Calls from the UK: 0871 664 disregarded in determining the right of any person 8.
In the case of an individual, this form must be 0300 calls cost 10p per minute.
Calls from to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
signed by the individual or on his behalf by his overseas: 44 20 8639 3399. attorney.
In the case of a corporation the form must be completed under the corporations official seal or by an officer or agent duly authorised in writing.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 79 First fold Second fold BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
RRHB-RSXJ-GKCY Capita Registrars Proxy Dept.
PO Box 25 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Third fold and tuck inside Group Overview Tullett Prebon is the worlds second largest inter-dealer broker, and acts as an intermediary in the wholesale financial markets, facilitating the trading activities of its clients, in particular commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and buy-side institutions.
The business covers five major product groups: Fixed Income Securities and their derivatives, Interest Rate Derivatives, Treasury Products, Equities and Energy.
The business brokes the products on either a name give up basis where all counterparties to a transaction settle directly with each other or a matched principal basis where Tullett Prebon is the counterparty to each leg of a transaction.
Tullett Prebon does not take any proprietary positions in financial instruments.
Traditionally liquidity pools are managed by voice brokers supported by proprietary screens which display historical data, analytics and real time prices.
In addition, our electronic broking platform gives clients access to electronic execution coupled with straight-through processing for electronic transactions.
Tullett Prebon also has an established data sales business, Tullett Prebon Information, which collects, cleanses, collates and distributes real-time information to data providers.
Contents 01 Highlights 02 At a Glance 03 Chairmans Statement 04 Business Review For more information please visit: 13 Board of Directors www.
com 14 Report of the Directors 19 Corporate Governance Report 23 Report on Directors Remuneration 28 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 29 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc Group 30 Consolidated Income Statement 31 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense This annual report is printed on Take 2 Offset, which contains 32 Consolidated Balance Sheet 100% fide-inked pulp from post-consumer recycled waste.
33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement This product is biodegradable, 100% recyclable and elemental 34 Notes to the Consolidated Financial chlorine free.
Vegetable based inks were used during production.
Statements Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production 69 Independent Auditors Report to the Members support the growth of responsible forest management and of Tullett Prebon plc Company are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process 70 Company Balance Sheet for continuous environmental improvement.
71 Notes to the Financial Statements Tullett Prebon plc 74 Shareholder Information Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr Registered in England no.
Registered office: Tower 42, Level 37, 25 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1HQ 79 Proxy Form www.
co. uk Annual Report 2007 Tullett Prebon plc Tower 42 Level 37 25 Old Broad Street London Annual Report 2007 EC2N 1HQ www.
