Notice of Annual General Meeting Tullett Prebon plc Registered in England no.
5807599 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Tullett Prebon plc the Company will be held at Tower 42, Level 37, 25 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1HQ on 15 May 2008 at 3.00pm.
The business of the meeting will be: Ordinary Business all proposed as Ordinary Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 1.
To receive the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration.
To re-elect as a director David Clark Senior Independent Non-executive Director,.
To re-elect as a director Michael Fallon Independent Non-executive,.
To re-elect as a director Richard Kilsby Independent Non-executive,.
Member Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration.
That a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 be declared payable at the rate of 8.0p per share on 22 May 2008 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 2 May 2008.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 912 as special resolutions: Ordinary Resolution 8.
That: a in accordance with article 6 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 17,747,402: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, on 1 July 2009: and c all previous unutilised authorities under S80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect.
That: a in accordance with article 7 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with article 7 a i of the Companys articles of association shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 2,662,110: c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 1 July 2009: and d all previous authorities under S95 of the Companies Act shall cease to have effect.
76 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 10.
That, in accordance with article 11 of the Companys articles of association and the Companies Act 1985, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined by S163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company determine, provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 21,296,881: b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company in connection with the purchase : c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 exclusive of expenses payable by the Company in connection with the purchase : d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 1 July 2009 unless renewed before that time: and e the Company may enter into contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which contracts will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make purchases of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contracts.
That the rules of the Tullett Prebon Sharesave Plan the TPSSP, the main features of which are summarised in the Report of the Directors on page 16, be approved and the directors of the Company, or a duly authorised committee of them, be authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the TPSSP into effect including making any amendments required to the rules in order to obtain the approval to them of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, and the directors of the Company, or a duly authorised committee of them, be authorised to establish any schedule to the TPSSP they consider necessary in relation to employees in jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom, with any modifications necessary or desirable to take account of local securities laws, exchange controls and tax legislation, provided that any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company made available under any schedule are treated as counting against the relevant limits on individual and overall participation in the TPSSP.
That with effect from 1 October 2008 the articles of association produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved and adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for and to the exclusion of the current articles of association of the Company.
By order of the Board Alistair Peel Registered office: Company Secretary until 24 March 2008 11 March 2008 Cable House 54-62 New Broad Street London EC2M 1ST from 25 March 2008 Tower 42, Level 37 25 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1HQ Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 77 Notice of Annual General Meeting Tullett Prebon plc Registered in England no 5807599 continued Notes: 1.
Every member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote instead of him at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of proxies does not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
A form of proxy is enclosed: alternatively if you hold shares in uncertificated form ie in CREST you may vote using the CREST system please see the notes below.
To be valid, an instrument appointing a proxy in hard copy form together with a power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Alternatively if you submit your proxy electronically through CREST, to be valid, the appropriate CREST message regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars ID RA10 by no later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Capita Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00pm on Tuesday, 13 May 2008 or on the date two days before any adjourned meeting as the case may be shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting as the case may be.
Accordingly, only a member registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Tuesday, 13 May 2008 or on the date two days before the meeting or any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or any adjourned meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in his name at that time.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under S146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the shareholder by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5 above do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
If you are receiving this Notice as such a Nominated Person, you are reminded that your main contact in terms of your investment remains as it was the registered shareholder, custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration of it must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian.
The Company cannot guarantee dealing with matters which are directed to it in error.
The only exception to this is where the Company, in exercising one of its powers under the Companies Act 2006, writes to you directly for a response.
As at 2 April 2008 being the last business day prior to publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 215,231,015 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 2 April 2008 are 215,231,015.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the annual general meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that a if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and b if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in a above.
The reasons for the special business are explained in the Report of the Directors.
Brief biographical notes about the directors proposed to be elected or re-elected are shown on page 13 of the annual report.
The Corporate Governance Report set out in the annual report provides additional information recommended by the Revised Combined Code.
78 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007
