Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the preparing the annual report and the directors are required to prepare financial financial statements.
The directors are statements for each financial year which required to prepare financial give a true and fair view of the state of statements for the Group in accordance affairs of the Company and of the profit with International Financial Reporting or loss of the Company for that period.
Standards IFRS and have chosen to In preparing these financial statements, prepare financial statements for the the directors are required to: Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted select suitable accounting policies Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates In the case of IFRS accounts, that are reasonable and prudent: International Accounting Standard 1 and requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the state whether applicable accounting Groups financial position, financial standards have been followed, performance and cash flows.
This subject to any material departures requires the faithful representation of disclosed and explained in the the effects of transactions, other events financial statements.
and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for The directors are responsible for assets, liabilities, income and expenses keeping proper accounting records set out in the International Accounting which disclose with reasonable Standard Boards Framework for the accuracy at any time the financial Preparation and Presentation of position of the Company, for Financial Statements.
In virtually all safeguarding the assets, for taking circumstances, a fair presentation will reasonable steps for the prevention and be achieved by compliance with all detection of fraud and other applicable International Financial irregularities and for the preparation of Reporting Standards.
Directors are also a Directors Report and Directors required to: Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the select and apply accounting policies Companies Act 1985. properly: The directors are responsible for the present information, including maintenance and integrity of the accounting policies, in a manner that Company website.
Legislation in the provides relevant, reliable, United Kingdom governing the comparable and understandable preparation and dissemination of information: and financial statements differs from provide additional disclosures when legislation in other jurisdictions.
compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
28 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007
