Notice of Annual General Meeting e the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Notice is hereby given that the one hundredth Annual General Meeting of Witan Investment Trust plc will be held at Merchant Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB on of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or Monday 28 April 2008 at 2.30 pm for the following purposes: partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Ordinary Business as a Special Resolution 1 To receive the directors report and the audited accounts for 12 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally the year ended 31 December 2007. authorised to make market purchases within the meaning 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration report of section 163 3 of the Act of 3.4 per cent Cumulative for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Preference Shares of 1 each and 2.7 per cent Cumulative 3 To re-elect Mr A Watson as a director of the Company.
Preference Shares of 1 each in the capital of the Company 4 To re-elect Mr R A Bruce as a director of the Company.
Preference Shares, provided that: 5 To re-elect Mr H M Henderson as a director of the Company.
a the maximum number of Preference Shares hereby 6 To re-elect Mr A W Jones as a director of the Company.
authorised to be purchased shall be the entire issued capital 7 To re-elect Mr R H McGrath as a director of the Company.
amount of the Preference Stock as at 6 March 2008, the date 8 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the of this Notice of Annual General Meeting, being i Company.
2,055,000 of the 3.4 per cent Cumulative Preference Shares of 1 each and ii 500,000 of the 2.7 per cent Cumulative 9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of Preference Shares of 1 each: the auditors.
Special Business b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions: be paid for a Preference Share is 1: as a Special Resolution 10 THAT the Articles of Association contained in the document c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for paid for a Preference Share is an amount equal to 105% of the purposes of identication be approved and adopted as the average middle market quotations for the relevant the new Articles of Association of the Company in Preference Share taken from the London Stock Exchange substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Daily Ofcial List for the business day immediately Articles of Association, with effect from the conclusion of preceding the day on which the Company agrees to purchase the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
the relevant Preference Share, or such other amount as may as a Special Resolution be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time: 11 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, in 2009 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed, provided that: varied or revoked prior to such time: and a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 33,208,099 e the Company may make a contract to purchase Preference Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior representing approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 6 March 2008, the date of to the expiry of such authority which will or may be this Notice of Annual General Meeting : executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Preference Shares pursuant to any such contract.
b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may By order of the Board be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% G S Rice of the average middle market quotations for an Ordinary For and on behalf of Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, List for the five business days immediately preceding the Secretary day on which the Company agrees to purchase an Ordinary 6 March 2008 Share, or such other amount as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time: Registered Ofce 4 Broadgate d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the London EC2M 2DA conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company Telephone: 020 7638 5757 in 2009 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed, Registered as an investment company in England and Wales varied or revoked prior to such time: and No.
101625 56 Notes specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the 1 Only those ordinary shareholders registered in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it register of members of the Company at close of constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an business on Saturday 26 April 2008 or, if the Meeting is amendment to the instruction given to a previously adjourned, at close of business on the day which is two appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be days prior to the adjourned Meeting shall be entitled transmitted so as to be received by the Companys to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the agent ID number 3RA50 by not later than 48 hours Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered before the time appointed for the holding of the in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the meeting i. e. by 2.30 pm on Saturday 26 April 2008. relevant register of securities after close of business on For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be 26 April 2008 will be disregarded in determining the the time as determined by the timestamp applied to rights of any person to attend or vote and the number the message by the CREST Applications Host from of votes they may cast at the Meeting or adjourned which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the Meeting.
message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed 2 An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies who Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in need not be a member of the Company to exercise all Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities or any of his or her rights to attend, speak and vote at Regulations 2001. the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by the preference shares and the debenture stock who are the ordinary shareholder.
not entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting.
If two or more valid proxy forms are delivered or 5 The Chief Executive Ofcers service agreement will be received in respect of the same share for use at the same available for inspection at the Meeting.
Meeting, the one which was last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the others in their entirety.
If 6 The attendance at the Meeting of members and their the Company is unable to determine the one which proxies and representatives is understood by the was last sent, none of them shall be valid in respect of Company to confirm their agreement to receive any that share.
communications made at the Meeting.
Every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at 7 As at 5 March 2008 being the latest business day prior a general meeting of the Company, and every person to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued not being himself or herself a member entitled to vote ordinary share capital consists of 221,535,017 ordinary who is present as proxy for a member entitled to vote, shares of 25p each.
On a poll ordinary shareholders shall have one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, have one vote for every 1 in nominal value i. e. four every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or ordinary shares are required for one vote.
The by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal Company does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
value of shares held by him or her.
Accordingly, on a Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are poll each ordinary shareholder has one vote for every 221,535,017. four shares held.
8 The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of 3 A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid the form of Association.
These incorporate amendments to the proxy must be completed and delivered to the ofce of current Articles of Association to reect the provisions of the Registrar to the Company not less than 48 hours the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which came, before the time appointed for holding the Meeting.
The or will come, into effect in 2007 and 2008.
As the 2006 form of proxy should be returned in an envelope Act will not be fully in force until October 2009, and so addressed to Computershare Investor Services PLC, The it is not yet possible to fully reect the 2006 Act Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB.
The return changes, it is anticipated that shareholders will be asked of the form of proxy duly completed will not preclude a to approve further changes to the Articles of Association member from attending and voting in person at the at the 2009 AGM.
For a more detailed explanation of these and other CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or amendments please refer to the Appendix to this proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy document on pages 58 to 60. appointment service may do so by utilising the A copy of the current Articles of Association and the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST proposed new Articles of Association that reect these Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, amendments will be available for inspection during and those CREST members who have appointed a normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST holidays excepted at the ofces of Henderson Global sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able Investors Limited, 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA up to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order until the close of the Meeting.
Copies will also be for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to available at the AGM venue, Merchant Taylors Hall, on be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST the morning of the Meeting from 11.00 am until the Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in conclusion of the Meeting.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited's EUI 57 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate for further details of this procedure.
The guidance representative with instructions to vote on a poll in includes a sample form of representation letter if the accordance with the directions of all of the other Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
corporate representatives for that shareholder at the 10 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives to persons who have been nominated by a member to will give voting directions to the Chairman and the enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights representative in accordance with those directions: and to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by a Nominated ii if more than one corporate representative for the Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman an agreement between him and the member by whom of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the designated corporate representative will be nominated, Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a from those corporate representatives who attend, who Nominated Person does not have such a right or does will vote on a poll and the other corporate not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such representatives will give voting directions to that an agreement to give instructions to the member as to designated corporate representative.
Corporate the exercise of voting rights.
APPENDIX Abolition of Extraordinary Resolutions and Extraordinary Set out below is a summary of the main differences between the General Meetings current and the proposed new Articles of Association the Throughout the Articles, references to a requirement for an Articles.
This summary has been prepared in order to assist extraordinary resolution have been replaced by a special shareholders in understanding the rationale for and substance resolution and references to extraordinary general meeting of the proposed amendments.
The principal changes in the new have been replaced by general meeting.
Both of the previous Articles proposed to be adopted at the 2008 AGM relate to terms have ceased to be applicable under the 2006 Act.
electronic communication with shareholders and shareholder Variation of rights Article 20 meetings and resolutions, directors indemnities, transfers of This Article has been amended to allow for variation of class shares and directors conicts of interest, reecting new rights in such manner if any as may be provided for by those provisions of law brought into force under the Companies Act rights.
2006 the 2006 Act which is replacing the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act in stages.
As well as those changes, the Call on shares Article 27 : Forfeiture of shares Article 34 Articles include some other modernising and claricatory These Articles have been amended to make it clear that the amendments.
It was considered preferable to adopt new Articles 14 days notice specified in these Articles must be clear days rather than merely propose amendments as this allows for the notice.
form of Resolution 10 to be more straightforward.
The number Transfer of shares Article 41 identifying each Article, unless otherwise indicated, corresponds Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer to the numbering used in the proposed new Articles.
or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to Denitions Article 1 register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of Article 1 has been amended to insert denitions for the 1985 refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in any Act, the 2006 Act and the Acts to cater for the fact that the event within two months of the date that the transfer is lodged 2006 Act is being brought into force and the 1985 Act is being with the company.
This new Article reects these requirements.
repealed in stages between January 2007 and October 2009.
Notice of General Meetings Article 56 Consequential amendments are made across the Articles to The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening reect the inclusions of these new denitions.
of general meetings, method of notice and the length of notice The following denitions are inserted to reect new terms used required to convene general meetings are in line with the under the 2006 Act: electronic address, electronic form and relevant provisions of the 2006 Act.
Quorum Article 58 Amendments have been made to the meaning of writing to Article 58 has been amended to make it clear that three persons clarify that, for the purposes of the Articles, documents and who are proxies for the same member or representatives of the information sent electronically or placed on a website by the same body corporate can constitute a quorum.
Company are deemed to be written or in writing.
General Meetings Articles 62, 63, 65, 66 and 67 Liability of members is limited Article 4 Articles 62 and 63 are inserted to allow for security Under section 3 of the 2006 Act, a statement that the liability of arrangements at general meetings of the Company.
members is limited must be included in the company constitution.
This is inserted here in expectation that it will no Articles 65 and 66 are inserted to allow the directors to make longer be in the Memorandum of Association going forward.
arrangements, in the case of any general meeting, for 58 simultaneous attendance and participation including by way of Article that dealt with this is no longer necessary and has been video link at satellite meeting places.
Article 67 is inserted to set out specic reasons why a Chairman Directors appointments, interests and conicts of interests of a general meeting can adjourn the meeting, including, for Articles 109, 110, 111, 112, 119, 120 and 121 example, where necessary for safety reasons and where there is The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely not enough room for all those wishing to attend.
codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Polls Articles 70 and 75 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect Article 70 has been amended to clarify that a poll may be interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the demanded before a show of hands, as well as immediately after Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could the result of a show of hands, and to give the directors the right apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another to demand a poll as well as the Chairman of the meeting.
Company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act Article 75 has been amended to make it clear that notice must allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and be given of a poll, rather than such notice being at the potential conicts where appropriate, if the Articles contain a discretion of the Chairman.
The 2006 Act also allows the Articles to Votes of members, proxies and corporate representatives contain other provisions for dealing with directors conicts of Articles 81 and 88 interests to avoid a breach of duty.
Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of Article 109 allows directors to be interested in transactions and hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy to be an officer of or employed by or interested in a body to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at corporate in which the Company is interested.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that amended so that it confirms that such interests, ofces or each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a employment will not infringe the conicts duty as codified in different share or shares.
The new Articles reect these new the 2006 Act.
The 2006 Act also provides for multiple corporate Article 110 1 gives the directors authority to approve conict representatives to be appointed and the Articles therefore refer situations including other directorships held by the Companys to the right to appoint multiple corporate representatives.
directors and include other provisions to allow conicts of Proxies Articles 76, 78, 84, 85 and 87 interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
Articles 76 and 78 have been amended to accommodate the There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide new 2006 Act wording for multiple proxies.
whether to authorise a conict or potential conict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered Article 84 has been inserted to enable the directors to allow an will be able to take the relevant decision and, secondly, in appointment of proxy to be sent or supplied in electronic form.
taking the decision the directors must act in a way they Article 85 has been amended to enable the Company to receive consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the appointments of proxies in electronic form.
The directors will be able to impose limits 85 has been amended to allow directors to ignore non-working or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is days when calculating the return period for proxy forms, in appropriate.
accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act.
Article 110 2 contains provisions relating to condential Article 87 has been inserted to clarify that directors may send or information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of make available proxy appointment forms to shareholders at the Board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty expense of the Company.
if a conict of interest or potential conict of interest arises.
Old Articles 83A and 96 in relation to proxy arrangements have These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise been removed.
to the potential conict has previously been authorised by the Chairman's casting vote old Article 81 directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys The Chairman will no longer have a casting vote at general procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation meetings of the Company.
of conicts are operated effectively and that the procedures Alternate directors Article 92 have been followed.
Article 92 now claries that an alternate director is not entitled Article 112 is inserted to allow the directors to provide benets to be paid fees unless the Company so determines by ordinary for any director or former director, and for any member of his resolution.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 98 Article 119 1 is amended to allow a further exception where a Article 98 follows a new, simplied approach to delegation, director shall be able to vote on a matter in which he is allowing directors to delegate to committees as they deem interested.
This is a specic exception in respect of retirement appropriate.
The restrictions on the powers of persons or benets schemes.
committees which were set out in the old Articles have been Article 120 is inserted to clarify that a director shall not be removed.
counted in the quorum in relation to a resolution on which he Directors retirement age limit old Article 103 or she is not entitled to vote.
The provisions relating to the 70 year age limit for directors in the 1985 Act were repealed in April 2007.
Accordingly, the 59 PRINCES STREET F I N S B POULTRY U GRESHAM ST. WORMWOOD STREET LIVERPOOL STREET R LONDON WALL Y LOTHBURY CORNHILL C LEADENHALL STREET Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Article 121 is inserted to allow the Company by ordinary Sending of notices, documents, information and deemed resolution to suspend the provisions of the Articles which delivery Articles 141 and 146 restrict the directors from voting.
Article 141 has been amended to enable the Company to send The old Article 125 which set out that certain interests of a or give any notice, document or information to any member in directors connected persons were interests of the director has electronic form.
Article 141 2 sets out the requirements for been deleted.
There is no requirement in the 2006 Act to when notices are made available on the Companys website.
include such a provision and the 2006 Act contains a much Article 146 amends the provisions for when notice is deemed to wider denition of connected person of a director.
The be received to include when notice is given by electronic means director and the Company must still take a view each time a or sent by air mail.
matter is being considered as to whether the interests of the In relation to joint holders of shares, Article 141 3 provides directors connected persons mean that the director should be that the first named holder on the register of members of treated as interested for the purposes of this Article.
joint holders of shares will be the person to whom notice is Proceedings of the Board of directors Article 113 delivered and deemed to be delivered.
Article 113 4 has been inserted to allow for Board meetings to Article 148 has been inserted to allow the Company to stop be held by conference telephone or other method of delivery of communications to a member if documents have communication equipment.
been returned undelivered on three occasions.
Notice of Board meetings Article 113 Article 149 has been inserted to deal with validation of Article 113 2 and 3 have been amended to make it clear that documents in electronic form by members where required by notice of a Board meeting may be given personally, by the Articles.
telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
The requirements Indemnity Article 154 for giving notice to directors who are not in the United The directors indemnity provision has been amended in line Kingdom have also been claried.
with the 2006 Act to make it clear that the Company may Minutes Article 123 indemnify a director of an associated company that is the Article 123 contains a new provision to the effect that minutes trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of must be retained for at least 10 years, reecting the relevant the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the 2006 provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention time was Act.
Additionally, Article 154 has been updated to allow the previously specified.
Company to provide indemnity cover for directors of the Company or directors of an associated company, but not the Dividends Article 134 managers, ofcers or auditors as was previously set out.
This Article amends the provisions that will apply to dividends General updating paid by the Company by an issue of ordinary shares instead of in cash, as permitted by the 2006 Act and subject to shareholder The new Articles have been prepared on the basis of the 2006 approval.
Act and current market practice.
As a result, a number of Articles have been removed from the old Articles which are Capitalisation of profits Article 135 2 deemed to be out of date and redundant.
The language used in Article 135 2 has been inserted to allow for capitalisation of the Articles has also been updated generally in line with profits where the Company has granted options pursuant to an modern standards and terminology.
Annual General Meeting Venue Liverpool St Location of Merchant Taylors Hall Moorgate Merchant Taylors Hall is located at 30 Threadneedle Street in the City of London.
It is a few minutes walk from Liverpool Street Station and from Bank Underground Station.
THROGMORTON STREET Merchant Taylors Hall Bank The Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 28 April 2008 at 2.30 pm.
60 I R C T U E THREADNEEDLE STREET S E R T S E T O L D B R O A A D L G L S BISHO P A IRONMONGER LANE OLD JEWRY MOORGATE H COLEMAN STREET BLOMFIELD STREET G THROGMORTON AVE N I S A B
