Statement of Directors Responsibilities in accordance with appropriate law and regulations The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, properly select and apply accounting policies: the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements present information, including accounting policies, in a in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the understandable information: and Group for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Groups financial statements under provide additional disclosures when compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted specic requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European by the European Union and have also elected to prepare Union are insufficient to enable users to understand the financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs impact of particular transactions, other events and as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are conditions on the entitys financial position and financial also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with performance.
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act requires the faithful representation of the effects of 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair of the corporate and financial information included on the presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
However, the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial directors are also required to: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Note to those who access this document by electronic means The annual report for the year ended 31 December 2007 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc and circulated to the Companys shareholders in hard copy format.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
However, the Board cannot accept responsibility for guaranteeing the integrity of the document in electronic format.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Ofce in London.
Readers should note that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
