Marketing Review Witans marketing programme is a cumulative process designed to enhance the James Budden worth of its shareholders investments.
The activity stimulates and sustains demand for Witan shares.
This in turn provides a level of liquidity which boosts the share price and allows shareholders to purchase and sell shares at a price Witan... accurately reecting the performance and rating of the Trust.
The presence of liquidity in investment trust shares is increasingly important in an environment where demand can drop, discounts slip and price spreads widen.
During 2007 Witans subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited, launched its Witan Wealthbuilder platform providing savings plans PEPs, ISAs, Shareplan and Jump schemes to the retail investor.
This platform allows online dealing and hosts over 30,000 investors saving some 210 million in the Witan and Witan Pacic schemes.
The revenues from Witan Wealthbuilder contributed healthily to the profitability of Witan Investment Services during 2007.
This income is a tangible measure of the worth of Witans marketing effort as each plan sold makes a profit for Witan and its shareholders.
This is unusual in an industry where normally trusts and fund management companies are obliged to subsidise savings plan investors.
Jump the savings plan for children had a particularly successful year in 2007 in two ways.
In terms of demand Jump attracted 20% more investment during 2007 wisdom than it did in 2006.
Furthermore, it also collected three top prizes at the Money If youre looking for people who can Marketing Financial Services Awards, including Campaign of the Year for its wry consistently deliver results, youll find all our managers qualify.
take on the trials of parenthood.
Witan will look to build on its savings for children franchise during 2008 by launching a Jump Child Trust Fund product to complement the current offering.
WK0407C Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited is registered in England no.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
The promotion of saving schemes in order to stimulate demand for Witan shares is but one half of Witans marketing programme.
The other relates to Witans activity, aimed at encouraging investment in the Trust from investment IFAs and discretionary wealth managers.
In this marketplace Witans marketing communications stress the benets of its multi-managed investment approach.
Witan is seeking to position itself both inside and outside of the investment trust sector, comparing itself to popular multi-managed propositions in the open ended fund area as well as in the immediate peer group.
As a multimanager Witan has distinct advantages over the ubiquitous fund of funds approach.
It provides access to a group of experienced managers who are normally inaccessible to the retail investor and it does this for less than 0.60% in total expense ratio terms.
As the average global growth unit trust has a total expense ratio of 1.63% source: IMA this is a powerful message and one worth persevering with during 2008 and beyond.
2008 Witans marketing objectives continue to be to promote awareness of the Trust and to stimulate demand for its shares.
To this end, Witan employs a mix of activity, including advertising, direct mail, public and investor relations, e-commerce and sponsorship.
This approach is tailored to three key target markets, namely the private investor, the investment IFA and the discretionary wealth manager.
Witans strategy may be summarised as follows: Advertising: eliciting response across a range of marketing consumer finance titles, national personal finance supplements and trade publications.
Direct Mail: conversion of response into investment rather than speculative mail shots: communicating of product offers to investors.
Public and Investor Relations: ongoing journalist contact programme and the provision of Trust information across the shareholder base.
62 E-Commerce: product distribution and information made The Transfer ISA allows investors to transfer all or any available on www.
com number of their existing ISA holdings to Witan Wealthbuilder.
The investments retain their tax free status Sponsorship: building brand awareness for Witan and Jump.
Witan is principal sponsor of Chemmy Alcott Britains number one female skier, in addition to enjoying sponsorship Jump the savings plan for children buys shares in Witan arrangements with British Eventing Young Rider team, the RHS Investment Trust plc.
Jump gives parents, grandparents and and Tommys the Baby Charity.
other adults the chance to save effectively for children over the long term.
Minimum lump-sum investment is set at During 2008, the Board will use key performance indicators to 100 and regular contributions can be made from as little as measure the success of Witans marketing strategy.
Whilst the 25 a month or quarter.
A Jump Child Trust Fund will be application of the marketing mix will be creative and innovative, available during 2008.
com emphasis will be placed on ensuring cost effective responses for more information and application forms.
The marketing budget is xed annually and expenditure is kept under close review.
It is anticipated that the Further information on all products is available by calling 0800 budget for 2008 will mirror that of 2007.
If you would prefer to write to request further information the address is: Its payback time.
Witan Wealthbuilder PO Box 4605, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6QY Investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax benets may The cost of training a parent is quite high, dont you find?
change if the law changes and their value will depend upon Sore throat, from bellowing for a bit of service.
Tired arms, from hurling dreary carrot sticks.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services.
Witan Aching jaw, from spitting those hideous dummies.
Investment Services Limited of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA And numb bum, from not budging without the buggy.
is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority to But now, Im delighted to say, its payback time.
provide investment products and services.
The little dears have started a savings fund, with my name on it.
So a few years down the line, they can settle their enormous We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to debt to me.
And heres where you start paying.
The Jump savings fund could be just the help youre looking for.
A small sum, put away regularly every month, could give your child just the start in life they need.
Call us now for an information pack, or visit our website.
And prepare for when the bills get really grown up.
Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
com Ref 2863 Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
How to Invest There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan Investment Trust plc.
Naturally Witans shares can be traded through any UK stockbroker.
However, Witan is also available for investment through the Witan Wealthbuilder savings platform managed by Witan Investment Services.
Witan Wealthbuilder offers a variety of different savings wrappers which carry the benets of income reinvestment, regular saving and tax efficient investment.
These saving schemes may be purchased online, by telephone or through the post.
Online dealing is xed at 15 per trade while telephone and postal business is charged at 1% per deal subject to a minimum of 1.25.
The Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme with minimum lump sum investment from 500 and or regular saving from 50 per month or quarter.
The ISA enables investors to save tax efficiently up to a limit of 7,000 per annum 7,200 from 6 April 2008.
Minimum lump sum investment is 2,000 with regular savings from 50 per month.
