Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements period.
These are IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach 1.
General information under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9, Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Centrica plc is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the Impairment.
The adoption of these interpretations has not led United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
of the registered office is given on page 41.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 b Standards, amendments and interpretations that are and in the Directors Report Business Review on pages 8 to 32. not yet effective and that have not been early adopted by the Group The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions following standards, amendments to existing standards and conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included interpretations which have not been applied in these Financial in the consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statements were in issue but not yet effective: the foreign currencies accounting policy set out in note 2.
IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs, effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment to this standard is subject 2.
Summary of significant to EU endorsement.
It requires an entity to capitalise accounting policies borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
expensing such borrowing costs will be removed.
The Group These policies have been consistently applied to all the years intends to apply IAS 23 Amended from 1 January 2008, presented, unless otherwise stated.
subject to endorsement by the EU.
Subject to being endorsed, it will require a change to the Groups existing accounting Basis of preparation The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in policy, where such costs are immediately expensed: IFRS 8, Operating Segments, effective from 1 January 2009. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore This standard replaces IAS 14, Segment Reporting and comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
requires segmental information reported to be based on that which Directors use internally for evaluating the performance The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on of operating segments.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments 1 January 2009.
The impact of adopting IFRS 8 is under and available-for-sale investments, and the assets and liabilities assessment: of the Group pension schemes that have been measured at fair IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations was issued on value.
The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that 10 January 2008 and is subject to EU endorsement.
It is are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried applicable to business combinations effected on or after at cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values 1 January 2010, with earlier application permitted.
The impact attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The principal of adopting IFRS 3 in future periods will be considered in accounting policies adopted are set out below.
the event of a future business combination: and IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with Statements was issued on 10 January 2008 and is subject to IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
The revised standard is effective for annual It requires management to exercise its judgement in the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The impact of processes of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The adopting IAS 27 in future periods is under assessment.
areas involving a higher degree of judgement, complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following consolidated Financial Statements are described in note 3. amendments to standards and interpretations in future periods, which were also in issue but not effective at the date of a Standards, amendments and interpretations authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material effective in 2007 impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: In the current year the Group has adopted IFRS 7, Financial IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements, Instruments: Disclosures, which is effective for annual reporting effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement: periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation and amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements, The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these Financial effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement: Statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and IFRS 2 Amendment, Share Based Payment Vesting management of capital.
Conditions and Cancellations, effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement: Four interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current 58 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions, Power generation and Industrial and commercial are now effective for annual periods beginning on or after reported separately.
Consequently, the basis on which operating costs are allocated to other Group segments has also changed.
1 March 2007: Prior period comparatives have not been restated as it is IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements, effective for impracticable to provide this information on an equivalent basis.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008: For the purpose of comparison, had the Group continued with IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for its previous basis of segmental reporting with inter-segment annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008: and transfers of power reported on a cost basis, and operating costs IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, allocated to segments with reference to the cost methodology, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, the Power generation and Industrial and commercial segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after together would have reported gross segment revenues of 1 January 2008.
1,027 million, inter-segment revenue of 185 million and externally reported segment revenue of 842 million and an c Changes of accounting presentation operating profit before exceptional items and certain reThe Group has adopted the following changes of accounting measurements of 130 million loss of 8 million after exceptional presentation in the year: items and certain re-measurements for the year ending Domestic energy suppliers are given energy savings targets 31 December 2007.
In addition for the year ending 31 December by the Government related to the size of their customer base.
2007, British Gas Residential would have reported an increase Costs incurred by British Gas Residential under such energy to operating profit of 61 million, British Gas Business would saving programmes are presented as part of cost of sales in have reported an increase to operating profit of 9 million, Gas the Income Statement.
Previously such costs were presented production and development would have reported an increase as operating costs.
The Directors consider the change of in operating profit of 24 million and Accord energy trading would accounting presentation better reflects the nature of the costs have reported an increase in operating profit of 1 million, all as a direct cost of supplying energy to domestic customers.
before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
The impact of the change of accounting presentation is to report 91 million of costs in the year within cost of sales.
e Income statement presentation The impact on comparatives is to reclassify 90 million from The Groups Income Statement and segmental note separately operating costs to cost of sales.
identify the effects of re-measurement of certain financial instruments, and items which are exceptional, in order to provide Capitalised exploration and evaluation costs associated readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups with oil and gas activities, such as licence acquisition costs, underlying performance, as described below.
exploratory drilling costs, trenching and sampling costs, are presented as intangible assets.
Previously the Group Certain re-measurements presented such capitalised costs as property, plant and As part of its energy procurement activities the Group enters into equipment.
The Directors consider the change of accounting a range of commodity contracts designed to achieve security of presentation better reflects the nature of such costs.
These contracts comprise both purchases and The impact of the change in accounting presentation is to sales and cover a wide range of volumes, prices and timescales.
report 41 million of exploration and evaluation costs within The majority of the underlying supply comes from high volume intangible assets as at 31 December 2007 and 29 million long-term contracts which are complemented by short-term in investing cash outflows relating to purchases of intangible arrangements.
These short-term contracts are entered into for the assets for the year ending 31 December 2007.
The impact purpose of balancing energy supplies and customer demand and on comparatives is to reclassify 24 million of capitalised to optimise the price paid by the Group.
Short-term demand can costs from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets vary significantly as a result of factors such as weather, power as at 31 December 2006 and to reclassify 23 million of generation profiles and short-term movements in market prices.
investing cash outflows from purchases of property, plant and equipment to purchases of intangible assets for the year Many of the energy procurement contracts are held for the ending 31 December 2006. purpose of receipt or delivery of commodities in accordance with the Groups purchase, sale or usage requirements and d Change to reported segments are therefore out of scope of IAS 39, Financial Instruments: In 2007 the Group changed its reportable segments creating Recognition and Measurement.
However, a number of contracts a Power generation segment and an Industrial and commercial are considered to be derivative financial instruments and are reportable segment.
Prior to 2007 these two segments were required to be fair valued under IAS 39, primarily because their reported together as Industrial sales and wholesaling.
terms include the ability to trade elements of the contracted volumes on a net-settled basis.
The new Power generation segment comprises the Groups UK generation assets including the Spalding power station, The Group has shown the fair value adjustments arising on these associated emissions activity, as well as flexible volume power contracts separately in the certain re-measurements column.
Beginning in 2007, sales of generated This is because the intention of management is, subject to shortpower from Centrica Energy to other Group segments is term demand balancing, to use these energy supplies to meet transferred and reported at fair value.
Prior to 2007, the sale of customer demand.
Accordingly, management believe the ultimate generated power from Centrica Energy to other Group segments net charge to cost of sales will be consistent with the price of was transferred and reported at cost.
As a result of the change, energy agreed in these contracts and that the fair value 59 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued adjustments will reverse as the energy is supplied over the life associates and jointly controlled entities to bring the accounting of the contract.
This makes the fair value re-measurements very policies used into line with those used by the Group.
different in nature from costs arising from the physical delivery of energy in the period.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
At the balance sheet date the fair value represents the difference between the prices agreed in the respective contracts and the Interests in joint ventures actual or anticipated market price of acquiring the same amount A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture which involves of energy on the open market.
The movement in the fair value the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, taken to certain re-measurements in the Income Statement which the Group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
Under represents the unwind of the contracted volume delivered or the equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities are consumed during the period, combined with the change in fair carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups value of future contracted energy as a result of movements in share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, less any forward energy prices during the year.
impairment in value in individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations These adjustments represent the significant majority of the after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
items included in certain re-measurements.
In addition to these, however, the Group has identified a number of comparable Certain of the Groups exploration and production activity is contractual arrangements where the difference between the conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have price which the Group expects to pay or receive under a a direct interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
contract and the market price is required to be fair valued The results, assets, liabilities and cash flows of these jointly by IAS 39.
These additional items relate to cross-border controlled assets are included in the consolidated Financial transportation or transmission capacity, storage capacity and Statements in proportion to the Groups interest.
contracts relating to the sale of energy by-products, on which economic value has been created which is not wholly recognised Interests in associates under the requirements of IAS 39.
For these arrangements the An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity related fair value adjustments are also included under certain interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant re-measurements.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups These arrangements are managed separately from proprietary share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in energy trading activities where trades are entered into value in individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects speculatively for the purpose of making profits in their own right.
the Groups share of the results of operations after tax of the These proprietary trades are included in the results before certain associate.
Revenue Exceptional items Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the As permitted by IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can certain items are presented separately.
The items that the Group be reliably measured.
Revenue includes amounts receivable for separately presents as exceptional are items which are of a nongoods and services provided in the normal course of business, recurring nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need to net of discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales related taxes.
be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Energy supply: Revenue is recognised on the basis of energy Groups underlying business performance.
Items which may be supplied during the period.
Revenue for energy supply activities considered exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses, includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers business restructurings, the renegotiation of significant contracts between the date of the last meter reading and the year end and asset write-downs.
Unread gas and electricity is estimated using historical consumption patterns, taking into account the industry Basis of consolidation reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial by supplier, and is included in accrued energy income Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the within trade and other receivables.
Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year, and incorporate the results of its share of jointly controlled Proprietary energy trading: Revenue comprises both realised entities and associates using the equity method of accounting.
settled and unrealised fair value changes net gains and losses from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised obtain benefits from its activities.
evenly over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary Home services and fixed-fee service contracts: Where the Group adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are 60 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 apportioned on a time basis and amounts billed in advance are LTIS: TSR awards A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
after 2005 shareholder return performance For one-off services, such as installations, revenue is recognised Sharesave Black-Scholes at the date of service provision.
Revenue from fixed-fee service ESOS Black-Scholes using an adjusted option contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of life assumption to reflect the possibility the contract, reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer, of early exercise which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency SAS, SIP, DMSS Market value on the date of grant maintenance being available throughout the contract term.
and RSS Gas production: Revenue associated with exploration and Foreign currencies production sales of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds recognised when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group Group has an interest with other producers is recognised based determines its own functional currency and items included in the on the Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that production sharing arrangements the entitlement method.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially Differences between production sold and the Groups share recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the of production are not significant.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of Power generation: Revenue is recognised on the basis of power exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are supplied during the period.
included in the Income Statement for the period with the exception of exchange differences on foreign currency Interest income: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
terms of historical cost in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are translated using the Cost of sales exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced and purchased during the period taking into account the industry For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign supplier, and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates bought in materials and services.
are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The results of foreign subsidiary Home services and fixed-fee service contracts cost of sales undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are includes direct labour and related overheads on installation translated into pounds sterling at average rates of exchange work, repairs and service contracts in the period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets and the results are Employee share schemes transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve, The Group has a number of employee share schemes, detailed a separate component of equity, and are reported in the in the Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Review on Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
In the page 32, the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45 and in note event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities 33, under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments to denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding the effect of charged or credited to the Income Statement on disposal.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to based on the Groups estimate of the number of awards that hedge foreign currency net investments in foreign subsidiary will vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are vesting conditions.
taken directly to reserves and are reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
All other exchange Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the movements are recognised in the Income Statement for different schemes as follows: the period.
LTIS: awards up to A Black-Scholes valuation augmented Business combinations and goodwill 2005 by a Monte Carlo simulation to predict The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the the total shareholder return performance purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as LTIS: EPS awards Market value on the date of grant the cash paid and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of after 2005 exchange, of other assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, 61 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for all the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the are complete.
Amortisation commences at the point of business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities commercial deployment.
The cost of intangible assets acquired and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of under IFRS 3, Business Combinations are recognised at their acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life at fair value less costs to sell.
and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the and the amortisation method for an intangible asset are reviewed excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the at least at each financial year-end.
Changes in the expected fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future jointly controlled entity or associate at the date of acquisition.
economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for on a Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is prospective basis by changing the amortisation period or method, subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the economic benefits are expected from their use.
excess is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life assessment continues to Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment impairment, annually, or more frequently if events or changes from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the The amortisation period for the principal categories of intangible Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
assets are as follows: For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Application software up to 10 years each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cashLicences up to 20 years generating units that expect to benefit from the business Consents up to 25 years combination in which the goodwill arose.
Cash-generating units Contractual customer relationships up to 20 years to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment Identifiable acquired brand Indefinite annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashEU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable generating unit or groups of cash-generating units is less than obligations certificates the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated Granted CO emissions allowances received in a period are 2 first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to initially recognised at nominal value nil value.
Purchased CO2 the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the emissions allowances are initially recognised at cost purchase basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
A liability is recognised when the level of emissions exceed the level of allowances granted.
The On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the level of purchased allowances held, and then at the market price determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward contracts for Other intangible assets the purchase or sale of CO2 emissions allowances are measured Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair recognition at cost.
Intangible assets include emissions trading value recognised in the Income Statement.
The intangible asset schemes, renewable obligation certificates and certain exploration is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the and evaluation expenditures, the accounting policies for which are consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation dealt with separately below.
For purchased application software, is recorded during the period.
for example investments in customer relationship management and billing systems, cost includes contractors charges, materials, Purchased renewable obligation certificates are initially directly attributable labour and directly attributable overheads.
recognised at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for the renewables obligation is recognised based on the level of Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset with percentages set by the UK Government and the renewable for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially 62 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 obligation certificate buyout price for that period.
The intangible related to production activities, are depreciated from the asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period commencement of production in the fields concerned, using reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result the unit of production method, based on all of the proven and no amortisation is recorded during the period.
probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is included in the Balance Sheet The net carrying value of fields in production and development at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions is compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted for impairment.
future net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial reserves.
An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing net present value of future net revenues.
Exploration and production the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Decommissioning costs Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the equipment, except upstream production assets, are depreciated producing lives of fields, and storage facilities and power stations on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less at the end of the useful life of the facilities, based on price levels estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated and technology at the balance sheet date.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is recognised and included within property, plant and equipment.
Changes in these estimates and Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and Plant 5 to 20 years reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding Power stations and wind farms up to 30 years decommissioning asset included within property, plant and Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years equipment.
For gas production facilities and offshore storage Storage up to 28 years facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their For power stations the decommissioning asset is amortised on a expected useful economic lives on the same basis as for owned straight-line basis over the useful life of the facility.
The unwinding assets, or where shorter, the lease term.
of the discount on the provision is included in the Income Statement within interest expense.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate Leases that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leases are Exploration, evaluation and production assets classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Centrica uses the successful efforts method of accounting transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to for exploration and evaluation expenditure.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
evaluation expenditure associated with an exploration well, Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included including acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation in property, plant and equipment at their fair value, or if lower, activities, are initially capitalised as intangible assets.
Certain at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each expenditures such as geological and geophysical exploration determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating costs are expensed.
If the prospects are subsequently to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future determined to be successful on completion of evaluation, periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, the relevant expenditure including licence acquisition costs is with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
Lease payments on a unit of production basis.
If the prospects are subsequently are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the determined to be unsuccessful on completion of evaluation, finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of the associated costs are expensed in the period in which that interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges determination is made.
are charged directly against income.
All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and Payments under operating leases are charged to the Income equipment.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the of production facilities and include development drilling costs, relevant lease.
project-related engineering and other technical services costs.
Property, plant and equipment, including rights and concessions 63 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Take-or-pay contracts intangible assets excluding goodwill Where payments are made to external suppliers under take-or-pay obligations for gas not taken, they are treated as At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets and property, plant and prepayments and included within other receivables, as they generate future economic benefits.
equipment to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order Pensions and other post-retirement benefits to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension does not generate cash flows that are independent from other schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashschemes is determined separately for each scheme using the generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
They are recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax charged to the Income Statement over the periods benefiting discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time from employees service.
Past service cost is recognised value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit period until the benefits become vested.
The difference between is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying the expected return on scheme assets and the change in present amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time is recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised recognised in the Income Statement within interest income or immediately as an expense.
An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in The retirement benefit obligation asset recognised in the Balance the estimate used to determine the assets recoverable amount Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit since the last impairment loss was recognised.
Where an obligation of the schemes as adjusted for unrecognised past impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount service cost, and the fair value of the schemes assets.
of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased Provisions carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, that for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of can be reliably measured, and it is probable that the Group will an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
After be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at such a reversal the depreciation or amortisation charge, where the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle relevant, is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic present value where the effect is material.
Where discounting basis over its remaining useful life.
is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Income Statement included within Non-current assets held for sale interest expense.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Taxation less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of nonCurrent tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue current assets classified as held for sale.
tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill its present condition.
Management must be committed to the if amortisation of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes or sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss.
Inventories Temporary differences are differences between the carrying Inventories, excluding inventories of gas and oil, are valued on amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
a first-in, first-out basis, at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value after allowance for redundant and slow-moving Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets items.
Inventories of gas and oil are valued on a weighted average within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any basis, at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the 64 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that item in an effective fair value hedge relationship where the there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, carrying value is also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements in the foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary associated with the hedged risks.
Such fair value movements difference can be utilised.
are recognised in the Income Statement.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on discount or premium.
subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can e Units issued by The Consumers Waterheater be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will Income Fund not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Prior to deconsolidation as explained in note 3, units issued by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund which contain Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are redemption rights providing unit holders with the right to redeem expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised units back to the Fund for cash or another financial asset are or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been treated as a financial liability and recorded at the present value enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses related to changes Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the in the carrying value of the financial liability up to the date of tax consequences expected to fall from the manner in which deconsolidation are included in the Income Statement within the asset or liability is recovered or settled.
Financial instruments f Other financial assets Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale, which contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are are initially recognised at fair value, and included within other fide-recognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash financial assets within the Balance Sheet.
Available-for-sale flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of the asset.
financial assets are subsequently recognised at fair value with Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation under gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
directly in equity and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, until the asset is disposed of or is a Trade receivables determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Accrued interest or dividends arising Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the Group may not be able to collect the trade receivable.
are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity b Share capital investments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly reversed through the Income Statement.
Impairment losses attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a recognised in the Income Statement for debt instruments deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on related to an event occurring after the recognition of the the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own impairment loss.
g Derivative financial instruments c Cash and cash equivalents The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current for physical delivery of gas, power and oil.
A portion of these balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity physical commodity in accordance with the Groups expected of three months or less.
sale, purchase or usage requirements, and are not within the scope of IAS 39.
For the purpose of the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
of gas, power and oil are within the scope of IAS 39 because they net settle or contain written options.
Such contracts are d Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings accounted for as derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses arising recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs.
from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the Income Statement After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other for the year.
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except when they are the hedged 65 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to of the contract which significantly modifies the future cash flows hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign under the contract.
Where a contract contains one or more exchange and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of embedded derivatives and providing that the embedded business.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
the option to fair value the entire contract may be taken and the Further detail on the Groups risk management policies is contract will be recognised at fair value with changes in fair included within the Directors Report Governance on pages 39 value recognised in the Income Statement.
to 40 and in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
h Hedge accounting The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on whether For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
A derivative either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when investments in foreign operations.
it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies and is in Fair value hedges: A derivative is classified as a fair value hedge accordance with established guidelines, which require that the when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of a hedging relationship is documented at its inception, ensure that recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from re-measuring the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective, and the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately require that its effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The Group in the Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item also holds derivatives which are not designated as hedges and attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying are held for trading.
amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting at each reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when or the Group revokes the designation.
Any adjustment to the the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the negative.
Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are offset effective interest method is used is amortised to the Income and presented on a net basis only when both a legal right Statement.
Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment of set-off exists and the intention to net settle the derivative exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases contracts is present.
to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering periods for which observable market data does not Cash flow hedges: A derivative is classified as a cash flow exist.
The fair value of such derivatives is estimated by reference hedge when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is in part to published price quotations from active markets, to the attributable to a particular risk either associated with a recognised extent that such observable market data exists, and in part by asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The using valuation techniques, whose inputs include data, which portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is is not based on or derived from observable markets.
Where the effective is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the is recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that transaction price, a fair value gain or fair value loss will arise.
are recognised directly in equity are transferred to the Income This is referred to as a day-one gain or day-one loss.
Such gains Statement in the same period in which the highly probable and losses are deferred and amortised to the Income Statement forecast transaction affects income, for example when the future based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual sale of physical gas or physical power actually occurs.
Where the period until such time observable market data becomes available.
hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the When observable market data becomes available, any remaining amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying deferred day-one gains or losses are recognised within the amount of the non-financial asset or liability on its recognition.
Recognition of the gain or loss that results Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument from changes in fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement holding the derivative.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value revokes the designation.
are taken directly to the Income Statement and are included within gross profit or interest income and interest expense.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging Gains and losses arising on derivatives entered into for instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the highly speculative energy trading purposes are presented on a net probable forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no basis within revenue.
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Income Statement.
Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate Net investment hedges: Hedges of net investments in foreign derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is Income Statement.
The closely related nature of embedded recognised in the Income Statement.
On disposal of the foreign derivatives is re-assessed when there is a change in the terms 66 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised desire and the ability to manage its own affairs.
Accordingly, in directly in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
2007 the Directors judge that the Funds activities are no longer predetermined such that its activities are being conducted on behalf of Centrica, and thus the Fund ceases to represent 3.
Critical accounting judgements a subsidiary of the Centrica Group.
and key sources of estimation The Group has deconsolidated the Fund with effect from uncertainty 1 December 2007, the date the Internalisation Agreement became effective and the date of the resultant loss of control, a Critical judgements in applying the Groups recognising an exceptional profit on disposal amounting to 227 million.
The Funds activities represented a separate major accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies line of business of the Direct Energy segment, and contributed materially to Group borrowings.
In order to provide a clear as described in note 2, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts presentation of the impact of deconsolidating the Fund, the results in the current year and prior year have been presented as recognised in the Financial Statements apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with below.
a discontinued operation distinct from continuing operations within the Group Income Statement.
The details of the disposal The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund and discontinued results are provided in note 35.
The Group has deconsolidated The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund with effect from 1 December 2007, Finance lease Third-party power station the date of an Internalisation Agreement entered into between tolling arrangement Centrica and the Fund.
The Group has entered into a long-term tolling arrangement with the Spalding power station.
The contract provides Centrica with Centrica created the Fund in 2002 to refinance the water heater the right to nominate 100% of the plant output until 2021 in return assets acquired with the Enbridge Services acquisition.
for a mix of capacity payments and operating payments.
The The Group consolidated the Fund in accordance with the capacity payments comprise both fixed-price and market-priced requirements of SIC-12, Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, elements and are dependent on plant availability.
Centrica holds as the substance of the agreements put in place by Centrica an option to extend the tolling arrangement for a further 8 years, indicated that the Fund was created for and on behalf of the notice of which must be provided to the power station operator Group.
These agreements both predetermined the Funds by 30 September 2020.
If the extension option is exercised, activities and provided Centrica with operational control, via Centrica is granted an option to purchase the station at the responsibilities for servicing the Funds asset portfolio and end of the extended tolling period.
The option to purchase administering the Funds activities.
must be exercised by serving notice to the generator between 30 September 2027 and 30 September 2028.
Should Centrica In October 2006 the Trustees of the Fund appointed an exercise the purchase option the generator can exercise an independent Chief Executive Officer.
The activities undertaken option to retain the station.
Should both options be exercised by the Fund started to change following this appointment through the valuation of the options, and hence ownership of the asset, the independent acquisition of an immaterial business in late will be determined by an expert panel, appointed by both parties.
2006, and the independent acquisition of the Toronto Hydro Market-based compensation will be payable to Centrica if water heater rental business in February 2007, which provided ownership is retained by the generator.
The Directors have the Fund with a limited number of rental customers held outside judged that the arrangement should be accounted for as a of the original contractual arrangements entered into with finance lease as the lease term is judged to be a major part of Centrica.
Almost all the significant parts of the relationship, the economic life of the power station and the present value however, remained predetermined or controlled by Centrica.
of the minimum lease payments at inception date of the These changes in the conduct of the Fund were judged not to arrangement amounted to a large part of the fair value of the be sufficiently material to alter the Funds status as a subsidiary power station at that time.
Details of the finance lease asset, in the 2006 Group accounts.
finance lease creditor and interest charges are included in notes 17, 25 and 10 respectively.
In 2007 the Trustees of the Fund have sought further changes in the conduct of the Fund.
The Fund has recruited an independent EU Emissions Trading Scheme Chief Financial Officer and has made further small acquisitions The Group has been subject to the European Emissions Trading outside of the original contractual arrangements entered into with Scheme EU ETS since 1 January 2005.
On 1 December 2007, the existing Administration Rights was withdrawn by the IASB in June 2005, and has not yet Agreement was replaced, at the instigation of the Fund, by a new been replaced by definitive guidance.
The Group has adopted an Internalisation Agreement, which provides the Fund with access accounting policy, which recognises CO2 emissions liabilities rights to key operational data and provides a basis for employees when the level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances and business infrastructure to transfer to the Fund, such that it granted by the Government in the period.
The liability is measured is capable of independent operation from Centrica.
Subsequent at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased to this Agreement the Fund has independently refinanced its allowances held, and then at market price of allowances ruling at activities.
The Directors believe that the Internalisation Agreement the balance sheet date.
Movements in the liability are reflected represents a change to the original contractual arrangements within operating profit.
Forward contracts for sales and purchases with the Fund, and demonstrates that the Fund has both the of allowances are measured at fair value.
67 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Petroleum revenue tax PRT Determination of fair values energy derivatives The definitions of an income tax in IAS 12, Income Taxes, have Derivative contracts are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value, led management to judge that PRT should be treated consistently with changes in fair value recorded in either the Income with other income taxes.
The charge for the year is presented Statement or equity.
Fair values of energy derivatives are within taxation on profit from continuing operations in the Income estimated by reference in part to published price quotations in Statement.
Deferred amounts are included within deferred tax active markets and in part by using valuation techniques.
More assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
detail on the assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in notes 4 and 28. b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key Gas and liquids reserves sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves is that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next producing gas and oil property, plant and equipment as well as financial year, are discussed below.
being a significant estimate affecting decommissioning estimates and impairment calculations.
The factors impacting gas and Revenue recognition unread gas and electricity meters liquids estimates, and the process for estimating reserve Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of quantities, are described on page 147. energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity is The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable estimated applying industry standards and using historical reserves is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining consumption patterns taking into account the industry book value of producing assets over the expected future reconciliation process for total gas and electricity usage by production.
If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised supplier.
Management applies judgement to the measurement of downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation the estimated energy supplied to customers and to the valuation expense or an immediate write-down impairment of the assets of that energy consumption.
An assessment is made of any book value.
factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow to the Group, including delays in Decommissioning costs processing, bill cancellation and re-bill rates and any customer or The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the industry data quality issues.
In the period subsequent to the producing lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based implementation of the new billing system, operational exceptions on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology have been running at a higher level and this has been taken at the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for the estimated account of in the judgements made.
To the extent that the cost of decommissioning at the balance sheet date.
The payment economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the dates of total expected future decommissioning costs are value of the revenue is not recognised.
The judgements applied, uncertain and dependent on the lives of the facilities, but are and the assumptions underpinning these judgements, are currently anticipated to be between 2008 and 2042. considered to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would have an impact on the amount of Impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived revenue recognised.
intangible assets The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite lived Industry reconciliation process cost of sales intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis.
This The industry reconciliation process is required as differences arise requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group units to which goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make quantity the industry system operator deems the individual an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cashsuppliers, including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in This difference in deemed supply is referred to as imbalance.
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further The reconciliation process can result in either a higher or lower detail on the assumptions used in determining value in use value of industry deemed supply than has been estimated as calculations is provided in note 16. being supplied to customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher value of deemed supply.
The Group then Pensions and other post-retirement benefits reviews the difference to ascertain whether there is evidence that The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension its estimate of amounts supplied to customers is inaccurate or schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit whether the difference arises from other causes.
The Groups schemes is determined separately for each scheme under the share of the resulting imbalance is included within commodity projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains costs charged to cost of sales.
Management estimates the level and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
of recovery of imbalance which will be achieved either through The key assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based subsequent customer billing or through the developing industry on the Groups best estimate of the variables that will determine settlement process.
the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, on which further detail is provided in note 34.
68 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 4.
Financial risk management The Groups normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management process is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk, which includes, among others, financial risk.
Further detail on the Groups overall risk management process is included within the Directors Report Governance on pages 39 to 40.
Financial risk management is overseen by the Group Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC according to objectives, targets and policies set by the Board.
Commodity price risk management, and the associated credit risk management, is carried out in accordance with individual business unit financial risk management policies, as approved by the FRMC and the Board.
Treasury risk management, including management of currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk and liquidity risk, and the associated credit risk management, is carried out by a central Group Treasury function in accordance with the Groups financing and treasury policy, as approved by the Board.
Downstream credit risk management is carried out in accordance with business unit credit policies.
a Market risk management Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market prices commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices.
The level of market risk to which the Group is exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, expectations of future price or market rate movements and the composition of the Groups physical asset and contract portfolios.
i Commodity price risk management The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement, downstream and proprietary energy trading activities.
Energy procurement and downstream activities The Groups energy procurement and downstream activities consist of downstream positions, equity gas and liquids production and power generation, strategic procurement and sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales contracts and derivative positions taken on with the intent of securing gas and power for the Groups downstream customers in the UK, Europe and North America from a variety of sources at an optimal cost.
The Group actively manages commodity price risk by optimising its asset and contract portfolios making use of volume flexibility.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement and downstream activities because the cost of procuring gas and electricity to serve its downstream customers varies with wholesale commodity prices.
The risk is primarily that market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable.
The Group uses specific volumetric limits to manage the exposure to market prices associated with the Groups energy procurement and downstream activities to an acceptable level.
Volumetric limits are supported by a Profit at Risk PaR methodology in the UK and a Value at Risk VaR methodology in North America and Europe to measure the Groups exposure to commodity price risk.
PaR measures the estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement of a commodity price for a given confidence level, over the remaining term of the position or contract portfolio.
VaR measures the estimated potential loss for a given confidence level, over a predetermined holding period.
The standard confidence level used is 95%.
The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk associated with the Groups entire energy procurement and downstream portfolio.
Only certain of the Groups energy procurement and downstream contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement and downstream contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts being carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the Groups energy procurement and downstream books to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7.
This is because energy contracts that are financial instruments under IAS 39 are accounted for on a fair value basis and changes in fair value immediately impact profit or equity.
Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39 are accounted for as executory contracts and changes in fair value do not immediately impact profit or equity, and as such, are not exposed to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7.
So while the PaR or the VaR associated with energy procurement and downstream contracts outside the scope of IAS 39 is monitored for internal risk management purposes, these measures are not required to comply with IFRS 7.
The carrying value of energy contracts used in energy procurement and downstream activities at 31 December 2007 is disclosed in note 21 and a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments associated with the Groups energy procurement and downstream activities as a result of changes in commodity prices is provided below in section v. 69 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Proprietary energy trading The Groups proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on with the intent of benefiting in the short-term from changes in market prices or differences between buying and selling prices.
The Group conducts its trading activities over the counter and through exchanges in the UK, North America and parts of the rest of Europe.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with changes in market prices for commodities.
The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk exposure associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities.
The VaR used measures the estimated potential loss for a 95% confidence level over a one-day holding period.
The holding period used is based on market liquidity and the number of days the Group would expect it to take to close off a trading position.
As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that arise from the assumptions used in the VaR analysis.
VaR assumes that the future will behave like the past and that the Groups trading positions can be unwound or hedged within the predetermined holding period.
Furthermore the use of a 95% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes in value that might occur beyond this confidence level.
The VaR, before taxation, associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2007 was 9 million 2006: 8 million.
The carrying value of energy contracts used in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2007 is disclosed in note 21. ii Currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary assets and liabilities transactional exposure and on its net investments in foreign operations translational exposure.
Transactional currency risk The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional currency of the commercial operation transacting.
The Groups primary functional currencies are pounds sterling in the UK, Canadian dollars in Canada, US dollars in the US and euros in Europe.
The risk is that the functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates.
Transactional exposure arises from the Groups energy procurement activities in the UK and in Canada, where a proportion of transactions are denominated in euros or US dollars and on certain capital commitments denominated in foreign currencies.
In addition, in order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign currency denominated debt, primarily in US dollars, euros or Japanese yen.
It is the Groups policy to hedge all material transactional exposures using forward contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2007, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or probable forecast transactions 2006: nil.
Translational currency risk The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its net investments in North America and Europe.
The risk is that the pounds sterling value of the net assets of foreign operations will decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to protect the pounds sterling book value of its net investments in foreign operations, subject to certain targets monitored by the FRMC, by holding foreign currency debt, entering into foreign currency derivatives or a mixture of both.
The Group measures and manages the currency risk associated with all transactional and translational exposures.
In contrast, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of currency risk arising on financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation transacting only.
As a result, for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes the Groups net investments in North America and Europe as well as foreign currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in the fair value or future cash flows of foreign currency denominated financial instruments as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates is provided below in section v. iii Interest rate risk management In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the fair value of fixed rate borrowings and the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage the interest rate risk on long-term recourse borrowings by ensuring that the exposure to floating interest rates remains within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interest rate derivatives.
Note 25 details the interest rates on the Groups bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings by the earlier of contractual re-pricing and maturity date and a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in interest rates is provided below in section v. 70 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 iv Equity price risk management The Group is exposed to equity price risk because certain available-for-sale financial assets, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme, are linked to equity indices note 34.
Investments in equity indices are inherently exposed to less risk than individual equity investments because they represent a naturally diverse portfolio.
Note 34 details the Groups other retirement benefit assets and liabilities.
v Sensitivity analysis A financial instrument is defined in IAS 32 as any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity effectively the contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity and a financial liability effectively the contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity or equity instrument effectively a residual interest in the assets of an entity of another.
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in market variables commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices as a result of changes in the fair value or cash flows associated with the Groups financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at 31 December 2007 assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 2007 and been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on profit or loss and equity to the next annual reporting date.
The reasonably possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis were determined based on implied volatilities where available or historical data.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 2007 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge designations in place at 31 December 2007 are all constant.
Excluded from this analysis are all non-financial assets and liabilities and energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39.
The sensitivity to foreign exchange rates relates only to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation transacting, and excludes the translation of the net assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling, but not the corresponding impact of net investment hedges.
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of commodity, debt, foreign currency and equity contracts changes.
Changes in fair values or cash flows based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The sensitivity analysis provided below excludes the impact of proprietary energy trading assets and liabilities because the VaR associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities has already been provided above in section i.
71 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Financial risk management continued The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2007 2006 Reasonably Reasonably Reasonably Reasonably possible possible possible possible increase decrease increase decrease Base price i in variable in variable Base price i in variable in variable Energy prices UK gas p therm 51 12 -12 35 6 -6 UK power MWh 52 11 -11 35 9 -9 UK coal US$ tonne 101 15 -15 70 10 -10 UK emissions tonne 24 5 -5 7 4 -4 UK oil US$ bbl 88 14 -14 66 7 -7 North American gas p therm 38 4 -4 36 6 -6 North American power MWh 28 5 -5 29 5 -5 i The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.
2007 2006 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit equity profit equity m m m m Incremental profit loss UK energy prices combined increase 34 56 91 67 UK energy prices combined decrease 34 56 91 67 North American energy prices combined increase 103 54 78 95 North American energy prices combined decrease 103 54 78 95 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in interest rates on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2007 2006 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change change Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on in variable profit equity in variable profit equity % m m % m m Interest rates and incremental profit loss UK interest rates 0.50 5 4 0.50 1 -0.50 5 4 -0.50 1 US interest rates 0.50 2 0.25 1 3 -0.50 2 -0.25 1 3 Canadian interest rates 0.50 2 0.25 -0.50 2 -0.25 72 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 4.
Financial risk management continued The impacts of reasonably possible changes in foreign currency rates relative to pounds sterling on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2007 2006 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on Foreign exchange rates and incremental in variable profit equity in variable profit equity % m m % m m profit loss US dollar 10 32 14 5 1 1 -10 28 12 -5 1 1 Canadian dollar 10 3 12 5 1 5 -10 1 10 -5 1 5 Euro 10 1 18 5 1 8 -10 1 17 -5 1 8 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in equity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2007 2006 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on in variable profit equity in variable profit equity % m m % m m Equity prices and incremental profit loss FTSE 100 5 1 5 1 -5 1 -5 1 b Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterpartys inability or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities.
Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities Counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits.
The majority of significant exposures are with A-rated counterparties or better.
The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist.
In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of bank and parent company guarantees and letters of credit.
100% of the Groups credit risk associated with its treasury, trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in related energy industries or with financial institutions.
The Group measures and manages the credit risk associated with the Groups entire treasury, trading and energy procurement portfolio.
In contrast, IFRS 7 defines credit risk as the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation and requires disclosure of information about the exposure to credit risk arising from financial instruments only.
Only certain of the Groups energy procurement contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, while the Group manages the credit risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying value of financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 note 28 that represents the maximum exposure to credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7 because credit losses associated with contracts that are not recognised on the Balance Sheet will not be recognised as such in the Income Statement.
73 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Financial risk management continued Downstream activities In the case of business customers credit risk is managed by checking a companys creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing trade and during the business relationship.
For residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally before commencing trade by reviewing an appropriate mix of internal and external information to determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level.
Certain customers will only be accepted on a prepayment basis.
In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk associated with both business and residential customers.
In other cases, credit risk is monitored and managed by grouping customers according to method of payment or profile.
Note 21 provides further detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on derivative financial instruments, note 20 provides detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on trade and other receivables, note 23 provides detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and note 28 provides the carrying value of all financial assets representing the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
c Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet it obligations as they come due.
Cash forecasts identifying the Groups liquidity requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested for different scenarios to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
In order to manage liquidity risk it is the Groups policy to maintain committed facilities of at least 1,000 million less available surplus cash resources, to raise at least 50% of its net debt excluding non-recourse debt over 200 million in the long-term debt market, to hold a maximum of 400 million of debt maturing in the same calendar year excluding finance leases and non-recourse borrowings and to maintain an average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt portfolio greater than three years.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1,300 million 2006: 1,300 million, 321% 2006: 76% of the Groups net debt over 200 million has been raised in the long-term debt market, the average term to maturity of the long-term debt portfolio was 7.1 years 2006: 7.3 years and there is no calendar year where more than 400 million of debt excluding finance leases and non-recourse borrowings will be maturing 2006: same.
Capital management The Groups objective when managing capital is to maintain an optimal capital structure and strong credit rating to minimise the cost of capital.
In addition, in a number of areas in which the Group operates, the Groups strong capital structure and good credit standing are important elements of the Groups competitive position.
At 31 December 2007, the Groups long-term credit rating was A3 for Moodys Investor Services Inc. 2006: A3 and A for Standard & Poors Rating Services 2006: A.
The Group monitors capital, using a medium-term view of 3-5 years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios generally used by industry and by the rating agencies.
This includes monitoring gearing ratios, interest cover and cash flow to debt ratios.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements but as is common for most companies the level of debt that can be raised is restricted by the Companys Articles of Association.
Net debt is limited to the greater of 5 billion and a gearing ratio of three times adjusted capital and reserves.
This restriction can be amended or removed by the shareholders of the Company passing an ordinary resolution.
As a result of the volatility introduced to the Groups reserves resulting from IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and IAS 19, Employee Benefits, changes are being sought to the definition of reserves in the Articles of Association at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Groups capital structure is managed against the various financial ratios as required to maintain strong credit ratings.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, repurchase shares, issue debt or repay debt.
74 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6.
Segmental analysis i Primary reporting format business segments The Groups business segments are distinguished on the basis of the internal management reporting system, and reflect the day-today management of the business.
The products and services included within each segment are described in the Directors Report Business Review, on pages 8 to 32.
2006 restated 2007 v, vii Less interLess intersegment segment Gross segment revenue Group Gross segment revenue Group revenue i, ii, iii, v revenue revenue i, ii, iii, v revenue m m m m m m a Revenue Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 6,457 6,457 7,112 7,112 British Gas Business 2,431 2,431 2,303 2,303 British Gas Services 1,279 1,279 1,104 1,104 i Gas production and development 923 624 299 1,291 968 323 ii, iv Power generation 880 578 302 iv Industrial and commercial 838 838 ii, iv Industrial sales and wholesaling 1,035 152 883 v Accord energy trading 24 12 12 57 18 39 Centrica Energy 2,665 1,214 1,451 2,383 1,138 1,245 iii Centrica Storage 403 63 340 358 64 294 vi, vii Direct Energy 3,992 3,992 4,050 4,050 European Energy 395 3 392 295 295 17,622 1,280 16,342 17,605 1,202 16,403 Discontinued operations: vii The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund note 35 42 42 47 47 42 42 47 47 Group revenue from continuing operations is derived from the following activities: 2006 2007 restated vii m m Sales of goods 14,621 14,840 Rendering of services 1,693 1,539 Other income 28 24 Group revenue 16,342 16,403 i Inter-segment revenue arising in Gas production and development is derived from sales of gas produced for other Group segments.
ii Beginning in 2007, sales of generated power from Power generation to other Group segments is transferred and reported at fair value.
Prior to 2007, the sale of generated power from Centrica Energy to other Group segments was transferred and reported at cost.
iii Inter-segment revenue arising within Centrica Storage represents the provision of storage facilities to other Group companies, on an arms length basis.
iv In 2007, the Group changed its reportable segments creating a Power generation reportable segment and an Industrial and commercial reportable segment.
Prior to 2007, these two segments were reported together as Industrial sales and wholesaling.
The change to reported segments is detailed in note 2.
Prior period comparatives have not been restated as it is impracticable to provide this information on an equivalent basis.
v The external revenue presented for Accord energy trading comprises both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Inter-segment revenue arising in Accord represents the recharge of brokerage fees to other Group segments.
Gross segment revenue and intersegment revenue for Accord have both been increased by 18 million in 2006 to reflect the recharge of brokerage fees as inter-segment revenue to be consistent with the presentation provided in 2007. vi Direct Energy was disclosed as North American Energy and Related Services in the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
This change was made to align with internal management reporting.
vii Restated to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation as explained in note 3.
Discontinued operations previously formed part of the Direct Energy segment.
Direct Energy gross segment revenue inclusive of gross revenue from discontinued operations amounted to 4,034 million 2006: 4,097 million.
75 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit loss Operating profit loss before exceptional items and Exceptional items Certain re-measurements after exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 8 note 8 certain re-measurements year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2007 restated iii 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 restated iii m m m m m m m m b Operating profit Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 571 95 214 39 724 610 843 British Gas Business 120 87 317 408 437 321 British Gas Services 151 102 66 151 36 Gas production and development 429 864 16 32 413 896 i 43 Power generation 46 3 i Industrial and commercial 179 95 84 Industrial sales and i wholesaling 210 440 230 3 Accord energy trading 9 32 6 6 38 157 Centrica Energy 663 686 478 506 1,164 Centrica Storage 240 228 24 8 2 232 206 ii, iii Direct Energy 187 173 53 264 240 91 European Energy 17 7 9 15 8 8 iv Other operations 14 27 13 1,949 1,392 331 235 931 2,184 130 Discontinued operations: The Consumers Waterheater iii Income Fund note 35 39 50 227 266 50 OneTel note 35 11 11 39 39 227 266 39 i In 2007, the Group changed its reportable segments creating a Power generation reportable segment and an Industrial and commercial reportable segment.
ii Direct Energy was disclosed as North American Energy and Related Services in the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
iii Restated to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation as explained in note 3.
The Direct Energy segment result inclusive of the result from discontinued operations amounted to a profit of 226 million 2006: 223 million before exceptional items and certain re-measurements and 506 million after exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2006: 41 million loss.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements of the Direct Energy segment inclusive of discontinued operations amounted to a credit of 280 million 2006: 264 million charge.
iv In 2006, operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements includes a 20 million gain arising on revisions to the assumptions made in calculating the Groups defined benefit pension liability.
The Schemes rules were amended from 1 April 2006 to allow employees to commute a larger amount of their pension to a cash lump sum on retirement, in line with changes in the Finance Act.
76 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6.
Segmental analysis continued Share of results of joint ventures and associates Depreciation of property, Amortisation and writenet of interest and taxation plant and equipment downs of intangibles year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2007 2006 2007 restated ii 2007 restated ii m m m m m m c Included within operating profit Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 16 17 27 35 British Gas Business 3 1 19 14 British Gas Services 13 13 4 ii Gas production and development 250 235 8 17 i Power generation 4 93 1 i Industrial and commercial 1 i Industrial sales and wholesaling 95 1 Accord energy trading Centrica Energy 4 344 330 9 18 Centrica Storage 24 23 ii, iii, iv Direct Energy 62 61 15 13 European Energy 1 12 2 1 10 10 v Other operations 9 17 8 3 5 12 473 463 92 93 Discontinued operations: The Consumers Waterheater ii Income Fund note 35 21 23 1 21 23 1 i In 2007, the Group changed its reportable segments creating a Power generation reportable segment and an Industrial and commercial reportable segment.
ii Restated to present exploration and evaluation expenditure, previously reported in property, plant and equipment, in other intangible assets on the Balance Sheet and to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation.
Note 2 details the change of accounting presentation and note 3 details the deconsolidation of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
iii Direct Energy was disclosed as North American Energy and Related Services in the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
iv Discontinued operations previously formed part of the Direct Energy segment.
v Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation and write-downs of intangibles in the Other operations segment are charged out to other Group segments.
77 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
In 2006, the segment assets of the Industrial sales and wholesaling segment have been restated by 58 million to reflect this change.
ii In 2007, the Groups investment in Segebel SA and the goodwill related to the acquisition of Oxxio have been allocated to European Energy for external reporting purposes to align with internal management reporting.
In 2006, the segment assets of the European Energy segment have been increased by 245 million to reflect this change.
iii Restated to reflect change in inter-segment settlement process between British Gas Residential, British Gas Business and Centrica Energy to align with the Groups external settlement process and to re-classify certain inter-segment funding balances from operating assets and liabilities to non-operating assets and liabilities to align with internal management reporting.
v Direct Energy was disclosed as North American Energy and Related Services in the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
vi Other operations comprise Group Treasury, Information Services and other shared services.
78 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6.
Segmental analysis continued vii Capital employed represents the investment required to operate each of the Groups segments.
Capital employed is used by the Group to calculate the return on capital employed for each of the Groups segments as part of the Groups managing for value concept.
Additional value is created when the return on capital employed exceeds the cost of capital.
Net segment assets of the Group can be reconciled to the Groups capital employed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Net segment assets 4,960 4,113 Less: Derivative financial instruments 429 1,180 Power generation assets under construction and gas assets under development 563 175 53 Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 29 Effect of averaging month-end balances 546 588 Capital employed 5,319 5,677 79 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Capital expenditure on property, plant and Capital expenditure on other equipment note 17 intangible assets note 15 year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2006 2006 restated 2007 restated ii 2007 ii m m m m e Capital expenditure British Gas Residential 3 2 33 British Gas Business 4 6 54 British Gas Services 16 18 3 6 Gas production and development 117 246 15 17 i Power generation 344 104 i Industrial and commercial 7 2 i Industrial sales and wholesaling 92 61 Accord energy trading Centrica Energy 468 338 121 78 Centrica Storage 19 14 1 iii Direct Energy 99 90 29 20 European Energy 12 7 10 9 Other operations 11 4 9 18 628 475 181 218 ii Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Group operates in three main geographical areas: Capital expenditure on property, plant and Capital expenditure on other Total assets equipment note 17 intangible assets note 15 Revenue based on location of assets based on location of assets based on location of assets year ended 31 December 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2006 2006 restated restated restated restated iv v ii ii 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: v UK 11,954 11,934 8,823 8,137 516 371 134 189 iv North America 3,992 4,050 2,576 2,579 99 90 29 20 v Rest of world 396 419 456 363 13 14 18 9 16,342 16,403 11,855 11,079 628 475 181 218 i In 2007, the Group changed its reportable segments creating a Power generation reportable segment and an Industrial and commercial reportable segment.
ii Restated to present exploration and evaluation expenditure, previously reported in property, plant and equipment, in other intangible assets on the Balance Sheet.
Note 2 details the change of accounting presentation.
iv Restated to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund, previously reported in North America, as a discontinued operation as detailed in note 3. v In 2007, the Groups investment in Segebel SA and the goodwill related to the acquisition of Oxxio have been allocated to the Rest of world, from the UK, for external reporting purposes to align with internal management reporting.
In 2006, the segment assets of the Rest of world have been increased by 245 million to reflect this change.
80 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7.
Costs of continuing operations 2006 2007 restated i, ii m m Analysis of costs by nature Transportation, distribution and metering costs 2,775 2,658 7,740 Commodity costs 8,547 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 415 407 415 Employee costs 366 Other costs relating to energy consumption and provision of services 872 786 Total cost of sales 12,217 12,764 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 150 149 ii 901 Employee costs 967 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 7 17 Profit on disposal of businesses 2 3 Write-down of inventory 1 184 Impairment of trade receivables note 20 179 Foreign exchange gains 3 Other operating costs 950 977 Total operating costs before exceptional items 2,190 2,250 Exceptional items note 8 331 Total operating costs 2,190 2,581 i Restated to present costs incurred under the Groups energy savings programmes in cost of sales and to reflect the deconsolidation of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
Note 2 details the change of accounting presentation and note 3 explains the deconsolidation of the Fund.
ii Employee costs have been increased by 41 million in 2006 to reflect certain employee costs previously reported in other operating costs to align with the current years presentation of such costs.
2007 2006 m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and Group consolidation 2.2 2.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The auditing of other accounts within the Group pursuant to legislation including that of i countries and territories outside the UK 1.2 1.2 i Other services pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.5 Other services relating to taxation 0.1 All other services 0.5 0.7 4.4 4.7 Fees in respect of pension schemes: Audit 0.1 0.1 i Includes fees in respect of review performed on the interim Financial Statements.
It is the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects.
Appointments are made taking into account factors including expertise, experience and cost.
In addition, the Board has approved a detailed policy defining the types of work for which the auditors can tender and the approvals required.
In the past, the auditors have been engaged on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, including tax advice and due diligence reporting on acquisitions.
81 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2007 2006 m m a Exceptional items note 2 Exceptional items recognised in continuing operations i Systems write-down 196 ii Business restructuring costs 87 iii Rough storage incident 48 Total exceptional items recognised in continuing operations 331 i, ii, iii Tax credit on exceptional items 93 Total exceptional items recognised in continuing operations after taxation 238 Discontinued operations: Profit on disposal of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund note 35 227 Total exceptional items recognised 227 238 i Systems write-down costs in 2006 comprised the write-down of certain major systems developments following a review of their existing and required future functionality.
The cost comprises write-downs in British Gas Residential 178 million and British Gas Services 18 million.
A tax credit of 59 million was recognised in respect of these costs.
ii Business restructuring costs in 2006 comprised 67 million from staff reductions at the corporate centre 3 million, British Gas Residential 16 million and British Gas Services 48 million, and 20 million related to the closure of the head office of British Gas Residential.
A tax credit of 20 million was recognised in respect of these costs.
iii Centrica Storage operations at Rough suffered a major interruption caused by a fire in February 2006.
Our investment in emergency shutdown systems and prompt management action mitigated the damage to ensure no loss of life.
Following a full assessment of the work needed to restore operations, the costs of the incident resulted in an exceptional charge before taxation of 48 million of which 24 million was recognised within Other operations.
A tax credit of 14 million was recognised in respect of the charge.
2007 2006 m m b Certain re-measurements note 2 Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts i Net gains losses arising on delivery of contracts 352 287 ii Net losses arising on market price movements and new contracts 95 623 Net losses arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation iii or capacity contracts 13 6 Net re-measurement of energy contracts included within gross profit 244 916 iv Net losses arising on re-measurement of joint ventures energy contracts 9 15 Net re-measurement included within Group operating profit 235 931 Taxation on certain re-measurements 60 270 Net re-measurement after taxation 175 661 Discontinued operations: Fair value losses gains arising on re-measurement of the publicly traded units of v The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 19 37 Total certain re-measurements 156 624 i As energy is delivered or consumed from previously contracted positions, the related fair value recognised in the opening Balance Sheet representing the difference between forward energy prices at the opening balance sheet date and the contract price of energy to be delivered is charged or credited to the Income Statement.
ii Represents fair value losses arising from the change in fair value of future contracted sales and purchase contracts as a result of changes in forward energy prices between reporting dates or date of inception and the reporting date, where later.
iii Comprises movements in fair value arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or storage capacity, on which economic value has been created which is not wholly accounted for under the provisions of IAS 39. iv Certain re-measurements included within Group operating profit also include the Groups share of the certain re-measurements relating to the energy procurement activities of joint ventures.
v Certain re-measurements included within discontinued operations comprise re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
All other re-measurements are included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
82 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9.
Directors and employees 2006 2007 restated i m m a Employee costs Wages and salaries 1,074 1,079 Social security costs 88 90 Other pension and retirement benefits costs 123 141 Deferred and Matching Share Scheme 4 Executive Share Option Scheme 2 3 Long Term Incentive Scheme 12 9 Sharesave Scheme 8 8 Share Incentive Plan 2 2 Share Award Scheme 3 1 1,316 1,333 i Employee costs have been increased by 41 million in 2006 to reflect certain employee costs previously reported in other operating costs to align with the current years presentation of such costs.
Details of Directors remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of employee share-based payments are given on pages 32, 43, 44, and 45 and in note 33.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 37.
2007 2006 Number Number b Average number of employees during the year British Gas Residential 9,227 11,061 British Gas Business 2,008 1,717 British Gas Services 15,186 14,560 Centrica Energy 1,053 956 Centrica Storage 191 193 i Direct Energy 4,839 5,059 European Energy 214 198 Other operations 1,190 1,549 33,908 35,293 UK 28,829 30,029 North America 4,839 5,059 Rest of world 240 205 33,908 35,293 i Direct Energy was disclosed as North American Energy and Related Services in the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
The average number of employees during the year provided above is based on headcount.
In 2006, the average number of employees during the year was disclosed on a full-time equivalent basis totalling 33,933.
The equivalent figure in 2007 is 32,634.
83 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Net interest 2006 2007 restated i Interest Interest Interest Interest expense income Total expense income Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Cost of servicing net debt Interest income 83 83 40 40 ii Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 92 92 155 155 Interest expense on finance leases iii including tolling agreements 87 87 47 47 179 83 96 202 40 162 Gains losses on revaluation 6 1 Fair value losses gains on hedges 5 1 3 2 Fair value losses gains on other derivatives 107 42 65 8 25 17 Net foreign exchange translation of monetary assets and liabilities 58 58 20 20 113 105 8 29 28 1 Other interest Notional interest arising on discounted items 20 55 35 15 26 11 Interest on supplier early payment arrangements 15 15 11 11 iv 19 19 Other interest 39 70 31 15 37 22 331 73 Interest expense income 258 246 105 141 i Restated to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation as explained in note 3. ii Includes nil 2006: 66 million interest payable on borrowings related to a banks interest in Centrica Gas Production LP, a limited partnership, which was formed during 2005.
The bank ceased to be a limited partner during 2006 and the arrangement with the bank was brought to an end on 11 August 2006. iii Includes 40 million of net interest expense incurred on termination of the Humber finance lease.
iv The Group has reached agreement with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC on a technical matter concerning intra-group transfer pricing of gas produced within the UK Continental Shelf dating back to 2000.
The terms of the settlement resulted in a net charge of 13 million, comprising finance costs of 19 million on corporation tax deemed to have been paid late net of an associated 6 million tax credit.
84 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11.
Taxation 2006 2007 restated i m m a Analysis of tax charge for the year The tax charge comprises: Current tax UK corporation tax 309 199 UK petroleum revenue tax 200 234 Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 8 2 20 Foreign tax 48 42 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 25 Total current tax 563 430 Deferred tax Current year 253 79 Adjustments in respect of prior years 19 10 ii 9 Change in tax rates 9 Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 8 58 343 UK petroleum revenue tax 32 7 1 Foreign deferred tax 8 Total deferred tax 250 244 Total tax on profit from continuing operations 813 186 i Restated to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation as explained in note 3. ii The effect of the decrease of 2% to the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 1 April 2008 on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2007 was a credit of 12 million.
No other material amounts arose as a result of changes introduced by the Finance Act 2007.
The effect of changes to foreign tax rates on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2007 was a charge of 3 million.
The effect of the increase of 10% to the UK supplementary charge from 1 January 2006 on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2005 was a charge of 9 million.
iii Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note 30.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which is currently 30%.
A supplementary charge of 20% is also currently applicable on the Groups UK upstream profits.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
85 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.
Taxation continued b Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows: 2007 2006 restated i m m Results for the Results for the year before year before exceptional items Exceptional items exceptional items Exceptional items and certain and certain Results for and certain and certain Results for the re-measurements re-measurements the year re-measurements re-measurements year m m m m m m Profit from continuing operations before tax 1,876 235 2,111 1,251 1,262 11 Less: share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 14 9 5 3 15 12 Group profit from continuing operations before tax 1,862 244 2,106 1,248 1,247 1 Tax on profit from continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006: 30% 559 73 632 374 374 Effects of: Income expenses not chargeable deductible for tax purposes 11 11 12 17 5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 15 15 30 15 15 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 16 16 71 71 UK petroleum revenue tax rates 118 118 159 159 Overseas tax rates 8 5 13 7 12 5 Supplementary charge applicable to upstream profits 65 3 62 98 6 104 Changes to tax rates 9 9 9 9 Group tax charge on profit from continuing operations 753 60 813 549 363 186 i Restated to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation as detailed in note 3. c Factors that may affect future tax charges The Group earns income from many activities, including oil and gas production in the UK, North America and elsewhere.
On average, the Group pays taxes at higher rates than the UK statutory rate of 30% 2006: 30%.
The impact of higher rates, including petroleum revenue tax and the supplementary charge on UK Continental Shelf profits, is subject to the mix of the Groups income.
In the medium-term, the Groups effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate.
Dividends 2007 2006 m m Prior year final dividend of 8.00 pence 2006: 7.40 pence per ordinary share 294 269 Interim dividend of 3.35 pence 2006: 3.15 pence per ordinary share 123 115 417 384 The prior year final dividend was paid on 13 June 2007 2006: 14 June.
The interim dividend was paid on 14 November 2007 2006: 15 November.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.65 pence per share totalling 355 million for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 May 2008.
These Financial Statements do not reflect this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 December 2008.
86 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 1,505 million 2006: loss of 155 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 3,673 million 2006: 3,643 million.
The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items, assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 2007 2006 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary m share m share a Continuing and discontinued operations Earnings loss basic 1,505 41.0 155 4.3 227 6.2 Net exceptional items after tax notes 2 and 8 238 6.6 Certain re-measurement gains and losses after tax notes 2 and 8 156 4.2 624 17.1 Earnings adjusted basic 1,122 30.6 707 19.4 Earnings loss diluted 1,505 40.3 155 4.3 Earnings loss adjusted diluted 1,122 30.0 707 19.0 2007 2006 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary m share m share b Continuing operations Earnings loss basic 1,296 35.3 198 5.4 Net exceptional items after tax notes 2 and 8 238 6.6 Certain re-measurement gains and losses after tax notes 2 and 8 175 4.8 661 18.0 Earnings adjusted basic 1,121 30.5 701 19.2 Earnings loss diluted 1,296 34.7 198 5.4 Earnings loss adjusted diluted 1,121 30.0 701 18.9 2007 2006 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary m share m share c Discontinued operations Earnings basic 209 5.7 43 1.1 Earnings diluted 209 5.6 43 1.1 Certain re-measurements notes 2 and 8 included within operating profit comprise re-measurements arising on our energy procurement activities and re-measurement of proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts.
Certain re-measurements included within discontinued operations comprise re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
87 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per ordinary share continued In addition to basic and adjusted earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2007 or 2006, however the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
In 2006 no adjustment was made to the denominator for diluted earnings per share to reflect potentially dilutive ordinary shares, as to do so would decrease the loss per share.
2007 2006 million million shares shares Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 3,673 3,643 Estimated vesting of Long Term Incentive Scheme shares 18 19 Dilutive effect of shares to be issued at a discount to market value under the Sharesave Schemes 26 26 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under the Executive Share Option Scheme 7 28 Estimated vesting of Deferred and Matching Share Scheme shares 7 Estimated vesting of Share Incentive Plan and Employee Share Purchase Plan shares 3 2 Estimated vesting of Share Award Scheme and Restricted Share Scheme shares 2 1 Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share 3,736 3,719 14.
Goodwill 2007 2006 m m Cost and net book value 1 January 1,055 1,170 Acquisitions note 35 58 4 Disposals note 35 124 Exchange adjustments 85 119 31 December 1,074 1,055 The net book value of goodwill at 31 December related to the following acquisitions: 2007 2006 m m Direct Energy 335 288 Energy America 23 23 Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 i Enbridge Services 79 177 CPL WTU 186 188 ATCO 46 40 Dyno-Rod 17 17 Residential Services Group 67 68 Oxxio 90 83 Newfield UK 55 Other 43 38 1,074 1,055 i The Group has deconsolidated The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund with effect from 1 December 2007.
Goodwill has been attributed to the Fund on its disposal as explained in note 35.
88 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15.
Other intangible assets Exploration Renewable and Application obligation Customer evaluation software certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure ii Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost ii 1 January 2007 39827576929 24 37 641 Additions acquired from a third party 23 97 30 5 155 Additions internally generated 26 26 Acquisitions note 35 10 12 22 Disposals of subsidiaries note 35 9 1 10 11 Disposals 11 Exploration and evaluation expenditure 17 transferred to producing assets note 17 17 Surrenders 72 72 13 13 Write-downs Exchange adjustments 11 1 2 5 3 22 31 December 2007 447 53 57 72 29 41 44 743 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2007 160 20 15 195 Charge for the year 53 10 17 80 Disposals of subsidiaries note 35 1 1 6 Disposals 6 Exchange adjustments 7 3 10 31 December 2007 214 32 32 278 Net book value 31 December 2007 233 53 57 40 29 41 12 465 89 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Other intangible assets continued Renewable Exploration Application obligation Customer and evaluation software certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure ii Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost ii 1 January 2006 535 48 57 41 29 16 5 731 Additions acquired from a third party 15 60 4 34 30 143 Additions internally generated 71 4 75 Acquisitions 27 27 Disposals 20 2 22 Exploration and evaluation expenditure transferred to producing assets note 17 2 2 Surrenders 81 81 Write-downs 196 20 216 Exchange adjustments 7 3 4 14 31 December 2006 398 27 57 69 29 24 37 641 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2006 135 10 1 146 Charge for the year 48 11 14 73 Disposals 18 18 Exchange adjustments 5 1 6 31 December 2006 160 20 15 195 Net book value 31 December 2006 238 27 57 49 29 24 22 446 i Brands represent the Dyno-Rod brand, acquired on the acquisition of the Dyno group of companies during 2004.
In accordance with IAS 38 paragraph 88, management has ascribed the brand an indefinite useful life because there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the Dyno brand is expected to generate net cash inflows.
In reaching this determination, management has reviewed potential threats from competition, the risks of technological obsolescence and the expected usage of the brand by management.
90 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 16.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite lived intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating units as follows: 2007 2006 Carrying Carrying Carrying amount of Carrying amount of amount of indefinite amount of indefinite Acquisition to which goodwill lived brand Total goodwill lived brand Total Cash-generating unit goodwill relates m m m m m m British Gas Business Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 133 133 British Gas Services Dyno-Rod Dyno-Rod 17 57 74 17 57 74 Texas residential energy CPL WTU 186 186 188 188 Canada mass markets Direct Energy ATCO 293 293 253 253 Canada Direct Energy business services Direct Energy ATCO 88 88 75 75 i Canada home services Enbridge Services others 83 83 177 177 US home services Residential Services Group 67 67 68 68 Europe Oxxio Oxxio 90 90 83 83 ii Other Various 117 117 61 61 1,074 57 1,131 1,055 57 1,112 i Carrying amount of goodwill also contains goodwill from other Canada home services acquisitions which are not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
The Group has deconsolidated The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund with effect from 1 December 2007.
Goodwill has been attributed to the Fund on its disposal as explained in note 35. ii Goodwill balances allocated across multiple cash-generating units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit is not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indications that amounts might be impaired.
The impairment test involves determining the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units, which corresponds to the fair value less costs to sell or the value in use.
Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units noted above.
These are determined using cash flow budgets, which are based on business plans for a period of three years.
These business plans have been approved by the Board and are valid when the impairment test is performed.
The plans are based on past experience as well as future expected market trends.
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period used in the value in use calculations are increased in line with historic long-term growth rates in the UK, or where applicable the US, Canada, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Discount rates applied to the cash flow forecasts in determining recoverable amounts are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Discount rates applied to North American cash-generating units range from 9.4% to 9.5%, and from 8.5% to 11.2% for UK and Europe cash-generating units on a pre-tax basis.
Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the most recent forecasts range from 1% to 2.5%.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations determining recoverable amounts for the specific cash-generating units noted above are: British Gas Business Budgeted gross margin: for existing contract customers this is based on contracted margins.
For new and renewal contract customers this is based on achieved gross margin in the period prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted in some areas to reflect market conditions.
For tariff customers this is based on current prices in the period prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for the Groups view of the forward energy curve.
Budgeted market share: based on the average market share achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity.
British Gas Services Dyno-Rod Budgeted franchise fee income: based on the average income achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity.
Budgeted cost growth: based on the cost growth in the period prior to the approval of the business plan.
91 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued Texas residential energy Budgeted gross margin: based on the average gross margin achieved prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted to reflect market conditions.
Budgeted market prices: based on a combination of the Groups view of forward gas and power prices immediately prior to the approval of the business plan and the price impact of targeted margins.
Budgeted consumption: based on past experience of the average consumption per customer prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted customer numbers: based on past experience in the three years prior to the approval of the business plan adjusted for an expected marginal decline in customer numbers.
Canada mass markets Budgeted gross margin: for existing customers this is based on contracted margins.
For new and renewal contract customers this is based on gross margin achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted market share: based on average market share achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth and decline assumptions specific to each of the competitive and regulated businesses.
Budgeted market prices: for existing customers this is based on contracted prices.
For new or renewal customers this is based on the Groups view of forward gas and power prices in Canada.
Budgeted cost growth: based on current and forecasted experience required to support customer acquisition, renewal, retention and other servicing activities.
Canada Direct Energy business services Budgeted gross margin: based on gross margins achieved through recent sales and renewal activity and potentially adjusted for future expected market conditions.
Budgeted churn: based on historic actual attrition and renewal rates prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted revenue growth: based on managements view of forward commodity cost curves as provided by the internal energy management group at the time of approval of the business plan to determine future selling prices.
Volume growth is estimated based on average achieved growth in the past, uplifted by expected future growth as a result of the planned sales activities that management believes to be reasonably attainable.
Canada home services Budgeted gross margin: based on gross margins achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted revenue growth: based on the average revenue growth achieved for the three-year period prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for additional product offerings.
US home services Budgeted gross margin: based on gross margins achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted revenue growth: based on the average revenue growth achieved over the last three years prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for growth targets based on expected market penetration in certain key US state markets.
Europe Oxxio Budgeted revenue growth: based on revenue in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for expected growth in customer base, cross-selling of products and reduction of customer churn.
Budgeted gross margin: based on the average gross margin achieved in periods prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for the expected impact arising from the unbundling of the gas and electricity markets going forward.
Budgeted operating expenditure: based on historical trends, adjusted for cost improvement programmes implemented.
The Group is of the opinion that, based on current knowledge, expected changes in the aforementioned key assumptions on which the determination of the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the recoverable amounts to be less than the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units.
92 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii, iii iii, iv iii, iv, v, vi Total m m m m m Cost vi, vii 1 January 2007 386481,732 4,860 7,278 Additions 76386 166 628 Exploration and evaluation expenditure transferred to producing assets note 15 17 17 Acquisitions note 35 10 244 254 Disposals of subsidiaries note 35 323 323 Disposals 173 52 1 226 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 12 80 92 Exchange adjustments 1 50 2 67 116 31 December 2007 39 288 2,076 5,433 7,836 Aggregate depreciation and impairment vii 1 January 2007 16222244 3,141 3,623 Charge for the year 1 75 107 311 494 102 Disposal of subsidiaries note 35 102 Disposals 90 48 138 Exchange adjustments 16 2 31 49 31 December 2007 17 121 305 3,483 3,926 Net book value 31 December 2007 22 167 1,771 1,950 3,910 Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production ii, iii i iii, iv iii, iv, v, vi Total m m m m m Cost vi, vii 1 January 2006 457791,632 4,5547,010 Additions 75107 293475 Exploration and evaluation expenditure transferred to producing assets note 15 2 2 Acquisitions 31 334 Disposals 7 144 12 28 191 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 87 87 Exchange adjustments 62 26 51 139 31 December 2006 38 648 1,732 4,860 7,278 Aggregate depreciation and impairment vii 1 January 2006 17301143 2,8953,356 Charge for the year 1 87 107 291 486 Disposals 2 135 3 26 166 Exchange adjustments 31 3 19 53 31 December 2006 16 222 244 3,141 3,623 Net book value 31 December 2006 22 426 1,488 1,719 3,655 93 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Property, plant and equipment continued i The net book value of land and buildings comprises the following: 2007 2006 m m Freeholds 14 14 Long leaseholds 1 1 Short leaseholds 7 7 22 22 ii In 2006 the net book value of the fixed assets of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund within plant, equipment and vehicles was 197 million.
Debt issued by a subsidiary of the Fund, without recourse to the Group, was secured on the assets.
The Fund was deconsolidated with effect from 1 December 2007 as explained in note 3. iii Assets in the course of construction are included within the following categories of property, plant and equipment: 2007 2006 m m Plant, equipment and vehicles 7 9 Power generation 393 88 Gas storage and production 202 73 602 170 2007 2006 Gas storage Gas storage Power and Power and generation production Total generation production Total m m m m m m iv Assets held under finance leases included in totals above Cost at 1 January 882 415 1,297 883 419 1,302 Additions 4 4 Disposals 1 4 5 viii 417 417 Transferred out of assets held under finance leases Cost at 31 December 469 415 884 882 415 1,297 Aggregate depreciation at 1 January 89 344 433 50 340 390 Charge for the year 60 8 68 39 6 45 Disposals 2 2 viii 59 59 Transferred out of assets held under finance leases Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 90 352 442 89 344 433 Net book value at 31 December 379 63 442 793 71 864 Power generation assets are subject to the following restrictions: 2007 2006 m m Net book value of assets to which title is restricted Spalding finance lease asset 379 407 viii Net book value of assets pledged as security for liabilities 386 v The net book value of decommissioning costs included within gas storage and production assets was 209 million 2006: 124 million.
vi Restated to present exploration and evaluation expenditure, previously reported in property, plant and equipment, in other intangible assets on the Balance Sheet.
vii 1 January 2006 cost and aggregate depreciation balances for plant, equipment and vehicles were increased to reflect fully depreciated assets that were found to be still in use.
There was no impact on net book value.
These assets were fully disposed of on deconsolidation of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as explained in note 3. viii Relates to the Humber Power Station that was the subject of a finance lease that was terminated during the year.
94 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 18.
Interests in joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill i loans i Total m m m m a Share of net assets cost 1 January 2007 171 26 23 220 Additions 14 38 43 Increase in shareholder loans 2 2 Share of profits for the year 5 5 Exchange adjustments 15 15 31 December 2007 192 30 63 285 i On 12 July 2007 the Group acquired a 50% stake in the equity of Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited for 42 million in cash.
Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill loans Total m m m m 1 January 2006 185 26 12 223 Increase in shareholder loans 11 11 Share of losses for the year 12 12 Exchange adjustments 2 2 31 December 2006 171 26 23 220 b Share of joint ventures assets and liabilities The Groups share of joint ventures gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2007 principally comprises its interests in Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited renewable power generation, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited renewable power generation and Segebel SA energy supply.
2007 2006 Braes of Doune Wind Barrow Farm Offshore Scotland Wind Limited Limited Segebel SA Other i Total Total m m m m m m Share of current assets 7 13 79 1 100 109 Share of non-current assets 37 65 248 350 299 44783271 450 408 24 8 Share of current liabilities 46 78 97 Share of non-current liabilities 19 29 101 1 150 114 43 37 147 1 228 211 Shareholder loans 38 23 2 63 23 Interests in joint ventures and associates 39 64 180 2 285 220 39 26 Net debt cash included in share of net assets 31 1 35 5 i Other includes the Groups interest in Coots CO pipeline construction and the Groups investment in a start-up joint venture Home Assistance UK Ltd Insurance 2 mediation.
Neither of these interests in joint ventures are significant relative to the Groups interests in joint ventures in aggregate.
95 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued 2007 2006 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Barrow Scotland Offshore Limited Wind Limited Segebel SA Total Total m m m m m c Share of joint ventures result Income 2 7 377 386 344 Expenses 2 2 375 379 363 5 2 7 19 Tax 1 1 2 7 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 4 1 5 12 The Groups share of the investments in and results of Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited and Barrow Offshore Wind Limited are included within the Power generation segment in 2007.
The Groups share of the investment in and results of Barrow Offshore Wind Limited were included within the Industrial and wholesaling segment in 2006.
The Groups share of the investment in and results of Segebel SA are included within the European Energy segment.
Inventories 2007 2006 m m Gas in storage and transportation 134 168 Other raw materials and consumables 84 77 Finished goods and goods for resale 23 25 241 270 There are no inventories which are carried at fair value less cost to sell 2006: nil.
The Group consumed 488 million of inventories 2006: 390 million during the year.
Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets: Trade receivables 1,405 22 1,491 13 Accrued energy income 1,678 1,730 Other receivables 553 11 382 3 3,636 33 3,603 16 431 Less: Provision for credit losses 319 3,205 33 3,284 16 Non-financial assets: Prepayments and other receivables 218 306 3,423 33 3,590 16 96 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows: 2007 2006 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets by class: Residential customers 1,960 23 2,232 12 Business customers 802 9 681 4 Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 874 1 690 3,636 33 3,603 16 Less: Provision for credit losses 431 319 3,205 33 3,284 16 Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that is due remains outstanding past the contractual due date.
Contractual due dates range from being due upon receipt to due in 30 days.
An ageing of the carrying value of trade and other receivables that are past due but not considered to be individually impaired by class is as follows: 2007 2006 Residential Business Residential Business customers customers customers customers m m m m Days past due Less than 30 days 276 55 281 68 30-89 days 174 41 103 28 Less than 90 days 450 96 384 96 90-182 days 91 47 72 34 183-365 days 98 37 62 21 Greater than 365 days 62 17 33 7 701 197 551 158 At 31 December 2007 there were 87 million of receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from residential customers 2006: 98 million that were considered to be individually impaired.
There were no individually impaired receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from business customers or from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties.
Receivables from residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with the Group.
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, determined by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts.
Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows: Residential Business customers customers Total m m m 2007 1 January 270 49 319 Impairment of trade receivables 132 52 184 Receivables written off 55 20 75 Exchange adjustments 3 3 31 December 350 81 431 97 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 20.
Trade and other receivables continued Residential Business customers customers Total m m m 2006 1 January 228 40 268 Impairment of trade receivables 143 36 179 Receivables written off 102 27 129 Exchange adjustments 1 1 31 December 270 49 319 At 31 December 2007 the Group held 36 million 2006: 16 million of customer deposits for the purposes of mitigating the credit risk associated with receivables from residential and business customers.
At 31 December 2007 there was no provision for credit losses associated with receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 2006: nil because all balances are considered to be fully recoverable.
Exposure to credit risk associated with receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties is monitored by counterparty credit rating as follows: Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement Carrying value AAA AA A BBB BB or lower Unrated m m m m m m m counterparties by credit rating 2007 875 7 189 277 129 26 247 2006 6904116252125 46147 The unrated counterparty receivables are comprised primarily of amounts due from subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses.
Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties are managed in accordance with the Groups credit risk management policies as described in note 4.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are generally held for the purposes of proprietary energy trading, treasury management or energy procurement.
Derivatives held for the purposes of proprietary energy trading are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Groups results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, with the exception of certain derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts note 2.
Derivative financial instruments held for the purposes of treasury management or energy procurement are also carried at fair value, with changes in the fair value of derivatives relating to treasury management reflected in the results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, and those relating to energy procurement reflected in certain re-measurements.
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Notes 2 and 22 provide further detail on the Groups hedge accounting.
Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract note 2.
98 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21.
Derivative financial instruments continued The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives assets 44 225 52 Energy derivatives liabilities 199 8 26 Derivative financial instruments held for the purposes of treasury management or energy procurement Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives assets 789 503 1,100 Energy derivatives liabilities 1,143 Interest rate derivatives assets 2 2 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 5 4 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 19 17 80 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 4 375 629 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss Energy derivatives assets 9 3 86 Energy derivatives liabilities 57 77 54 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships Energy derivatives assets 123 16 68 Energy derivatives liabilities 500 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 7 40 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 11 17 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 10 31 523 Net total 429 1,180 The net total reconciles to the Balance Sheet as follows: 2007 2006 m m Derivative financial instruments non-current assets 72 17 Derivative financial instruments current assets 914 760 986 777 Derivative financial instruments current liabilities 1,404 1,737 11 Derivative financial instruments non-current liabilities 220 1,415 1,957 429 Net total 1,180 The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general components: 2007 2006 m m Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: UK and Europe 107 260 80 238 North America Structured gas purchase contracts 250 226 Structured gas sales contracts 553 390 65 38 Other 341 1,152 Net total 99 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Derivative financial instruments continued 2007 2006 Income Income Equity Statement Equity Statement m m m m Net gains losses on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss: 5 8 Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 230 840 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 35 54 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 3 535 30 837 193 535 916 837 Derivative-related credit risk assets Credit risk from derivative transactions is generated by the potential for the counterparty to default on its contractual obligations.
Therefore, derivative-related credit risk is represented by the positive fair value of the instrument and is normally a small fraction of the contracts notional amount.
Credit risk from derivatives is measured and managed by counterparty credit rating as follows: Carrying Fair value of derivative financial instruments with a value AAA AA A BBB BB or lower Unrated m m m m m m m positive fair value by counterparty credit rating 2007 986 372 272 51 291 2006 777236322 111 5355 To manage derivative-related counterparty credit exposure, the Group employs the use of margining and set-off rights in some agreements.
Under margining agreements, the Group has the right to request that the counterparty pay down or collateralise the current fair value of its derivatives position when the position passes a specified threshold.
At 31 December 2007 the Group was holding 93 million 2006: 33 million of cash as collateral against counterparty balances, and had pledged 118 million 2006: 61 million of cash as collateral, principally under margin calls to cover exposure to mark-to-market positions on derivative contracts.
Generally, cash paid or received as collateral is interest-bearing and is free from any restriction over its use.
Maturity profiles of derivative financial instruments liabilities IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis for financial liabilities that shows remaining contractual maturities on an undiscounted basis.
The following maturity analysis shows the remaining contractual maturities on an undiscounted basis for the Groups derivative financial instruments that are in a loss position at the balance sheet date and will be settled on a net basis: 2007 2006 m m Energy derivatives that will be settled on a net basis Less than one year 128 296 One to five years 53 113 More than five years 2 15 183 424 2007 2006 m m Interest rate derivatives that will be settled on a net basis Less than one year 9 5 One to five years 4 25 More than five years 1 10 14 40 100 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21.
Derivative financial instruments continued Certain of the Groups energy contracts that are accounted for as derivatives are for the physical purchase of energy.
In these cases IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all purchase contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date as follows: 2007 2006 m m Energy procurement contracts that are carried at fair value 12,076 Less than one year 10,652 One to five years 17,559 16,175 6,719 More than five years 7,638 36,354 34,465 The Groups foreign exchange derivative contracts will be settled on a gross basis.
In these cases IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all derivative contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date.
In addition to cash outflows on all foreign exchange derivative contracts that are gross settled on an undiscounted basis, the following analysis also provides disclosure of the related cash inflows as follows: 2007 2006 Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis 1,898 Less than one year 1,851 1,390 1,404 One to five years 811 785 436 442 130 More than five years 112 104 81 2,839 2,748 1,930 1,927 22.
Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Note 2 details the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The fair values of derivative and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows: 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges 9 12 Cash flow hedges 123 67 21 538 Net investment hedges: Primary financial instruments 74 117 Derivative financial instruments 16 6 Fair value hedges The Groups fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term debt due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and in the fair value of the hedged item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in income within net interest expense.
101 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22.
Hedge accounting continued Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges at 31 December were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Gains losses On hedging instruments 5 14 6 On hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 16 1 2 Cash flow hedges The Groups cash flow hedges consist primarily of: a physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts used to protect against the variability in future cash flows associated with highly probable forecast purchases of gas and power due to movements in market commodity prices: b forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions: and c interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in market interest rates.
Gains and losses are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in equity and are transferred to the Income Statement when the forecast cash flows affect the Income Statement.
Note 30 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2007 the Group recognised a gain of nil 2006: loss of 9 million due to cash flow hedge ineffectiveness.
Net investment hedges The Groups net investment hedges consist of foreign currency debt issued in the same currency as the net investment, foreign exchange forwards and cross-currency interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in the pounds sterling value of the Groups net investments in foreign operations due to movements in the relative strength of foreign currencies to pounds sterling.
Gains and losses on the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity and transferred to the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Gains and losses on the ineffective portion of the hedge are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2007 the Group did not recognise any gains or losses due to net investment hedge ineffectiveness 2006: nil.
Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 53 29 Short-term deposits 1,077 611 Cash and cash equivalents 1,130 640 Cash and cash equivalents includes 40 million 2006: 38 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary undertakings that is not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
Carrying Cash and cash equivalents by counterparty value AAA AA A Unrated m m m m m credit rating 2007 1,130 246 783 95 6 2006 640 198 284 158 102 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24.
Trade and other payables 2007 2006 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial liabilities: Trade payables 925 982 Other payables 756 14 731 26 Accruals Commodity costs 736 598 Transportation, distribution and metering costs 104 105 Operating and other accruals 572 547 1,412 1,250 3,093 14 2,963 26 Non-financial liabilities: Other payables and accruals 131 2 143 21 Deferred income 147 4 185 8 3,371 20 3,291 55 2007 2006 m m Maturity analysis of financial liabilities within trade and other payables Less than 90 days 2,908 2,829 90-182 days 24 23 183-365 days 161 111 3,093 2,963 Greater than 365 days 14 26 3,107 2,989 103 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
The Group has deconsolidated the Fund with effect from 1 December 2007 as explained in notes 3 and 35. ii Prior to the deconsolidation of the Fund with effect from 1 December 2007 units of the Fund were treated as debt in the Group Financial Statements.
Capital element Capital element Minimum lease of lease Minimum lease of lease payments payments payments payments 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m iii Future finance lease commitments Amounts payable: Within one year 43 20 51 25 Between one and five years 179 98 248 153 After five years 376 299 767 630 598 417 1,066 808 Less future finance charges 181 258 Present value of lease obligations 417 808 In addition to the minimum lease payments, tolling charges are payable, calculated based on effective operating hours of the station.
During the year 22 million 2006: 18 million of tolling charges were paid in respect of the Spalding tolling contract.
There are no restrictions under the finance leases in either the current or prior year.
104 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25.
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings continued Maturity profile of the Groups borrowings including interest and principal: 2007 2006 m m Recourse borrowings: i Within one year 322 280 Between one and five years 1,198 825 After five years 1,215 1,981 2,735 3,086 Non-recourse borrowings: Within one year 11 Between one and five years 65 After five years 500 2,735 3,662 721 Interest payments 926 2,014 2,736 i Recourse borrowings include amounts repayable on demand of 30 million 2006: 48 million.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1,300 million 2006: 1,300 million which mature in 2010.
2007 2006 Currency composition of the Groups borrowings: Before impact Impact of After impact of of foreign foreign foreign Before impact of Impact of After impact of currency currency currency foreign currency foreign currency foreign currency derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives m m m m m m Recourse borrowings: Pounds sterling 1,731 182 1,913 1,955 103 2,058 56 62 US dollars 56 162 100 Euros 131 57 74 68 68 Canadian dollars 27 27 27 27 42 41 Japanese yen 42 41 New Zealand dollars 27 27 2,014 2,014 2,253 2,253 Non-recourse borrowings: Canadian dollars 483 483 2,014 2,014 2,736 2,736 Average effective More than Earlier of contractual re-pricing and maturity: interest rate Total Within one year One to five years five years % m m m m 2007 Bank overdrafts and loans 5.8 347 232 21 94 Bonds 5.3 1,250 284 651 315 Obligations under finance leases 5.8 417 20 98 299 2,014 536 770 708 Impact of interest rate derivatives 627 464 163 2,014 1,163 306 545 Average effective More than interest rate Total Within one year One to five years five years % m m m m 2006 Bank overdrafts and loans 4.4 164 61 38 65 Bonds 5.41,181220 252709 Commercial paper 5.5 100 100 Obligations under finance leases 5.2 808 392 90 326 Non-recourse Canadian dollar bonds 4.9 218 218 Units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund N A 265 265 2,736 773 380 1,583 Impact of interest rate derivatives 424 223 201 2,736 1,197 157 1,382 105 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Deferred and current corporation tax liabilities and assets The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period: Accelerated Accelerated Other timing tax Deferred Deferred Retirement tax differences depreciation corporation Decommissioning corporation benefit obligation depreciation including petroleum tax effect petroleum tax effect and other corporation losses carried Marked-torevenue tax thereon revenue tax thereon provisions tax forward market Total m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2006 180 72 59 24 249 480 100 243 447 Change to rate on UK upstream profits 18 6 32 11 9 Credit charge to income 3 1 4 2 17 95 110 266 268 Charge credit to equity 143 312 169 Exchange and other adjustments 4 4 31 December 2006 177 89 63 32 89 607 221 339 15 Changes to tax rates 6 23 20 9 Credit charge to income 10 5 23 11 48 96 74 58 259 i Charge to equity 75 173 248 Acquisition of subsidiary note 35 127 81 46 Exchange and other adjustments 7 3 10 31 December 2007 167 84 86 43 28 807 201 105 569 i The charge to equity for retirement benefit obligations and other provisions includes a credit of 11 million in respect of tax rate changes.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax liabilities 596 241 Deferred tax assets 27 226 569 15 The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances before offset: 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax assets crystallising within one year 124 32 Deferred tax assets crystallising after one year 502 798 626 830 Offset against deferred tax liabilities 599 604 Net deferred tax assets 27 226 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising within one year 113 34 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising after one year 1,082 811 1,195 845 Offset against deferred tax assets 599 604 Net deferred tax liabilities 596 241 At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of 376 million 2006: 318 million available for utilisation against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
These assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date temporary differences of 62 million 2006: 36 million existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments.
The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be 3 million 2006: 8 million, which has been provided for.
Current tax assets of 40 million 2006: 98 million include 20 million 2006: 94 million of recoverable petroleum revenue tax PRT.
These sums represent refunds of instalment payments made during the second half of the year which are in excess of the final liability.
PRT instalment payments are calculated by reference to the previous periods profitability, not the profits of the period in which they are paid.
The 2006 sum was recovered in March 2007.
106 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Acquisitions Unused and Transferred 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and from non- 31 December Current provisions 2007 disposals the year the year additions current Utilised 2007 for other liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m i Restructuring costs 102 2 3 19 83 37 iii Decommissioning costs 5 2 3 ii Sales contract loss provision 16 14 2 iv Renegotiations provision 84 84 v Other 12 4 3 1 14 6 99 130 6 109 140 Acquisitions Unused and 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and Transferred to Exchange 31 December Non-current provisions 2007 disposals the year the year additions current adjustments 2007 for other liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m i Restructuring costs 46 5 19 32 iii Decommissioning costs 395 141392 5 2 511 iv Renegotiation provisions 85 6 84 7 v Other 25 27 2 1 31 551 16 31 2 92 109 2 581 2007 2006 Financial and non-financial liabilities within provisions for other Current Non-current Current Non-current liabilities and charges m m m m Financial liabilities: i Restructuring costs 35 31 102 42 iv Renegotiation provisions 84 7 85 v Other 7 5 12 18 126 43 114 145 Non-financial liabilities: i Restructuring costs 2 1 4 ii Sales contract loss provision 2 16 iii Decommissioning costs 3 511 395 v Other 7 26 7 14 538 16 406 140 581 130 551 107 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued Maturity analysis for financial liabilities within provisions for other liabilities and charges 2007 2006 m m on an undiscounted basis Within one year 126 114 Between one and two years 13 127 Between two and five years 16 15 After five years 16 14 171 270 i The restructuring provisions relate to significant restructuring programmes undertaken to achieve the Groups stated cost reduction targets.
Included within the provision are costs related to surplus properties of 51 million 2006: 60 million estimated with reference to the expected cost to be incurred to the point of lease termination, including costs for dilapidations and sub-letting.
The provisions are expected to be utilised between 2008 and 2022. ii The sales contract loss provision relates to the acquisition of a portfolio of gas customers by the Group.
Certain of the contracts acquired were identified as being out of the money at the date of acquisition, and the sales contract loss provision was established in respect of them.
iii Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The timing of decommissioning payments is dependent on the lives of the facilities but is anticipated to occur between 2008 and 2042.
The charge to income includes 13 million of notional interest 2006: 10 million.
iv In previous years, the Group renegotiated certain long-term take-or-pay contracts which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be in excess of requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
The provision represents the net present cost of estimated payments due to suppliers as consideration for the renegotiations, which are due for settlement in 2008 based on the reserves in a group of third-party fields.
The movement in the year included nil released to the Income Statement following a revision of the estimated future payments 2006: 11 million.
The charge for the year includes 6 million of notional interest 2006: 5 million.
v Other provisions include outstanding litigation for a number of items none of which are individually significant and provision for National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities.
The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 358.75 pence at 31 December 2007 2006: 354.50 pence and is expected to be utilised between 2008 and 2010.
108 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28.
Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties under no compulsion to act.
The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk.
The fair values of the Groups financial instruments together with the carrying amounts included in the Balance Sheet are analysed as follows: 2007 2006 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables, net of provisions Residential customers 1,633 1,633 1,974 1,974 Business customers 730 730 636 636 Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 875 875 690 690 Cash and cash equivalents 1,130 1,130 640 640 4,368 4,368 3,940 3,940 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading 44 44 225 225 Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 810 810 522 522 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 9 9 33 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 123 123 27 27 986 986 777 777 Available-for-sale financial assets: Debt 79 79 75 75 Equity 10 10 11 11 89 89 86 86 2007 2006 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value m m m m Financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Trade and other payables 3,107 3,107 2,989 2,989 Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings Bank overdrafts and loans 347 338 164 162 Bonds 1,250 1,246 1,181 1,176 Commercial paper 100 100 Obligations under finance leases including power station tolling arrangements 417 417 808 814 Non-recourse Canadian dollar bonds 218 227 Non-recourse units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 265 265 Provisions 169 169 259 259 5,290 5,277 5,984 5,992 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading 52 52 199 199 Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 1,185 1,185 1,151 1,151 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 86 86 57 57 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 92 92 550 550 1,415 1,415 1,957 1,957 109 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Fair value of financial instruments continued Financial instruments valued at their carrying values Due to their nature and or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values.
Available-for-sale financial assets The fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are based on quoted market prices, when available.
If quoted market prices are not available fair values are estimated using observable market data.
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings The fair values of bonds, Canadian dollar bonds and units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund prior to deconsolidation of the Fund as explained in note 3 are based on quoted market prices.
The fair values of bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest.
The fair values of overdrafts and commercial paper are assumed to equal their book values due to the short-term nature of these amounts.
The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting contractual cash flows with reference to the Groups cost of borrowing.
Derivative financial instruments and energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss The fair values of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives are determined by reference to closing market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of energy derivatives are determined using valuation techniques based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates not currently supported by observable market data.
The extent to which fair values of energy derivatives are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
The Group has judged each of the markets in which it operates as active, in both 2007 and 2006, for the purposes of accounting as follows: Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil Active period of markets UK years 2 2 4 5 4 North America years 5 5 N A N A N A The fair values of energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 that settle inside the active period of the market are based on quoted market prices and expected volumes, discounted at a rate of 6% 2006: 5%.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices.
In the UK, however, certain energy contracts extend beyond the active period of the market.
The fair values of energy contracts that extend beyond the active period of the market are determined by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques based on commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on internal market expectations and expected volumes, discounted using a discount rate of 5% 2006: 5%.
The net fair value of energy contracts recorded in the Financial Statements determined using valuation techniques based on nonobservable market variables at 31 December 2007 is a 322 million liability 2006: 262 million liability.
The total change in fair value of energy contracts estimated using valuation techniques based on variables not supportable by market prices that was recognised in the Income Statement during the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to a loss of 100 million 2006: loss of 117 million.
While internal market forecasts outside the active period of the market reasonably reflect all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, these expectations are not currently supportable by active forward market quotes.
The fair values of these contracts would change significantly if the assumptions in respect of gas, power, coal, emissions or oil prices were changed to reasonably possible alternatives.
The impacts of reasonably possible changes to assumed gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices on the net fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments determined using valuation models based on non-observable market data are as follows: 110 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28.
Fair value of financial instruments continued 2007 2006 Reasonably Reasonably Reasonably Reasonably possible possible possible possible increase decrease increase decrease in variable in variable in variable in variable Energy price UK gas p therm 12 -12 6 -6 UK power MWh 11 -11 10 -10 UK coal US$ tonne 15 -15 10 -10 UK emissions tonne 6 -6 5 -5 UK oil US$ bbl 14 -14 7 -7 2007 2006 m m Increase decrease in fair value UK energy prices increase 85 89 UK energy prices decrease 100 86 The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing energy contracts in relation to gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the balance sheet date.
The fair value impacts only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and are marked-to-market based on valuation models using assumptions that are not currently observable in an active market.
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of energy contracts changes.
Changes in fair values based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value may not be linear.
Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price a day-one gain or loss will arise.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available see note 2 for further detail.
The amount that has yet to be recognised in the Income Statement relating to the difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the amount that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Net deferred gains losses At 1 January 62 13 Net losses deferred on new transactions 103 9 Recognised in the Income Statement during the period: Amortisation 3 Unobservable inputs becoming observable 4 66 At 31 December 166 62 111 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Called up share capital 2007 2006 m m Authorised share capital of the Company 14 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 14 2006: 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 275 275 100,000 cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 14 3,679,980,311 ordinary shares of 6 p each 81 14 2006: 3,662,721,068 ordinary shares of 6 p each 227 226 81 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company for the year was as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number 1 January 3,662,721,068 3,623,982,266 i Shares repurchased 8,950,000 ii Shares issued under employee share schemes 17,259,243 47,688,802 31 December 3,679,980,311 3,662,721,068 The closing price of a Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2007 was 358.75 pence 2006: 354.50 pence.
i The share repurchase programme is currently suspended.
During 2006 the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 8.95 million ordinary shares at prices ranging from 248.43 pence per share to 254.98 pence per share, with an average of 250.30 pence per share.
The total cost of the purchases including expenses was 23 million which has been charged against distributable reserves, of which 0.6 million related to the nominal value and has been recognised in the capital redemption reserve.
ii Ordinary shares were also allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: 2007 2006 Number 17,259,243 47,688,802 Nominal value m 1.1 2.9 Consideration m net of issue costs nil 2006: nil 22 56 iii The Centrica Employees Share Trust Trust was established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company by subscription or purchase, with funds provided by way of interest-free loans or by capital contribution from the Company, to satisfy rights to shares on the vesting of allocations made under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements as explained in note 33.
2007 2006 Number Number of shares Cost Market value of shares Cost Market value Shares held in Trust million m m million m m 1 January Shares purchased 0.5 2 2 Shares subscribed 4.7 18 18 7.6 22 22 Shares released under Long Term Incentive Scheme 4.7 18 18 7.6 22 22 31 December 0.5 2 2 112 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30.
Reserves Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 1 January 2007 226 657 467 16 219 1,585 57 1,642 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 15 15 15 Exchange differences transferred to Income Statement 4 4 4 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 284 284 284 Gains on revaluation of available-for-sale assets 1 1 1 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 169 169 169 Transfers to Income Statement 382 382 382 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 248 248 248 226 65746716818 2,184 57 2,241 Profit for the year 1,505 1,505 2 1,507 Employee share schemes: Purchase of treasury 2 2 shares 2 Share issue 1 28 29 29 Exercise of awards 7 7 7 Value of services provided 31 31 31 417 417 Dividends 417 31 December 2007 227 685 467 16 1,928 3,323 59 3,382 Foreign currency Cash flow Total Revaluation translation hedging Profit and loss other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m Other reserves 1 January 2007 10 26 326 561 219 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 16 1 15 Exchange differences transferred to Income Statement 4 4 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 284 284 Gains on revaluation of available-for-sale assets 1 1 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 169 169 Transfers to Income Statement 382 382 248 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 173 75 10 14 51 771 818 Profit for the year 1,505 1,505 Employee share schemes: 2 Purchase of treasury shares 2 Exercise of awards 7 7 Value of services provided 31 31 417 Dividends 417 14 31 December 2007 10 51 1,881 1,928 113 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Reserves continued Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 1 January 2006 224 595 467 15 1,085 2,386 56 2,442 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 23 23 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 475 475 475 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 645 645 645 Transfers to Income Statement 294 294 294 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 169 169 169 224 595467157672,068 562,124 Loss for the year 155 155 1 154 Employee share schemes: Share issue 3 62 65 65 Exercise of awards 9 9 9 Value of services provided 23 23 23 Repurchase of shares 1 1 23 23 23 Dividends 384 384 384 31 December 2006 226 657 467 16 219 1,585 57 1,642 Foreign currency Cash flow Total Revaluation translation hedging Profit and loss other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m Other reserves 1 January 2006 10 3 301 777 1,085 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 23 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 475 475 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 645 645 Transfers to Income Statement 294 294 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 312 143 169 10 26 326 1,109 767 Loss for the year 155 155 Employee share schemes: Exercise of awards 9 9 Value of services provided 23 23 Repurchase of shares 23 23 Dividends 384 384 31 December 2006 10 26 326 561 219 Merger reserve On 17 February 1997 BG plc formerly British Gas plc demerged certain businesses grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited GBGH to Centrica plc.
Prior to demerger, the companies comprising the Centrica businesses were transferred to GBGH, a subsidiary undertaking of BG plc.
Upon demerger the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders.
In accordance with sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the shares issued.
On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Companys shares issued and the amount of share capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve.
114 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30.
Reserves continued Capital redemption reserve In accordance with section 170 1 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled.
The repurchase of shares includes transaction costs charged directly to the profit and loss reserve of nil 2006: nil.
Revaluation reserve During 2005 the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Humber Power Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake in the company, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
Foreign currency translation and net investment hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and net investment hedging reserve comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments, offset by exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Exchange gains of 48 million 2006: 105 million loss on net investments in overseas undertakings have been offset in reserves against exchange losses of 32 million 2006: 82 million gain on foreign currency borrowings and other instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Note 22 provides further detail on cash flow hedging.
2007 2006 m m Analysis of transfers from cash flow hedging reserve to Income Statement by line item 391 Gross profit 231 Net interest expense 9 63 382 294 The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation to commodity, interest rate and currency hedges, is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Within one year 17 266 Between one and five years 34 58 After five years 2 51 326 The maturity profile reflects the timing of expected transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Income Statement as and when the hedged item affects the Income Statement which is, for the most part, on delivery of physical volumes for energy contracts and the accrual of interest for debt contracts.
Share-based payments Profit and loss Treasury shares reserve Other reserve m m m m Profit and loss reserve 1 January 2007 38 523 561 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 284 284 Gains on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 75 75 38 733 771 Profit for the year 1,505 1,505 Employee share schemes: Purchase of treasury shares 2 2 Exercise of awards 18 11 7 Value of services provided 31 31 Dividends 417 417 31 December 2007 2 51 1,832 1,881 115 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Reserves continued Share-based payments Profit and loss reserve Other reserve m m m Profit and loss reserve 1 January 2006 42 735 777 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 475 475 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 143 143 42 1,067 1,109 Loss for the year 155 155 Employee share schemes: Exercise of awards 27 18 9 Value of services provided 23 23 Repurchase of shares 23 23 Dividends 384 384 31 December 2006 38 523 561 Profit and loss reserve Cumulative actuarial gains arising on defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the profit and loss reserve amounted to 723 million 2006: 439 million.
Cumulative gains of 3 million 2006: 2 million on available-for-sale financial assets were included within the profit and loss reserve.
Aggregate tax taken directly to reserves amounted to a charge of 248 million 2006: 169 million credit, of which a charge of 75 million relates to deferred tax arising on actuarial gains on the Groups defined benefit schemes 2006: 143 million, and a charge of 173 million relates to deferred tax arising on gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges 2006: 312 million credit.
The deferred tax charge relating to actuarial gains on the Groups defined benefit schemes includes an 11 million credit in respect of a change in tax rates.
Minority interests 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 57 56 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2 1 At 31 December 59 57 Minority interests at 31 December 2007 relate to a 30% economic interest 2006: 30% held by Lloyds TSB Bank plc in GF Two Limited formerly Goldfish Holdings Limited and its subsidiary, GF One Limited formerly Goldfish Bank Limited.
116 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 32.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement 2006 2007 restated i m m Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities Continuing operations Group operating profit including share of result of joint ventures and associates 2,184 130 Less share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 5 12 Group operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 2,179 142 Add back: Amortisation and write-down of intangible assets 92 93 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 473 463 Systems write-down 196 Employee share scheme costs 29 23 Profit on sale of businesses 2 3 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets 7 17 66 Movement in provisions 84 ii Re-measurement of energy contracts 218 911 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 2,494 1,892 Decrease increase in inventories 38 83 Decrease increase in receivables 181 259 Increase decrease in payables 44 150 Cash generated from continuing operations 2,757 1,400 341 Income taxes paid 311 Net petroleum revenue tax paid 60 316 Net interest received 24 4 90 Payments relating to exceptional charges 113 Net cash flow from continuing operating activities 2,290 664 Discontinued operations note 35 Group operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 266 50 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21 23 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 227 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets 5 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 66 73 Decrease increase in receivables 1 1 Increase in payables 1 Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities 67 73 Net cash flow from operating activities 2,357 737 i Restated to present exploration and evaluation expenditure, previously reported in property, plant and equipment, in other intangible assets on the Balance Sheet and to present The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund as a discontinued operation.
Note 2 details the change of accounting presentation and note 3 explains the deconsolidation of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
ii Adds back unrealised profits losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts, including those related to proprietary trading activities.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the Balance Sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
117 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Share-based payments Employee share schemes are designed to encourage participants to align their objectives with those of shareholders.
Centrica operates eight employee share schemes the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS beginning in 2007, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, Sharesave, the Share Award Scheme SAS, the Restricted Share Scheme RSS beginning in 2007, the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
These are described in the Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Review on page 32 and in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45.
There were no other share-based payment transactions during the period.
DMSS Awards under the DMSS are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
The scheme operates over a fouryear vesting period.
Under normal conditions the grant date of the scheme is the first day of each bonus year.
This is followed by a vesting period of four years, being the bonus year plus a three-year performance period.
In 2006, the first year of the scheme, shareholders approval was obtained at the AGM on 19 May 2006 and as such the grant date reflects the date of this approval.
The fair value of the award reflects the market value of the shares at the grant date.
The scheme comprises three separable elements: a Deferred shares The scheme requires participants to defer 20% of their annual bonus into the scheme.
The shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period, during which time they cannot be withdrawn.
An employee who leaves prior to the vesting date will forfeit their right to the shares.
All shares held in trust will be eligible to receive dividends.
The number of shares deferred is estimated from the participants maximum bonus and the likelihood of bonus payout in the bonus year.
Subsequent revisions are made based on the actual bonus paid in the year.
b Investment shares The scheme allows participants to elect to invest an additional amount of their annual bonus into the scheme up to a maximum of 50% of their total potential bonus for the year.
This 50% limit includes the amount automatically deferred each year.
The number of shares invested is estimated based on the maximum bonus in year one.
The shares may be funded directly from the employee or through a release of the employees LTIS shares.
Subsequent to the bonus year, the shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period and vest unconditionally at election, thus the shares carry no additional IFRS 2 expense.
Participants can unconditionally withdraw the invested shares at any point throughout the vesting period.
The shares are eligible to receive dividends.
c Matching shares Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional matching shares, which will be released upon the achievement, over a three-year performance period, of three-year cumulative Group economic profit performance targets.
Group economic profit is calculated by taking Group operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements after tax and subtracting a charge for capital employed based on the weighted average cost of capital.
The number of matching shares that will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis from a zero match for no growth in economic profit up to a two-times match for growth of 25% or above.
The number of matching shares, subject to the performance conditions, is grossed up to reflect the impact of tax and National Insurance.
The number of matching shares released following the satisfaction of the performance condition will be increased to reflect the dividends that would have been paid during the three-year performance period.
The likelihood of achieving the performance conditions is taken into account in calculating the number of awards expected to vest.
Estimates are made in year one and revised in subsequent years.
An employee that leaves prior to the vesting date will forfeit their right to the shares.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 1 January 19 May 2007 2006 Grant date Share price at grant date 3.55 2.65 Exercise price nil nil i Number of investment shares 492,090 489,642 i Number of deferred shares originally granted 434,768 432,605 i Number of matching shares originally granted 2,654,925 2,641,716 Vesting period 4 yrs 3.6 yrs Contractual life 4 yrs 3.6 yrs Expected dividend yield n a n a Expected forfeitures 25% 25% Expected performance lapses 0% 0% Fair value per share allocated 3.55 2.65 118 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33.
Share-based payments continued i The number of shares originally granted and fair value allocated are estimated on the grant date and then adjusted following the announcement of the actual annual performance bonus and subsequent investment by participants.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations of deferred and matching shares actually made is shown below: 2007 Number Outstanding at start of period Granted 3,074,321 Exercised Forfeited 53,676 Outstanding at the end of the period 3,020,645 Exercisable at the end of the period There were no shares released during the period.
119 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued ESOS Under the ESOS the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares at the legal date of grant which approximates, or is the same as, the grant date for accounting purposes.
The contractual life of an option is ten years.
Awards under the ESOS are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
The most recent award was made in 2006.
There are no further awards planned at this time.
Options granted under the ESOS will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding RPI growth by more than 18 percentage points.
The number of options becoming exercisable is reduced on a sliding scale if EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by between nine and 18 percentage points.
Options granted up to March 2004 also permit retesting of EPS growth annually for a further two years.
Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group.
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
Early exercise has been taken into account by estimating the expected life of the options.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 27 April 23 September 1 April 1 September 18 March 1 September 24 March 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Grant date Share price at grant date 2.99 2.46 2.28 2.46 2.28 1.80 1.47 Exercise price 2.85 2.51 2.29 2.45 2.24 1.78 1.47 Number of options originally granted 6,220,098 291,235 8,339,818 195,795 8,815,399 635,599 13,319,276 Vesting period 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 24%30%30%27%27% 35%35% Contractual option life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs Expected life 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs Risk-free rate 4.70% 4.80% 4.70% 5.00% 5.01% 4.45% 4.44% Expected dividend yield 4.10% 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% 3.09% 3.09% Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% Fair value per option 0.59 0.50 0.49 0.47 0.45 0.51 0.41 i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43%.
This was felt to be unrepresentative because it included a significant period of exceptionally high volatility in 1999-2000.
In this case the volatility was reassessed ignoring this period.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life.
120 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33.
Share-based payments continued LTIS Under the LTIS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to employees of the Group.
Awards under the LTIS are generally reserved for employees at senior management level.
For awards made up to 2005, the number of shares to be released to participants is calculated subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR during the three years following the grant date, compared with the TSR of other shares in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The number of shares released is reduced on a sliding scale if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 25th.
Shares are released to participants immediately following the end of the period in which TSR performance is assessed, but release of shares is subject to continued employment within the Group at the date of release.
Allocations were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations, through the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model.
For awards made from 2006, the vesting of only half of each award is made on the basis of TSR performance.
For this half of the award, the calculation of TSR performance as compared with the TSR of other FTSE 100 Index shares is consistent with awards made to the end of 2005, except that allocations are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of shares released is increased on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 20th.
The vesting of the remaining half of awards made since 2006 is dependent on earnings per share EPS growth.
This is considered a non-market condition under IFRS 2 and dividends attach to the awards, requiring the shares to be fair valued at market value on the date of grant.
For shares that vest on awards made from 2006 for both TSR and EPS portions the cash payment is increased to reflect the dividends that would have been paid on them during the performance period.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 14 September 4 April 4 September 19 May 2 May 23 September 1 April 1 September 1 April 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004 Grant date Share price at grant date 3.77 3.91 3.03 2.65 3.01 2.46 2.28 2.46 2.30 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil Number of shares originally granted 228,423 6,239,643 654,396 1,456,064 6,153,355 456,421 8,408,130 310,460 9,765,341 Vesting period 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 2.9 yrs 2.9 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 21% 21% 22% 22% 21% 30% 30% 27% 27% Contractual life 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 2.9 yrs 2.9 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Expected life 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 2.9 yrs 2.9 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Risk-free rate 5.40% 5.40% 4.80% 4.80% 4.70% 4.80% 4.68% 5.00% 5.04% Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% Expected forfeitures 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% Average volatility of FTSE 100 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 ii ii ii ii ii ii ii 30% 30% Fair value per share allocated TSR awards 2.26 2.26 1.66 1.38 1.80 1.20 1.03 1.25 1.17 Fair value per share allocated EPS awards 3.77 3.91 3.03 2.65 3.01 n a n a n a n a i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43%.
The expected life is the contract life.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 121 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued 2007 2006 Number Number Outstanding at start of period 20,989,594 26,434,295 Granted 6,468,066 8,263,815 4,655,598 Exercised 7,538,399 Forfeited performance related 57,315 2,342,414 2,918,980 Forfeited non performance related 3,827,703 Outstanding at the end of the period 19,825,767 20,989,594 Exercisable at the end of the period 35,159 ii From 2005, the cross-correlation of the FTSE 100 has been obtained from a model which calculates the correlation between Centricas historical share price and each of the FTSE 100 over the period commensurate with the performance period of the awards.
For shares released during the period the weighted average share price was 3.91 2006: 2.89.
Sharesave Under Sharesave, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to UK-based employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for the three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a fixed amount from salary into a savings account each month, and may elect to save over three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months in which to exercise their options using the funds saved, including interest earned.
If employees decide not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved, and the options expire.
The expected life is the contract life, which is a fixed term of three years.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Number Number Outstanding at start of period 55,295,229 1.58 73,748,195 1.30 Granted 9,326,314 2.91 12,136,359 2.38 9,634,541 Exercised 1.64 26,279,815 1.14 Forfeited 3,654,241 2.09 4,308,655 1.67 5,349 Expired 1.78 855 1.78 Outstanding at the end of the period 51,327,412 1.78 55,295,229 1.58 Exercisable at the end of the period 67,165 1.81 13,406 1.07 122 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33.
SAS Under the SAS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to selected employees of the Group.
Awards under the SAS are generally reserved for certain selected employees at middle management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources.
There is no contractual eligibility for SAS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment with the Group in two stages half of the award vesting after two years, the other half vesting after three years.
On vesting, additional shares or a cash payment are made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the retention period.
The fair value is therefore considered to be the market value at date of grant.
The fair values and related assumptions used to calculate the cost to the Group are as follows: 4 April 4 April 3 April 3 April 2007 2007 2006 2006 Grant date Share price at grant date 3.91 3.91 2.84 2.84 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Number of options originally granted 585,022 584,781 780,367 780,143 Vesting period 3 yrs 2 yrs 3 yrs 2 yrs Contractual option life 3 yrs 2 yrs 3 yrs 2 yrs Expected forfeitures 25% 15% 25% 15% Fair value per option 3.91 3.91 2.84 2.84 123 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number Outstanding at start of period 1,464,559 Granted 1,169,803 1,560,510 Exercised 22,781 3,096 Forfeited 147,319 92,855 Outstanding at end of period 2,464,262 1,464,559 Exercisable at end of period For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of release was 3.75 2006: 3.40.
RSS Under the RSS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to employees of the Group on a highly selective basis.
Awards under the RSS are reserved for certain selected key employees at senior management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources.
Neither the Executive Directors nor the next tier of executive management is eligible to participate.
There is no contractual eligibility for RSS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
2007 was the first year of awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group in one or two stages dependent on the individual awards.
The fair values and related assumptions used to calculate the cost to the Group are as follows: 29 June 4 June 4 June 4 April 4 April 4 April 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Grant date Share price at grant date 3.88 3.78 3.78 3.91 3.91 3.91 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil Number of options originally granted 59,407 78,534 47,117 53,157 89,322 36,166 Vesting period 3 yrs 3 yrs 2 yrs 3 yrs 2 yrs 1 yr Contractual option life 3 yrs 3 yrs 2 yrs 3 yrs 2 yrs 1 yr Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 15% 25% 15% 5% Fair value per option 3.88 3.78 3.78 3.91 3.91 3.91 A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2007 Number Outstanding at start of period Granted 363,703 Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at the end of the period 363,703 Exercisable at the end of the period There were no shares released during the period.
124 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33.
Share-based payments continued SIP Under SIP, employees in the UK may purchase partnership shares through monthly salary deductions.
The Company then grants one matching share for every two purchased, up to a maximum of 20 matching shares per employee per month.
Both partnership shares and matching shares are held in a trust initially.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but matching shares are forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within three years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for three years in the trust.
Vesting of matching shares is also subject to continued employment within the Group.
Matching shares are valued at the market price at the grant date.
The average fair value of these awards during the year was 3.72 2006: 2.97.
A reconciliation of matching shares held in trust is as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number Unvested at start of period 2,500,916 2,067,233 Granted 633,348 771,767 Shares sold and transferred out of the plan 292,005 199,711 Forfeited 122,955 138,373 Unvested at end of period 2,719,304 2,500,916 ESPP Under the ESPP, employees in North America purchase partnership shares through salary deductions.
The Company then grants one matching share for every two shares purchased.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but the entitlement to matching shares is forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within two years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for two years.
The average fair value of these awards during the year was 3.69 2006: 2.97.
A reconciliation of matching shares granted is shown below: 2007 2006 Number Number Unvested at start of period 369,163 208,329 Granted 200,398 230,916 Vested 167,687 29,353 Forfeited 36,096 40,729 Unvested at end of period 365,778 369,163 125 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Pensions Substantially all of the Groups UK employees at 31 December 2007 were members of one of the three main schemes: the Centrica Pension Scheme, the Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme together the approved pension schemes.
The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme a final salary scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003.
The Centrica Pension Scheme has an open career average salary section.
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme final salary section was closed to new members from 1 April 2006, and a career average salary section was added to the scheme at that date.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes and are tax-approved funded arrangements.
They are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is an unfunded arrangement which provides benefits to certain employees whose benefits under the main schemes would otherwise be limited by the earnings cap.
The Group also has a commitment to provide certain pension and post-retirement benefits to employees of Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the approved pension schemes at 31 March 2006, the Unapproved Pension Scheme at 6 April 2005 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited pension plan at 14 June 2005.
These have been updated to 31 December 2007 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
Investments have been valued, for this purpose, at market value.
31 December 31 December 2007 2006 % % Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation Rate of increase in employee earnings 4.40 4.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.40 3.00 Discount rate 5.80 5.00 Inflation assumption 3.40 3.00 The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include a medium cohort allowance for future improvements in longevity, as published by the Institute of Actuaries.
The assumptions are equivalent to future longevity for members in normal health approximately as follows: 2007 2006 Male Female Male Female Years Years Years Years Life expectancy at age 65 for a member: Currently aged 65 20.2 21.8 20.2 21.7 Currently aged 45 21.4 22.9 21.3 22.9 At 31 March 2006, the date of the most recent actuarial review, the schemes had approximately 31,900 members and beneficiaries 20,850 male and 11,050 female.
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension schemes.
2007 2006 Indicative Indicative effect effect on Increase on scheme scheme decrease in liabilities Increase decrease liabilities % in assumption % assumption Impact of changing material assumptions Rate of increase in employee earnings 0.25% -2 0.25% -2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% -4 0.25% -4 Discount rate 0.25% - 6 0.25% - 6 Inflation assumption 0.25% -6 0.25% -6 Longevity assumption 1 year -2 1 year -2 126 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34.
Pensions continued The expected rate of return and market value of the assets and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at 31 December were: Expected rate Expected rate of return of return per annum Valuation per annum Valuation 2007 2007 2006 2006 % m % m UK equities 8.1 1,549 7.8 1,486 Non-UK equities 8.1 931 7.8 857 Fixed-interest bonds 5.8 412 5.3 312 Index-linked bonds 4.5 351 4.3 213 Property 6.8 50 6.2 68 Cash and other assets 5.4 34 5.0 52 Total fair value of plan assets 7.4 3,327 7.2 2,988 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,230 3,284 Net asset liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 97 296 Associated deferred tax liability asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 28 89 Net pension asset liability 69 207 Net asset liability recognised in the Balance Sheet comprises: Surpluses 152 Deficits 55 296 97 296 The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective expected returns on separate asset classes.
The returns on separate asset classes were derived as follows: the expected rate of return on equities is based on the expected median return over a ten-year period, as calculated by the independent company actuary.
The median return over a longer period than ten years was not expected to be materially dissimilar.
The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual market yields for UK gilts and corporate bond stocks.
The rate above takes into account the actual mixture of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the balance sheet date.
The expected rate of return on property takes into account both capital growth and allowance for expenses, rental growth and depreciation.
The expected rate of return on cash is comparable to current bank interest rates.
Included within the schemes liabilities above are 31 million 2006: 27 million relating to unfunded pension arrangements.
Included within non-current available-for-sale financial assets are 30 million 2006: 29 million of investments, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme.
2007 2006 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit Current service cost 127 143 i Plan amendment 20 Loss on curtailment 18 Net charge to operating profit 127 141 i The Schemes rules were amended from 1 April 2006 to allow employees to commute a larger amount of their pension to a cash lump sum on retirement, in line with changes to the Finance Act.
Accordingly, the assumptions made in calculating the Groups defined benefit pension liability were revised, and a gain of 20 million was recognised in Group operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Future revisions to the assumptions will be reflected within the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
2007 2006 m m Analysis of the amount credited to notional interest Expected return on pension scheme assets 221 194 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 166 168 Net credit to notional interest income 55 26 127 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Pensions continued Analysis of the actuarial gain loss recognised in the Statement 2007 2006 m m of Recognised Income and Expense 38 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 95 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 16 145 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 338 235 Actuarial gain to be recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before adjustment for tax 284 475 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in reserves at 1 January 439 36 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in reserves at 31 December 723 439 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m Five year history of surplus deficit Plan assets 3,327 2,988 2,570 2,041 2,353 Defined benefit obligation 3,230 3,284 3,390 2,760 3,491 Surplus deficit 97 296 820 719 1,138 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Five year history of experience gains and losses Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 38 95 307 64 202 Percentage of scheme assets 1.1% 3.2% 11.9% 3.1% 8.6% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 16 145 21 134 64 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.5% 4.4% 0.6% 4.9% 1.8% Total actuarial gain loss recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense: Amount m 284 475 126 90 281 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 8.8% 14.5% 3.7% 3.3% 8.0% 2007 2006 m m Movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year 1 January 3,284 3,390 Movements in the year: Current service cost 127 143 Plan amendment 20 Loss on curtailment 36 18 Interest on scheme liabilities 166 168 Plan participants contributions 25 25 Benefits paid from schemes 87 60 Benefits paid by company 1 Actuarial gain loss 322 380 Acquisitions 2 31 December 3,230 3,284 128 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34.
Pensions continued 2007 2006 m m Movement in plan assets during the year 1 January 2,988 2,570 Movements in the year: Expected return on scheme assets 221 194 38 Actuarial loss gain 95 Employer contributions 218 164 Plan participants contributions 25 25 Benefits paid from schemes 87 60 31 December 3,327 2,988 Agreed future employer contribution rates pensionable salary and % of pensionable salary 2007 2007 m % for the three main defined benefit schemes Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 149 22.4 Centrica Pension Scheme CRIS section 90 10.9 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Final salary section 174 23.0 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme CERIS section 32 12.5 Centrica Management Pension Scheme 71 22.6 129 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Acquisitions and disposals i Acquisitions During the year, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Newfield UK Holdings Limited from Newfield International Holdings Inc for cash consideration of 250 million 242 million base consideration, plus adjustments for working capital and indebtedness arising between the effective date and the completion date.
Other smaller acquisitions are described in section b.
The purchase method of accounting was adopted in all cases.
The analysis of assets and liabilities acquired, and the fair value of these acquisitions, are as shown below.
All intangible fixed assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired on each acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the Financial Statements.
The fair values stated are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
IFRS carrying values Fair pre-acquisition value m m a Newfield UK Holdings Limited Other intangible assets 12 Property, plant and equipment 97 244 Inventory 22 Trade and other receivables 44 Cash and cash equivalents 33 Trade and other payables 8 8 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 14 16 Deferred tax liabilities 46 Net assets acquired 84 195 Goodwill arising 55 Cash consideration 250 The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Newfield UK Holdings Limited on 5 October 2007 for cash consideration of 250 million.
Newfield UK Holdings Limited is an exploration and production group with activities focused in the UK Southern Gas Basin.
The acquired business contributed a profit after tax of 7 million to the Group for the period from 5 October 2007 to 31 December 2007.
The book values of assets and liabilities have been adjusted to align with the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired.
The adjustments to recognise other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at fair value mainly relate to the acquired exploration assets and producing gas field assets.
Goodwill has principally arisen in relation to the recognition of deferred tax on these fair value adjustments.
b Other acquisitions On 8 February 2007, the Groups subsidiary The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund acquired the water heater rental business of Toronto Hydro Energy Services Inc. for cash consideration of 18 million.
The fair value of net assets acquired comprised 10 million for water heater fixed assets and 8 million for intangible assets representing acquired contractual customer relationships.
In addition, the Fund acquired approximately 3,400 water heaters from Festival Hydro Inc. for cash consideration of 0.7 million on 1 November 2007.
Net assets acquired, including intangible assets, were recorded at their determined fair values of 0.7 million.
No goodwill was recorded on these acquisitions.
The Group has deconsolidated The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund with effect from 1 December 2007 as explained in note 3.
These acquired businesses are included in the assets and liabilities of the Fund as deconsolidated with effect from 1 December 2007, with associated cash flows included within discontinued activities.
The Group acquired the home appliance service assets of Mabe Canada Inc. on 22 January 2007 consideration 3 million, goodwill 2.5 million and the home appliance service repair business of Factory Appliance consideration 0.5 million, goodwill 0.4 million on 7 May 2007.
On 14 September 2007 the residential new construction, service and replacement business CA Woods was acquired by the Group consideration 0.8 million, goodwill 0.5 million.
130 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the 2007 acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the period, include revenues from continuing operations of 16,382 million and a profit after tax of 1,506 million.
The pro forma results have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
In preparing the pro forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 January 2007 and inter-company transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group.
During 2007, the Group paid 11 million of contingent and deferred consideration, 10 million representing the final contingent payment relating to the acquisition of CPL WTU in 2002 and 1 million representing a deferred payment relating to the acquisition of Wainstones Power Limited in 2004. ii Disposals a Discontinued operation The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund As explained in note 3, the Group has deconsolidated The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund with effect from 1 December 2007.
The Group previously consolidated the Fund in accordance with SIC-12, Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
An analysis of assets and liabilities disposed of and the pre-tax profit arising on disposal is presented below: m Attributable goodwill 124 Other intangible assets customer relationships and other 9 Property, plant and equipment water heaters 221 Trade and other receivables current 4 Cash and cash equivalents 15 Trade and other payables current 8 Bank overdrafts and loans 15 Issued bonds 248 Borrowings units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 325 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4 Net liabilities disposed of 227 Gain on disposal of discontinued operation 227 Proceeds on disposal Attributable goodwill represents the portion of goodwill within the Canada home services cash-generating unit which is allocated to the operations of the Fund on its deconsolidation.
Goodwill arose on the Enbridge Services acquisition in 2002.
The water heater assets acquired as part of this acquisition were transferred to the Fund on its creation in 2002.
Goodwill has been attributed to the Fund on its deconsolidation on the basis of the relative fair value of both the Fund and the remaining operations contained within the Canada home services cash-generating unit.
At the date of deconsolidation the Group held a nil% interest in the Fund.
Accordingly, nil proceeds arise on deconsolidating the Fund from the Group accounts.
The units in the Fund have historically been accounted for as a financial liability of the Group as opposed to a minority interest in equity due to the redemption rights which attach to them.
This liability has only ever represented a liability of the Fund and has therefore been previously presented as non-recourse borrowings.
On deconsolidating the Fund, a gain of 227 million arises principally as a result of extinguishing this liability, net of attributable goodwill.
Given its materiality and non-recurring nature this gain is presented as exceptional within the Income Statement.
131 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The Funds activities represent a separate major line of business for the Direct Energy segment and contributed materially to Group borrowings.
In order to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the impact of deconsolidating the Fund, the results in the current year and prior year have been presented as a discontinued operation distinct from continuing operations within the Group Income Statement.
The effect of the discontinued operation on the Direct Energy segment results is presented in note 6.
An analysis of the results of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund presented as a discontinued operation within the Group Income Statement is as follows: 2007 2006 Results for the period to 1 December Results for before the year before exceptional Exceptional Results for exceptional Exceptional items and certain items and certain the period to items and certain items and certain Results for re-measurements re-measurements 1 December re-measurements re-measurements the year m m m m m m Revenue 42 42 47 47 i Cost of sales 27 27 25 25 Gross profit 69 69 72 72 Operating costs 30 30 22 22 Operating profit 39 39 50 50 Net interest expense 38 19 57 42 37 5 Profit loss before taxation 1 19 18 8 37 45 Tax credit 6 6 Profit loss after taxation from discontinued 19 18 operation 1 14 37 51 Gain on disposal of discontinued operation 227 227 Taxation on gain on disposal of discontinued operation Discontinued operations 1 208 209 14 37 51 i Included in discontinued operations is elimination of the cost of sales incurred on sales of water heaters from Direct Energy to the Fund resulting in a credit to the cost of sales reported above.
In previous years, the Group has been subject to capital gains tax on the sell-down of its equity in the Fund.
At the date of deconsolidation the Group held a nil equity interest in the Fund and nil proceeds arose on deconsolidating the Fund from the Group accounts.
Accordingly, nil tax arises on the gain on deconsolidation.
Centrica continues to service the majority of the Funds assets and continues to procure water heater assets for the Fund.
The revenues received from the Fund for undertaking these activities is included as part of the continuing operations of the Direct Energy segment as shown in note 37. b Discontinued operation OneTel In 2006, the finalisation of the OneTel disposal resulted in a charge to the Income Statement of 8 million net of a 3 million tax credit.
132 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36.
Commitments and contingencies a Commitments 2007 2006 m m Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment Construction of a power station at Langage 201 219 Construction of Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms 114 99 Redevelopment of Statfjord gas field 83 72 Other 69 102 467 492 2007 2006 m m Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets Renewable obligation certificates 1,075 869 Carbon emissions certificates 224 122 Certified emission reduction certificates 99 91 Other 49 30 1,447 1,112 2007 2006 m m Commitments in relation to other contracts Liquefied natural gas capacity 754 522 Transportation capacity 445 461 Outsourcing of services 167 36 Other 110 76 1,476 1,095 b Decommissioning costs The Group has provided certain guarantees and indemnities to BG Group plc in respect of the decommissioning costs of the Morecambe gas fields.
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, have agreed to provide security, in respect of such guarantees and indemnities, to BG International Limited, which, as original licence holder for the Morecambe gas fields, will have exposure to decommissioning costs relating to the Morecambe gas fields should liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the Morecambe gas fields falls below 150% of the estimated cost of such decommissioning.
The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant Department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform formerly Department of Trade and Industry decommissioning notice in respect of the Morecambe gas fields has been revoked.
c Operating lease commitments At 31 December the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods were: 2007 2006 m m Within one year 88 80 Between one and five years 165 172 After five years 146 160 399 412 133 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
Commitments and contingencies continued 2007 2006 m m The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 31 December 8 17 Lease and sub-lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: Minimum leasepayments 60 67 i Contingent rents renewables 48 30 i The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable sources.
Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and therefore the commitment to a minimum lease payment included above is nil 2006: nil.
Payments made for physical power are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents.
d Contingent liabilities There are no contingent liabilities.
e Guarantees and indemnities In connection with the Groups energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay or provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in creditworthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
f Commodity purchase contracts The Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
Commodity purchase commitments are estimated, on an undiscounted basis, as follows: 2007 2006 m m Within one year 8,400 7,800 Between one and five years 18,100 16,100 After five years 9,100 10,400 35,600 34,300 The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The resulting monetary commitment is based on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to pay at estimated future prices.
The estimated commitment to make payments under gas procurement contracts differs in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note 21.
Only certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 21.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating principal values are estimated using valuation techniques.
Contractual commitments which are subject to fulfilment of conditions precedent are excluded.
Related party transactions During the year the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2007 2006 Sale Purchase Sale Purchase of goods and of goods Other of goods and of goods Other services and services transactions services and services transactions m m m m m m Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 14 2 8 1 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 10 The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 72 2 65 2 72 24 4 65 8 3 134 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37.
Related party transactions continued Balances outstanding with related parties at 31 December were as follows: 2007 2006 Provision for Provision for bad or doubtful bad or doubtful debt relating to debt relating to Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed from related to related from related from related to related from related parties parties parties parties parties parties m m m m m m Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 26 4 23 3 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 4 The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 3 3 29 8 26 3 Barrow Offshore Wind Limited and Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited are both joint ventures of the Group.
The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund was deconsolidated with effect from 1 December 2007.
The deconsolidation is explained in note 3.
The transactions disclosed in the tables above reflect all transactions entered into with the Fund for the full year.
2007 2006 m m Remuneration of key management personnel Short-term benefits 8 8 Post-employment benefits 3 5 Share-based payments 5 3 16 16 Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 15 individuals at 31 December 2007 2006: 13.
Key management personnel and their families purchase gas, electricity and home services products from the Group for domestic purposes on an arms length basis.
Fixed-fee service contracts Fixed-fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in the UK and North America HomeCare: 100, 200, 300, 400, HomeCare Flexi: 100, 200, 300, 400, Gas Appliance Care, Gas Appliance Check, Plumbing and Drains Care, Plumbing and Drains Care Flexi, Kitchen Appliance Care, Home Electrical Care and Home Electrical Care Flexi in the UK, and Heating Protection, Cooling Protection and Plumbing and Drains Protection in North America.
These contracts continue until cancelled by either party to the contract.
These plans incorporate both an annual service element and a maintenance element.
Fixed-fee service contracts protect purchasers of these contracts against the risk of breakdown of electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling and household appliances, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk from contract holders to Centrica.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however, generally include repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The risk and level of service required within the maintenance element of the contracts is dependent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Accordingly, the timing and amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: one safety and maintenance inspection in every year of the agreement for HomeCare: 100, 200, 300, 400 excluding electrical fixtures, HomeCare Flexi: 100, 200, 300, 400 excluding electrical fixtures, Gas Appliance Care and Gas Appliance Check in the UK, and Heating Protection Plus and Cooling Protection Plus in North America : one safety and maintenance inspection in every continuous two-year period of the agreement for HomeCare 400 electrical fixtures only, HomeCare Flexi: 400 electrical fixtures only, Home Electrical Care, Home Electrical Care Flexi, Kitchen Appliance Care, Plumbing and Drains Care and Plumbing and Drains Care Flexi : no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out work included within the selected agreement: and caps on certain maintenance and repair costs within fixed-fee contracts.
135 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
Fixed-fee service contracts continued Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance potentially being required at any point within the contract term.
Cost of sales relates directly to the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
The costs of claims under the fixed-fee service contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services.
These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
No further claims costs are accrued.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can affect the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Centricas obligations under the terms of its home services fixed-fee service contracts are based on the following types of uncertain future events taking place within the contract period: boiler, radiator, controls, hot water cylinder and pipe work breakdown: gas fire, water heater, wall heater and gas cooker breakdown: hot and cold water pipe, overflow, cold tank, toilet siphon and radiator valve breakdown: washing machine, tumble drier, dishwasher, fridge, freezer, cooker, oven, hob and microwave oven breakdown: fixed electrical wiring system, fuse box, light switch, wall socket, circuit breaker and transformer breakdown: ventor motor, circuit board, direct drive motor and flame sensor breakdown: and evaporator and condenser fan motor breakdown.
Centrica actively manages the risk exposure of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: an initial service visit is performed for central heating care.
If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the fixedfee service contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided: an annual or bi-annual safety and maintenance inspection is performed to ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant maintenance or breakdown issues: and caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into fixed-fee service contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of prevalence and cost to repair.
The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
Each incremental 1% increase in service requests would impact profit and equity by approximately 7 million 2006: 7 million.
The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and do not contain any embedded derivatives.
2007 2006 m m Total revenue 885 785 Expenses relating to fixed-fee service contracts 727 683 Deferred income 34 37 The claims notified during the year were 269 million 2006: 258 million and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed-fee service contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
136 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39.
Events after the balance sheet date The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.65 pence per share totalling 355 million for the year ended 31 December 2007.
On 14 January 2008 the Group acquired 88.4% of the outstanding common shares of publicly traded oil and gas company Rockyview Energy Inc. Rockyview for cash consideration of C$68 million 34 million and the remaining 11.6% of the outstanding common shares of Rockyview by 19 February 2008 in a series of transactions for additional cash consideration of C$9 million 5 million.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and stated below are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
IFRS carrying values Fair pre-acquisition value m m Other intangible assets 710 Property, plant and equipment 64 54 Trade and other receivables 66 Trade and other payables 24 24 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 2 6 Deferred tax liabilities 4 1 Net assets acquired 47 39 Cash consideration 39 137 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40.
Principal undertakings % Group holding Country of in ordinary shares 31 December 2007 incorporation formation and net assets Principal activity i Subsidiary undertakings Accord Energy Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Accord Energy Trading Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Bastrop Energy Partners LP USA 100 Power generation British Gas Services Limited England 100 Servicing and installation of gas heating systems British Gas Trading Limited England 100 Energy supply Centrica Barry Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Brigg Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Canada Limited Canada 100 Holding company and gas production Centrica Energa SL Spain 100 Energy supply Centrica Energie GmbH Germany 100 Wholesale energy trading Centrica Energy Operations Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KL Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Langage Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica PB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Renewable Energy Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company ii Centrica Resources Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Centrica Resources Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Upstream exploration Centrica Resources Norge AS Norway 100 Upstream exploration Centrica RPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica SHB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage Coastal Energy Limited England 85 Clean coal generation CPL Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply DER Development No.
10 Limited Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Marketing Inc USA 100 Wholesale energy trading Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy Partnership Canada 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Resources Partnership Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy Services LLC USA 100 Energy supply and home services Dyno Holdings Limited England 100 Home services Energy America LLC USA 100 Energy supply Frontera Generation LP USA 100 Power generation GB Gas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Glens of Foudland Windfarm Limited England 100 Power generation Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England 100 Gas production Oxxio BV Netherlands 100 Energy supply Paris Generation LP USA 100 Power generation Residential Services Group Inc USA 100 Holding company The Centrica Gas Production LP England 100 Gas production WTU Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply i Joint ventures Barrow Offshore Wind Limited England 50 Wind farm construction Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited Scotland 50 Power Generation Segebel SA Belgium 50 Holding company i All principal undertakings are indirectly held by the Company.
The information is only given for those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements.
ii During the year, the Group acquired Newfield Petroleum UK Limited and changed its name to Centrica Resources Petroleum UK Limited.
The assets of Centrica Resources Petroleum UK Limited were transferred to Centrica Resources Limited on 31 December 2007.
138 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Centrica plc Basis of audit opinion Independent Auditors report to the members We conducted our audit in accordance with International of Centrica plc Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Company Financial Statements have been prepared under the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company described as having been audited.
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements applied and adequately disclosed.
of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company assurance that the parent Company Financial Statements and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial Remuneration Report to be audited.
Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion: Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume at 31 December 2007: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the with the parent Company Financial Statements.
parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report Business Review and the Directors Report Governance is consistent  LLP with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 21 February 2008 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report, the Gas and Liquids Reserves, Five Year Record and Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
