Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Gas and Liquids Reserves unaudited The Groups estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the half year and full year reporting process and updated accordingly.
A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices and future costs.
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes available.
The Group discloses proven and probable gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery.
Reserves for Centrica operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers.
Reserves for non-operated fields are estimated by the operator, but are subject to internal review and challenge.
As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an audit of the reserves, including the application of the reserves definitions, is undertaken by an independent technical auditor.
Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy and procedure standard.
The Group has estimated proven and probable gas and liquids reserves in the UK and North America.
The principal fields in the UK are South Morecambe, North Morecambe, Statfjord and the Rough field associated with Centrica Storage.
The UK reserves estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and World Petroleum Congress.
An annual reserves audit has been carried out by ERC Energy Resource Consultants Ltd.
The principal fields in North America are Medicine Hat, Entice and Bashaw, located in the province of Alberta, Canada.
The North American reserves estimates have been evaluated in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook COGEH reserves definitions and are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the World Petroleum Congress.
The North American reserves evaluation has been carried out by Sproule Associates Limited.
North UK America Total Estimated net proven and probable reserves of gas billion cubic feet 1 January 2007 1,519 272 1,791 i Revisions of previous estimates 71 79 150 ii Purchases of reserves in place 61 61 247 Production 218 29 31 December 2007 1,433 322 1,755 North UK America Total Estimated net proven and probable reserves of liquids million barrels 1 January 2007 42 3 45 Revisions of previous estimates 4 4 Purchases of reserves in place 1 1 Production 6 6 31 December 2007 33 3 36 i Includes revised net reserves additions in the UK for Morecambe and Bains and reductions from Maria and the Brae Area fields and primarily additions to the Medicine Hat field in North America.
ii Reflects the 85% equity acquisition in the Grove Field.
Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
