ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 202 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GLOSSARY The following abbreviations and expressions have beta-blocker A medicine used to treat various Director A director of the Company.
the following meanings when used in this report: cardiovascular diseases that acts by blocking diuretic A drug that causes the increased receptors at nerve endings.
abbreviated new drug application ANDA production of urine.
A marketing approval application for a generic drug biomarker A characteristic that can be measured deoxyribonucleic acid DNA A molecule that carries submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration.
objectively and evaluated as an indicator of normal the key genetic instructions for living organisms.
biological, or pathogenic processes, or pharmacological ACE inhibitors A class of drugs that is used to dopamine partial agonists Drugs that mimic the responses to a therapeutic intervention.
treat hypertension and other cardiovascular effects of dopamine in the brain by stimulating diseases, which work by blocking the production biopharmaceuticals biologics A class of dopamine receptors.
of a hormone called angiotensin II.
medicines derived from proteins usually produced double-blind study A clinical study in which none naturally by living organisms in response to disease, acute coronary syndrome ACS An umbrella term of the participants subject, investigator nor research for example antibodies.
used to cover any group of clinical symptoms team, knows what treatment the subject is receiving compatible with acute myocardial ischaemia.
biosimilars Follow-on biopharmaceuticals that are until the end of the study.
biologically similar to an existing medicine.
adenosine diphosphate ADP A molecule that drug metabolism The biochemical modi cation or plays an important role in energy transfer in cells.
bipolar disorder Any of several mood disorders, degradation of drugs, usually through specialised usually characterised by alternating episodes of adjuvant An agent that modi es the effect of other enzymatic systems.
depression and mania or by episodes of depression agents for example drugs and vaccines while dyslipidaemia Abnormal concentrations of lipids or alternating with mild, non-psychotic excitement.
having few if any direct effects when given by itself: lipoproteins in the blood.
it operates like a catalyst in chemical reactions.
Board The Board of Directors of AstraZeneca PLC.
earnings per share EPS Pro t for the year after adjuvant therapy Treatment given as an adjunct to BRCA-mutated breast cancer A form of breast tax and minority interests, divided by the weighted another medical intervention, for example surgery.
cancer caused by the mutation of the gene that average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during normally acts to restrain the growth of cells in ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title the year.
EEA The European Economic Area.
bronchodilator A drug that causes the widening of ADS American Depositary Share representing one ef cacy The bene cial effect of a drug.
air passages of the lungs.
EFPIA The European Federation for Pharmaceutical CAD CAM Computer aided design computer aided adverse reaction An unwanted, negative Industries and Associations.
consequence associated with the use of a medicine.
EMEA The European Medicines Agency.
carbapenem A class of antibiotic drugs.
agonist A substance capable of binding to epidermal growth factor EGF receptor A protein a molecular target to trigger a response.
cardiovascular CV Relating to the heart and found on the surface of some cells and to which blood vessels.
allergic rhinitis An allergic reaction to airborne epidermal growth factor binds, causing the cells to substances such as pollen or dust.
CAT Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc.
It is found at abnormally high levels on the Alzheimers disease A group of disorders causing CEE Central and Eastern Europe.
surface of many types of cancer cells, so these cells deterioration of the brain, which affects ones memory may divide excessively in the presence of epidermal CER Constant exchange rates.
cerebrovascular disease Disease affecting the anaesthesia The total or partial loss of sensation, epidemiological Relating to the study of incidences, arteries in the brain or those that supply blood to especially in relation to pain.
distribution, control and prevention of diseases the brain.
analgesia The inability to feel pain whilst conscious.
chlorouorocarbons CFCs Gaseous compounds EU European Union.
angina Chest pain discomfort caused by lack of of carbon, chlorine, uorine and hydrogen.
oxygen to the heart muscles through reduced blood exceptional items Signi cantly large items that chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD ow in the coronary arteries.
are distinct in nature from items normally occurring Any disorder that persistently obstructs bronchial during ordinary business activities.
angiogenesis A physiological process in which new air ow, for example emphysema.
blood vessels grow from pre-existing vessels.
excipient An inactive substance that serves cognitive disorders Disorders with progressive or as the vehicle or medium for a drug or other angiotensin II A hormone that causes blood vessels chronic impairment of cognition or memory.
to narrow and thereby raises blood pressure.
colorectal cancer CRC Also called colon cancer extrapyramidal Relating to nerve pathways that link angiotensin converting enzyme ACE Converts or bowel cancer.
nerve nuclei in the surface of the cerebrum main mass a hormone called angiotensin to its activated form Company AstraZeneca PLC.
of the brain, basal ganglia deep within the brain called angiotensin II, enabling it to function.
congestive heart failure CHF Impairment of the and parts of the brain stem.
Angiotensin II acts by narrowing the diameter of the heart muscle leading to deterioration of the hearts blood vessels and thereby raises blood pressure.
finance income and expense Includes interest ability to function as a pump to circulate blood earned and payable, and similar items.
ankylosing spondylitis AS A degenerative throughout the body.
in ammatory disease affecting the spine and first good laboratory practice FGLP The point at connected person This is fide ned by sections 252 causing chronic pain.
which a compound undergoes the first pre-clinical 256 Companies Act 2006 and includes a persons study that is required for regulatory approval, which antagonist A substance capable of binding to a spouse, civil partner, child ren and step-child ren.
marks entry into the development pipeline.
molecular target to neutralise or counteract a reaction.
corticosteroid Any of the steroid hormones made first-line therapy Treatment given to a newly anti-androgen A drug that blocks the action of by the cortex outer layer of the adrenal gland.
diagnosed patient, who has therefore not yet testosterone on the prostate gland and is used in cost growth rates Percentage growth of a particular been treated.
the treatment of prostate cancer.
cost category over the comparable cost category first time in man The first time that an experimental anti-psychotic drug A drug for the treatment of for the previous year.
compound is administered to a human.
It implies that depression or mania.
the compound has passed ethical review bodies aromatase inhibitor A drug that inhibits the enzyme, and passed formal regulatory toxicology studies.
C-reactive protein CRP Produced by the liver.
aromatase, which is involved in the production of The level of CRP rises when there is body-wide Food and Drug Administration FDA Part of the the female sex hormone, oestrogen and therefore systemic in ammation.
US Department of Health and Human Services is used in the treatment of breast cancer.
Agency, which is the regulatory authority for all CRO A contract research organisation to which AstraZeneca AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
pharmaceuticals including biologics and vaccines pharmaceutical companies can sub-contract atherosclerosis The progressive narrowing or and medical devices in the US.
activities, for example clinical trial work.
hardening of the arteries linked to the build-up of free cash ow Represents net cash ows before Crohns disease A chronic in ammatory disorder lipids fats in the arterial walls and the formation nancing activities, and is calculated as net cash of the bowel.
in ow before nancing activities, adjusted for depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank, as depositary atherosclerotic plaque A build up of cholesterol acquisitions of businesses, movements in short under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the and fatty material in the walls of blood vessels as term investments and xed deposits and disposal ADRs are issued.
diabetes A metabolic disorder caused by atrial brillation AF Abnormal irregular heart rhythm.
gastrointestinal GI Relating to the stomach inadequate production or utilisation of insulin, and intestines.
beta-agonist A medicine that relaxes the muscles characterised by hyperglycaemia high glucose around the airways and thereby eases restricted gastrointestinal stromal tumours A rare tumour of blood sugar.
breathing during an asthma attack or in chronic the gastrointestinal tract.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 203 GLOSSARY CONTINUED gastro-oesophageal re ux disease GERD line extension A new formulation, indication or new chemical entity NCE A new, pharmacologicallyA condition where gastric juices, containing acid, presentation of a marketed product.
The term is used to travel back from the stomach into the oesophagus.
differentiate from line extensions and existing Lipid Another word for fat.
Lipids are one of the drug products.
generalised anxiety disorder GAD A neurotic main constituents of plant and animal cells.
illness characterised by chronic and persistent new drug application NDA An application to the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol LDL-C apprehension and tension.
US Food and Drug Administration for approval to Cholesterol that is carried in the blood by LDL, market a new medicine in the US.
GIA Group Internal Audit, our internal audit function.
sometimes referred to as bad cholesterol.
non-Hodgkins lymphoma Cancer arising from glioblastoma A type of primary brain tumour.
LSE London Stock Exchange plc.
a type of white blood cell called lymphocytes.
gross margin The margin, as a percentage, by which luteinising hormone-releasing hormone LHRH The disease can develop in organs related to the sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated by dividing A naturally occurring hormone that controls sex lymphatic system.
the difference between the two by the sales gure.
hormones in both men and women.
non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC A term Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
LHRH agonist A drug that mimics the effect of LHRH.
covering three distinct types of lung cancer.
head-to-head study A clinical trial in which two major depressive disorder MDD Depression non-steroidal anti-in ammatory drugs NSAIDs different treatments are directly compared with each where five or more symptoms of depression are Medicines that relieve pain and reduce in ammation other.
For drugs under development, this is often present for at least two weeks.
when used over a period of time.
a comparison with a marketed drug that is seen to Markman hearing A pre-trial hearing in the US normotensive Indicating a normal arterial be the gold standard.
in which judges hear from both parties as to the blood pressure.
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C appropriate meaning of relevant key words used NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Cholesterol carried in the blood by HDL back to the in the claims of a patent.
liver, sometimes referred to as good cholesterol.
odontology A science dealing with the teeth, marketing authorisation application MAA their structure, development and diseases.
high-throughput screening The process of using An application for authorisation to place medical automated tests to search quickly through large products on the market.
This is a speci c term for oncology The study of cancer.
numbers of substances for desired binding or the EU EEA markets.
operating costs Distribution costs: research and activity characteristics.
Medicaid A US health insurance programme development costs: and selling, general and HKAPI Hong Kong Association of the for individuals and families with low incomes and administrative costs.
It is jointly funded by the states and operating pro t Sales, less cost of sales, less federal government, and is managed by the states.
hormone A chemical messenger carried in the operating costs, plus operating income.
blood which produces a biological effect at its site Medical and Healthcare Products Regulatory Orange Book A publication of the US Food and of action.
Agency MHRA The UK regulatory authority, Drug Administration that lists the patents relating a government agency, for medicines and human papilloma virus HPV A group of viruses to drugs approved for marketing and sale in the US, medical devices.
that can cause cervical cancer.
including patents which protect active ingredients.
Medicare A US health insurance programme for US hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ A water pill thiazide Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of $0.25 each in citizens aged 65 or older, US citizens under age 65 diuretic that helps prevent the body from absorbing the capital of the Company.
with certain disabilities, and US citizens of all ages too much salt, which can cause uid retention.
osteoarthritis OA A joint disease which causes with permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or hydro uoroalkanes HFAs New propellants for degeneration of the cartilage that lines the joints.
Recently, Medicare began metered-dose inhalers that are more environmentally offering prescription drug coverage under Part D outcomes study A clinical trial usually large friendly than the current CFC-based inhalers.
of the Medicare Prescription Drug Bene t. assessing the effect of a drug in preventing or hyperglycaemic The condition of abnormally high delaying a speci c and important medical event metabolic syndrome A combination of levels of glucose in the blood.
for example the occurrence of a heart attack.
medical disorders that increase ones risk of hypertension High blood pressure.
over the counter OTC A term used for medicines that can be purchased without a prescription.
metastatic disease Disease that has spread from one part of the body to another.
palliative Treatment that has no curative intent ICH The International Conference on Harmonisation but is given to maintain quality of life and to of Technical Requirements for Registration of MHLW The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour relieve suffering.
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, which brings and Welfare.
together regulators and pharmaceutical industry parenteral Administered by injection for example minority interests Share of pro ts that belong experts from the three ICH regions Europe, the US intravenous, sub-cutaneous and intramuscular.
to non-AstraZeneca shareholders in partiallyand Japan to discuss scienti c and technical owned subsidiaries.
Parkinsons disease A neurological disorder aspects of drug registration.
caused by degeneration of or damage to nerve monoclonal antibodies MAbs An antibody IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
derived from a single clone of cells: all antibodies immunosuppressed A condition in which the derived from such a group of cells have the same perennial rhinitis A year round in ammatory response of the immune system is reduced.
Provider of global pharmaceutical monotherapy Treatment where only one agent Peripheral or cutaneous T-cell lymphoma market data.
PCTL CTCL Both are speci c types of nonHodgkins lymphoma.
inside information Precise, con dential, share-price moving annual total MAT A gure that represents sensitive information which relates to the Group.
the financial value of a variable for 12 months.
phage The abbreviation for bacteriophage, a virus that infects bacteria.
multiple sclerosis MS Progressive deterioration of the nervous system.
phage display A test to screen for protein interactions ischaemic heart disease A chronic disease caused using multiple gene sequences and bacteriophages.
by insuf cient blood supply to the heart muscles via multiple unit pellet system MUPS A formulation the coronary arteries.
in which each dose is subdivided into hundreds Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency or thousands of smaller units with modi ed PMDA The Japanese regulatory authority for KPI Key performance indicator.
medicines and medical devices, part of the MHLW.
large molecule A general term used to describe myocardial infarction MI A heart attack.
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of pharmaceutical R&D using biology and biological America PhRMA The principal US pharmaceutical methods and materials to discover and develop new myocardial ischaemia See ischaemic heart disease.
Biological molecules are large compared nasal polyp A growth attached to the lining of with chemical molecules.
pharmacogenomics A biotechnological science that the nose.
combines the techniques of medicine, pharmacology Lean Sigma A business improvement methodology.
National Council on Aging NCOA A US non-pro t and genomics and is concerned with developing drug leukotriene receptor antagonist A non-steroidal organisation that helps older people to, amongst therapies to compensate for genetic differences in asthma medication taken over the long term and other things, stay healthy.
patients which cause varied responses to a single shown to reduce use of inhalers etc.
and may NCI US National Cancer Institute.
also allow the asthmatic to reduce high doses nebulised corticosteroid A steroid drug administered pharmacokinetics The study of what the body does of inhaled steroids.
as tiny droplets in water vapour.
LIBID London Interbank Bid Rate.
neurology The scienti c study of the structure or pharmacology The study of how drugs affect LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate.
function of the nervous system and brain.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 204 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GLOSSARY CONTINUED pharmacovigilance The scienti c collection and psychiatry The study, prevention and triglycerides The major form of fat that comes from evaluation of information from healthcare providers and treatment of mental illnesses and emotional the food we eat as well as from being produced by patients relating to the adverse effects of medicines.
phase I The phase of clinical research where a new qui tam action in the US An action brought TSR Total shareholder returns.
drug or treatment is tested in small groups of people under a statute that allows a private person to Type 2 diabetes An illness caused by the body twenty to eighty to check that the drug can achieve sue for a penalty, part of which the government or being resistant to insulin.
appropriate concentrations in the body and, determine some speci ed public institution will receive.
UK The United Kingdom of Great Britain and a safe dosage range, and identify side effects.
phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
re ux oesophagitis A condition in which acidic uid is UK Combined Code Guidance that sets out phase II This phase of clinical research includes the regurgitated from the stomach into the oesophagus.
standards of good practice in corporate governance controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate respiratory Relating to or affecting breathing or the for the UK.
the effectiveness of the drug in patients with the organs used to breathe.
disease under study and to determine the common urology Relating to the structure, functioning and short-term side effects and risks associated with respiratory syncytial virus RSV A virus that disorders of the urinary tract.
Phase II studies are typically conducted attacks the mucous membranes of the human US The United States of America.
in a relatively small number of patients usually no respiratory tracts, including the nose, throat and US dollar, US$, USD or $ References to the more than several hundred.
phase III This phase of clinical research is performed RET-kinase A receptor-tyrosine kinase which is vascular endothelial cell growth factor VEGF to gather additional information about effectiveness normally involved in maturation of a variety of A growth factor which promotes the growth of new and safety of the drug, often in a comparative setting, tissues, including the nervous system and kidney.
to evaluate the overall bene t risk pro le of the drug.
It is sometimes mutated and has an abnormal Phase III studies usually include between several function in certain types of thyroid cancer.
World Health Organization WHO The United hundred and several thousand patients.
Nations specialised agency for health.
rheumatoid arthritis RA Joint in ammation in PIE Pharmaceuticals in the environment.
which the joints become painful, swollen, stiff, XR Extended release.
and in severe cases, deformed.
placebo In clinical trials, an inert substance identical Zollinger-Ellison syndrome A rare gastric in appearance to the substance being tested, also ribonucleic acid RNA A nucleic acid molecule acid disorder.
RNA plays a key role in many biological processes, including translating genetic platelets The blood cells that form blood clots.
information from DNA into proteins.
poly-ADP-ribose polymerase PARP An enzyme ribosome A large complex intracellular molecule critical to the repair of damaged cells and that synthesises protein.
ribosome display A technique used to create positron emission tomography PET A highly proteins that can bind a desired atom, ion or molecule.
specialised imaging technique that uses short-lived radioactive substances to produce three-dimensional ROW Rest of the world.
coloured images of those substances functioning schizophrenia A psychiatric condition in which within the body.
These images are called PET scans.
the patient suffers impairment of their perception post-marketing surveillance PMS The systematic of reality.
detection and evaluation of adverse reactions second-line therapy Treatment administered after occurring in association with pharmaceutical products the failure of, or in addition to, first-line therapy.
once these are available in the marketplace.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC US pre-clinical studies Studies conducted before governmental agency that regulates the securities a drug is tested in human subjects, and which industry stock market.
support and help establish boundaries for safe use SEK, kronor, krona References to Swedish currency.
of the drug in subsequent phase I studies.
sepsis A life-threatening condition resulting from pressurised metered dose inhaler pMDI uncontrolled severe infection.
An aerosol inhaler puffer device for delivering medicine directly into the lungs.
SG&A costs Selling, general and administrative costs.
primary care The medical care that a patient SHE Safety, health and the environment.
receives upon first contact with the healthcare small molecule A general term used to describe system, before referral elsewhere within the system.
pharmaceutical R&D using chemistry and chemical pro t before tax Operating pro t, plus finance methods and materials to discover and develop new income, less finance expense.
Chemical molecules are small compared with biological molecules.
prolactin The hormone that stimulates milk production after childbirth.
specialist care The medical care the patient receives after being referred by the primary care provider.
proof of concept Proof of concept provides clinical con rmation that an investigational product possesses SR Sustained release.
a desired pharmacological effect in patients with SSE Stockholm Stock Exchange.
This can be achieved after a statin A class of drugs that alter cholesterol levels in positive placebo-controlled study or dose-response the blood.
study using a validated surrogate variable or the final clinical outcome variable.
Proof of concept also sterling, GBP, pence or p References to the includes establishing a limited dose range to be currency of the UK.
used in the subsequent con rmatory studies.
supplemental new drug application sNDA proof of principle Proof of principle is achieved An application made to the US Food and Drug when an intended pharmacological effect results Administration to seek approval to market in an expected change in a relevant biomarker in a marketed drug for another indication.
a dose range, which does not cause any major systemic lupus erythematosus SLE A disease unwanted effects.
Proof of principle therefore provides of the immune system the system that prevents the first measurable evidence that an investigational and ghts infection.
product might work in humans.
Proof of principle target product pro le TPP Statement of the is normally demonstrated in a limited number of essential attributes required for a speci c drug to subjects with the disease of interest or in healthy be a clinically and commercially successful product, volunteers when a relevant model exists.
which can form the basis for commercial evaluation prophylaxis or prophylactic therapy A therapy or and guide Discovery and Development activities.
measure used to prevent disease.
thrombosis The formation of blood clots.
proton pump inhibitor PPI A medicine that toxicology The study of poisons.
reduces the production of acid in the stomach.
INTRODUCTION 01 International accounting transition 92 26 Employee costs and share option plans for employees 153 New accounting standards 92 AstraZeneca and our year in brief 01 27 Commitments and Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 92 Financial highlights 02 contingent liabilities 158 Results of operations summary Chairmans statement 04 28 Leases 174 analysis of year to 31 December 2006 93 29 Statutory and other information 175 Chief Executive Of cers review 05 Financial position, including cash ow and liquidity 2006 95 30 Share capital of parent company 176 Principal subsidiaries 177 DIRECTORS REPORT 08 REMUNERATION REPORT 98 Independent auditors Goals, strategy and report to the members of performance measurement 09 AstraZeneca PLC Company 178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 Business environment 13 Company balance sheet 179 Preparation of the Financial Business organisation 17 Accounting policies Company 180 Statements and Directors Board of Directors at responsibilities 116 Notes to the Financial 31 December 2007 18 Statements Company 181 Chief Executive Of cer, delegation of Directors responsibilities for, authority and Senior Executive Team 20 and report on, internal control 1 Fixed asset investments 181 Our resources, skills and capabilities 21 over financial reporting 116 2 Other debtors 181 3 Non-trade creditors 181 Medicines 21 Auditors reports on the Financial 4 Loans 181 Research and development 23 Statements and on internal control over financial reporting 5 Reserves 182 R&D governance and portfolio management 27 Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 117 6 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds 182 Development pipeline Independent auditors at 31 January 2008 28 7 Share capital 182 report to the members of Sales and marketing 31 8 Commitments and AstraZeneca PLC Group 117 contingent liabilities 183 Intellectual property 33 Consolidated income statement 118 9 Statutory and other information 183 Supply and manufacturing 33 Consolidated statement of People 35 Group financial record 184 recognised income and expense 118 Main facilities 37 Consolidated balance sheet 119 Corporate governance ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 186 Consolidated cash ow statement 120 and managing risk 38 Shareholder information 186 Accounting policies Group 121 Cardiovascular CV medicines 50 Risk 193 Notes to the Financial Gastrointestinal GI medicines 53 Corporate information 200 Statements Group 124 Neuroscience medicines 56 Cross-reference to Form 20-F 201 1 Operating pro t 124 Oncology medicines 59 Glossary 202 2 Restructuring and synergy costs 124 Respiratory and In ammation 3 Finance income and expense 125 Cautionary statement regarding R&I medicines 63 Statements of competitive position Trade marks 4 Taxation 125 forward-looking statements Trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies Except as otherwise stated, market information Infection medicines 66 The purpose of this Annual Report and Form 20-F 5 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 127 appear throughout this document in italics.
in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Information is to provide information to the members AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and the regarding the position of our business or products Other businesses 68 6 Segment information 128 of the Company.
In order, among other things, to relative to its or their competition is based upon AstraZeneca symbol are all trade marks of the utilise the safe harbour provisions of the US Private 7 Product sales information 130 Geographical review 69 AstraZeneca group of companies.
Trade marks published statistical data for the 12 months ended Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995 and the UK 8 Property, plant and equipment 131 of companies other than AstraZeneca appear with 30 September 2007, obtained from IMS Health, In the global community 73 Companies Act 2006, we are providing the following a or sign and include: Abraxane, a registered a leading supplier of statistical data to the cautionary statement: This Annual Report and 9 Goodwill 132 pharmaceutical industry.
Except as otherwise Environmental review 75 trade mark of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. : Aspirin, Form 20-F Information contains certain forward- 10 Intangible assets 133 a trade mark of Bayer AG: Avastin, a trade mark of stated, these market share and industry data from looking statements with respect to the operations, Financial review 77 Genentech, Inc. : BiTE, developed by Micromet, Inc. IMS Health have been derived by comparing our 11 Other investments 134 performance and financial condition of the Group.
and MedImmune, Inc. : Cubicin, a trade mark of sales revenue to competitors and total market Measuring performance 77 Although we believe our expectations are based 12 Inventories 134 sales revenues for that period.
For the purposes of Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. : CyDex Captisol, on reasonable assumptions, any forward-looking Business background and a trade mark of CyDex Pharmaceuticals Inc. : this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, 13 Trade and other receivables 135 statements, by their very nature, involve risks and major events affecting 2007 78 CytoFab, a trade mark of Protherics, Inc. : Herceptin, references to the world pharmaceutical market or uncertainties and may be in uenced by factors that 14 Cash and cash equivalents 135 a trade mark of Genentech, Inc. : Humira, a trade similar phrases are to 52 countries contained in IMS Results of operations summary could cause actual outcomes and results to be 15 Interest bearing loans Healths MIDAS Quantum database, which amount to mark of Abbott Biotechnology Ltd. : Lean Sigma, analysis of year to 31 December 2007 79 materially different from those predicted.
The forwardand borrowings 135 a trade mark of Smallpiece Enterprises Limited: approximately 95% in value of the countries audited looking statements re ect knowledge and information Financial position, including Prinivil, a trade mark of Merck & Co. Inc. : Seretide, by IMS Health.
available at the date of the preparation of this Annual 16 Financial risk management cash ow and liquidity 81 a trade mark of GlaxoSmithKline: Taxotere, a trade Report and Form 20-F Information and the Company Statements of growth rates, sales objectives and policies 136 mark of Aventis Pharma SA: TriCor, a trade mark of Acquisition of MedImmune 83 undertakes no obligation to update these forwardand market data 17 Financial instruments 138 Fournier Industrie et Sant: Zocor, a trade mark of Except as otherwise stated, growth rates and sales in looking statements.
We identify the forward-looking Restructuring and synergy costs 84 Merck & Co. Inc. : and Zyprexa, a trade mark of statements by using the words anticipates, believes, this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 18 Trade and other payables 142 Eli Lilly and Company.
Capitalisation and shareholder return 84 expects, intends and similar expressions in such are given at constant exchange rates CER to show 19 Pr ovisions for liabilities and charges 142 statements.
Important factors that could cause actual Use of terms underlying performance by excluding the effects of Future prospects 84 20 Statement of changes in equity 143 exchange rate movements.
Market data are given results to differ materially from those contained in In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, Financial risk management policies 85 forward-looking statements, certain of which are unless the context otherwise requires, AstraZeneca, in actual US dollars.
21 Reserves 144 Critical accounting policies beyond our control, include, among other things, the Group, we, us and our refer to AstraZeneca AstraZeneca websites 22 Minority interests 145 those factors identi ed in the section Risk on PLC and its consolidated entities.
and estimates 86 Information on or accessible through our pages 193 to 199 of this document.
Nothing in 23 Dividends to shareholders 145 Statements of dates websites, including astrazeneca.
com, Off-balance sheet transactions, this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information .
com Except as otherwise stated, references to days and or contingent liabilities and commitments 90 24 Acquisitions of business operations 145 should be construed as a pro t forecast.
Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Limited.
months in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and cambridgeantibody.
com, does not form part Post-employment bene ts 92 25 Post-retirement bene ts 148 AstraZeneca PLC 2008 are references to days and or months in 2007. of this document.
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Limited.
ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND CONTACT INFORMATION FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 REGISTERED OFFICE INVESTOR RELATIONS REGISTRAR AND US DEPOSITARY AND CORPORATE CONTACTS TRANSFER OFFICE JPMorgan Chase Bank HEADQUARTERS ADDRESS UK: as above or e-mail Equiniti Limited JPMorgan Service Center AstraZeneca PLC IR@astrazeneca.
com Aspect House PO Box 3408 15 Stanhope Gate Sweden: Spencer Road South Hackensack London W1K 1LN AstraZeneca AB Lancing NJ 07606-3408 UK SE-151 85 Sdertlje West Sussex US Tel: 44 0 20 7304 5000 Sweden BN99 6DA Tel toll free in the US : Fax: 44 0 20 7304 5151 Tel: 46 0 8 553 260 00 UK 888 697 8018 Fax: 46 0 8 553 290 00 Tel freephone in the UK : Tel outside the US : or e-mail 0800 389 1580 1 201 680 6630 IR@astrazeneca.
com Tel outside the UK : US: 44 0 121 415 7033 Investor Relations AstraZeneca SWEDISH SECURITIES ASTRAZENECA.
COM Pharmaceuticals LP REGISTRATION CENTRE 1800 Concord Pike VPC AB PO Box 15437 PO Box 7822 Wilmington SE-103 97 Stockholm fide 19850-5437 Sweden US Tel: 46 0 8 402 9000 Tel: 1 302 886 3000 Fax: 1 302 886 2972 This Annual Report and Form 20-F Information is also available online at astrazeneca.
