FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 158 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHARE OPTION PLANS FOR EMPLOYEES CONTINUED 2007 2006 2005 Average share price pence 2599 3020 2384 Weighted average exercise price pence AstraZeneca Share Option Plan 2737 2977 2133 SAYE schemes 2164 3001 2257 Weighted average fair value of options granted in the period pence AstraZeneca Share Option Plan 682 857 619 SAYE schemes 616 943 700 Expected volatility % 25.0 30.0 30.0 Dividend yield % 2.6 2.3 2.3 Risk-free interest rate % 4.8 4.3 4.3 Expected lives: AstraZeneca Share Option Plan years 6.0 6.0 6.0 Expected lives: SAYE schemes years 4.3 4.1 3.9 The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
The charge for share-based payments in respect of share options is $124m 2006 $125m, 2005 $128m which is comprised entirely of equity-settled transactions.
27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2007 2006 2005 $m $m $m Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 571 383 220 Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with deferred consideration obligations, the amounts of which are variable depending upon particular milestone achievements.
Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sales levels achieved.
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
Arrangements with Merck Introduction In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture was restructured the Restructuring.
Under the agreements relating to the Restructuring the Agreements, a US limited partnership was formed, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint ventures business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights provide Merck with safeguards over the activities of the partnership and place limitations on AstraZenecas commercial freedom to operate.
The Agreements provide for: Annual contingent payments.
A payment to Merck in the event of a business combination between Astra and a third party in order for Merck to relinquish certain claims to that third partys products.
Termination arrangements which, if and when triggered, cause Merck to relinquish its interests in AstraZenecas products and activities.
These elements are discussed in further detail below together with a summary of their accounting treatments.
Annual contingent payments AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement products.
As a result of the merger of Astra and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m.
AstraZenecas payments have exceeded the minimum level in all years.
Payment in the event of a business combination On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time Lump Sum Payment of $809m was triggered.
As a result of this payment, Merck relinquished any claims it may have had to Zeneca products.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 159 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Termination arrangements The Agreements provided for arrangements and payments under which, subject to the exercise of certain options, the rights and interests in AstraZenecas activities and products held by Merck immediately prior to the merger would be terminated, including details of: The Advance Payment.
The First Option and True-Up.
Advance Payment The merger between Astra and Zeneca triggered the first step in the termination arrangements.
Merck relinquished all rights, including contingent payments on future sales, to potential Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger.
As a result, AstraZeneca now has rights to such products and is relieved of potential obligations to Merck and restrictions in respect of those products including annual contingent payments, affording AstraZeneca substantial freedom to exploit the products as it sees fit.
At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment was paid.
It was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to the date of merger at a rate of 13% per annum and amounted to $967m.
It is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed under First Option and True-Up below.
Partial Retirement In March 2008, there will be a partial retirement of Mercks limited partnership interest by payment to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m.
See General below for the current estimate of the amount of this payment.
Upon the Partial Retirement, Mercks rights in respect of certain of the agreement products will end.
The products covered by the Partial Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort.
First Option and True-Up In 2008, a calculation will be made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of the Appraised Value to Merck in March 2008 will take place only if Merck exercises the First Option.
Should Merck not exercise this option in 2008, AstraZeneca may exercise it in 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
Contingent payments will continue from 2008 to 2010 if AstraZeneca exercises in 2010.
Upon exercise of the First Option, Merck will relinquish its rights over the agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Nexium and Prilosec.
If neither Merck nor AstraZeneca exercises the option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue as will AstraZenecas other obligations and restrictions in respect of these products and the Appraised Value will not be paid.
Products covered by the First Option include Atacand, Plendil, Entocort and certain compounds still in development.
In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of the Advance Payment.
The true-up amount will be based on a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6bn, plus other defined amounts totalling $912m.
It is then reduced by the Appraised Value whether paid or not, the Partial Retirement and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn to determine the true-up amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 irrespective of whether the First Option is exercised, and this could result in a further payment by AstraZeneca to Merck or, more likely, a payment by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Should Merck exercise the First Option in 2008, AstraZeneca will make payments in respect of the Partial Retirement, the First Option and the true-up totalling a minimum of $4.7bn.
If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option in 2010, the combined effect of the amounts paid to Merck in 2008 and 2010 will total the same amount.
Loan Note Receivable Included in the assets and liabilities covered by the Restructuring is a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of $1.4bn.
In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Retirement and the true-up, Merck will settle the loan note receivable by paying AstraZeneca $1.4bn.
Second Option A Second Option exists whereby AstraZeneca has the option to repurchase Mercks interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca two years after the exercise of the First Option, whether the First Option is exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise of the Second Option by AstraZeneca at a later date is also provided for in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, that the First Option has been exercised.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the net present value of the future annual contingent payments on Prilosec and Nexium as determined at the time of exercise.
If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will then have relinquished all its interests in the partnership and the agreement products including rights to contingent payments.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 160 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED General The precise timing and amount of settlements with Merck under the Partial Retirement, the First Option and the true-up cannot be determined at this time.
For example, the payment of the First Option is contingent upon Merck or AstraZeneca exercising the First Option.
Similarly, the timing and amount of the Second Option cannot be determined at this time.
The amount of the true-up, the Partial Retirement and the Appraised Value, have been estimated, and are subject to finalisation.
However, the total payments in respect of the Partial Retirement, the true-up and the First Option will not exceed the minimum of $4.7bn referred to above should the First Option be exercised.
We estimate the amount of the Partial Retirement will be approximately $4.3bn, the amount of the Appraised Value will be approximately $0.6bn and the amount of the true-up a payment from Merck to AstraZeneca will be approximately $0.2bn.
If Merck exercises the First Option in 2008, the net minimum payment to be made to Merck, being the combined payments of $4.7bn less the repayment of the loan note of $1.4bn, will be $3.3bn.
In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities to be acquired.
At that time, the loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and on the balance sheet because it was estimated that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value of the rights to be acquired under the Partial Retirement, true-up and First Option.
AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that accrue under all the termination arrangements arise: Currently, from the substantial freedom over products acquired or discovered post-merger.
On occurrence of each stage of such arrangements, from enhanced contributions from, and substantial freedom over, those products that have already been launched for example, Pulmicort, Symbicort, Rhinocort and Atacand, and those that are in development.
Economic benefits include relief from contingent payments, anticipated cost savings from cessation of manufacturing arrangements and other cost efficiencies, together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate.
Accounting treatments Annual contingent payments The annual contingent payments on agreement products are expensed as incurred.
Payment in the event of a business combination The Lump Sum Payment was expensed at the point of merger since it caused no incremental benefits over the prior years aggregate Astra and Zeneca performance to accrue to the merged AstraZeneca entity.
Termination arrangements AstraZeneca considers that the termination arrangements described above represent the acquisition, in stages, of Mercks interests in the partnership and agreement products including Mercks rights to contingent payments and depend, in part, on the exercise of the First and Second Options.
The effects will only be reflected in the Financial Statements as these stages are reached.
If and when all such payments are made, AstraZeneca will have unencumbered discretion in its operations in the US market.
The Advance Payment has been accounted for as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years.
This approach reflects the fact that, under the Agreements, AstraZeneca has acquired rights relieving it of potential obligations and restrictions in respect of Astra products with no existing or pending patents at the time of merger.
Although these rights apply in perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 years has been chosen to reflect the typical timescale of development and marketing of a product.
The net payment expected to be made $2.6bn, or $3.3bn if Merck exercises the First Option will be capitalised as intangible assets representing acquired product rights.
Ongoing monitoring of the projected payments to Merck and the value to AstraZeneca of the related rights takes full account of changing business circumstances and the range of possible outcomes to ensure that the payments to be made to Merck are covered by the economic benefits expected to be realised, including those attributable to the strategic benefits of being relieved from some or all of the restrictions of the partnership with Merck.
Should the monitoring reveal that these payments exceed the economic benefits expected to be realised, a provision for an onerous contract would be recognised.
Environmental costs and liabilities The Groups expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for implementing internal systems and programmes and meeting legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying out the Groups research, manufacturing and commercial operations and are not separated from overall operating and development costs.
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2005, 2006 or 2007.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination.
In particular, AstraZeneca and or its affiliates have environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 161 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In the US, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Zeneca Inc. and or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties PRPs or defendants at approximately 19 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
Similarly, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Stauffer Management Company LLC SMC, which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 28 sites where SMC is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
In Europe and other parts of the world outside the US, AstraZeneca is likely to incur costs at one currently owned site and has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 45 other sites.
These environmental liabilities arise from legacy operations that are not part of the Groups current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where a present obligation exists, it is probable that such costs will be incurred, and they can be estimated reliably.
With respect to such estimated future costs, there were provisions at 31 December 2007 in the aggregate of $111m, which mainly relate to the US.
These provisions do not include possible additional costs that are not currently probable.
Where we are jointly liable or otherwise have cost sharing agreements with third parties we reflect only our share of the obligation.
Where the liability is insured in part or in whole by insurance or other arrangements for reimbursement, an asset is recognised to the extent that this recovery is virtually certain.
It is possible that the Company, or its affiliates, could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions.
The extent of such possible, additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 1 the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted in the future: 2 whether the Company or any of its affiliates has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims: 3 the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known: 4 the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties: and 5 the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take.
Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss for future environmental investigation, remediation and remedial operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions could be, in the aggregate, in the order of $25-40m of which $15-30m relates to the US.
Legal proceedings AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including litigation relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, infringement of intellectual property rights, the validity of certain patents, anti-trust, securities laws and governmental investigations.
The more significant matters are discussed below.
Most of the claims involve highly complex issues.
Often, these issues are subject to substantial uncertainties and therefore the probability of a loss, if any, being sustained and an estimate of the amount of any loss are difficult to ascertain.
Consequently, for a majority of these claims, it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, AstraZeneca discloses information with respect to the nature and facts of the case.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, other than those which have been disposed of, we are unable to make estimates of the possible loss or range of possible losses at this stage, other than where noted in the case of the European Commission fine and the proposed settlement with class 1 plaintiffs in the Average Wholesale Price litigation.
We also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of factors including: the stage of the proceedings in many cases trial dates have not been set and the overall length and extent of pre-trial discovery: the entitlement of the parties to an action to appeal a decision: clarity as to theories of liability: damages and governing law: uncertainties in timing of litigation: and the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings or investigations referred to in this Note 27 to the Financial Statements, we do not expect them to have a materially adverse effect on our financial position.
In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, or where quantifiable fines and penalties have been assessed or where a loss is probable and we are able to make a reasonable estimate of the loss, we indicate the loss absorbed or the amount of the provision accrued which includes all related legal costs.
No provisions have been made for any such claims and legal costs incurred discussed below other than the European Commission fine which has been paid and the settlement with certain parties under the Average Wholesale Price litigation.
Where it is considered that the Group is more likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved in defending the claim are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
Where it is considered that the Group has a valid contract which provides the right to reimbursement from insurance or otherwise of legal costs and or all or part of any loss incurred or for which a provision has been established, the best estimate of the amount expected to be received is recognised as an asset.
Assessments as to whether or not to recognise provisions or assets and of the amounts concerned usually involve a series of complex judgements about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions.
AstraZeneca believes that the provisions recorded are adequate based on currently available information and that the insurance recoveries recorded will be received.
However, given the inherent uncertainties involved in assessing the outcomes of these cases and in estimating the amount of the potential losses and the associated insurance recoveries, we could in future periods incur judgments or insurance settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results in any particular period.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Intellectual property claims include challenges to the Groups patents on various products or processes and assertions of non-infringement of patents.
A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent protection on the related product.
The consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of the product which could materially affect the future results of the Group.
The lawsuits pending against companies that have filed abbreviated new drug applications ANDAs in the US, seeking to market generic forms of products sold by the Group prior to the expiry of the applicable patents covering these products typically include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these patents.
In the event that the Group is not successful in these actions or the statutory 30-month stay expires before a ruling is obtained, the companies involved will also have the ability, subject to US Food and Drug Administration FDA approval, to introduce generic versions of the product concerned.
30-month stays will not prevent the FDA from approving ANDAs for Nexium, Pulmicort Respules and Seroquel in the year ending 31 December 2008.
Abraxane paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension albumin-bound In July 2006, Elan Pharma International Limited Elan filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Abraxis BioScience, Inc. Abraxis.
Elan essentially alleges that Abraxis infringes two US patents in connection with the marketing, use and sale of Abraxane.
During 2007, the Court held a Markman hearing and issued an opinion on claims construction.
Expert and fact discovery are ongoing.
No trial date has been set.
AstraZeneca is not named as a party in the lawsuit.
AstraZeneca is party to an agreement with Abraxis to co-promote Abraxane in the US.
Atacand candesartan cilexetil In April 2007, AstraZeneca new drug application NDA holder and Takeda patent holder received notice from Sandoz Inc. Sandoz that Sandoz had filed an ANDA with the FDA, seeking approval to market a generic version of Atacand candesartan cilexetil in the 4, 8, 16 and 32mg doses, prior to the expiration of US Patent No.
5534534 the 534 patent, which expires in July 2013.
The notification claims that the Sandoz product does not infringe the 534 patent.
Sandoz did not challenge the compound patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Atacand, the later of which expires in June 2012.
As a result, Sandoz cannot market candesartan cilexetil until the end of the exclusivity period afforded by these patents.
AstraZeneca and Takeda have decided not to bring an action for patent infringement at this time.
Crestor rosuvastatin From 2004 to present, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and or AstraZeneca LP in the US were served with 15 individual lawsuits in various US jurisdictions, alleging injury in association with the use of Crestor.
11 of the cases were dismissed in early stages, and another was dismissed after the court granted AstraZenecas motion for summary judgment in June 2007.
These decisions were not appealed by the plaintiffs.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend the remaining cases, all of which are still in preliminary stages.
In addition, a motion to institute a class action was filed in Quebec, Canada against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Canada Inc. in which the petitioners alleged injury as a result of the use of Crestor.
In March 2007, the Court granted the named plaintiffs request to discontinue this action.
AstraZeneca lists three patents in the FDA Orange Book: No.
RE37,314 covering the active ingredient the 314 patent : No.
6,316,460 covering formulations the 460 patent : and No.
6,858,618 covering medical use the 618 patent.
The 314 patent expires in January 2016, the 460 patent expires in August 2020 and the 618 patent expires in December 2021.
Between 30 October 2007 and 6 December 2007, AstraZeneca received Paragraph IV certification notice-letters from Apotex, Inc. Apotex : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Aurobindo : Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Cobalt Laboratories Inc. together Cobalt : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc. USA Glenmark : Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mylan : Par Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Par : Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz : Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited Sun : and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc Teva.
Each entity notified AstraZeneca that it had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market Crestor 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets prior to the expiration of one or more of AstraZenecas three FDA Orange Book-listed patents.
The notice-letters notified AstraZeneca that each respective ANDA contained a Paragraph IV certification alleging non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability of one or more of AstraZenecas three patents.
In December 2007, in response to notice-letters from seven of the nine manufacturers, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca UK Limited, IPR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and AstraZenecas licensor, Shionogi Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha Shionogi, filed separate lawsuits in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, against Apotex, Aurobindo, Cobalt, Mylan, Par, Sandoz and Sun for infringement of the patent covering rosuvastatin calcium, the active ingredient in Crestor tablets.
AstraZeneca did not file patent infringement actions against Teva and Glenmark because they did not seek approval to market products before the 2016 expiration date of the patent covering the active ingredient.
In addition to filing actions in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, for procedural reasons, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca UK Limited, IPR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Shionogi filed three duplicate patent infringement actions against Mylan, Aurobindo and Cobalt respectively in US District Courts in West Virginia, New Jersey and Florida.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Crestor.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 163 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Exanta ximelagatran Four putative and essentially similar securities class actions were filed in the US against AstraZeneca PLC, Hkan Mogren who currently serves as a Director of AstraZeneca PLC, Sir Tom McKillop, Jonathan Symonds and Percy Barnevik who are former Directors of AstraZeneca PLC between January and March 2005.
These actions were subsequently consolidated into a single action pending in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Consolidated Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made materially false and misleading statements regarding Exanta clinical trials and the status of the Exanta new drug application in the US.
The plaintiffs purport to assert claims on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the period April 2003 to September 2004 under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5.
The defendants deny the allegations made in the lawsuit and will vigorously defend the action.
In 2006 they filed a motion to dismiss the action, and that motion is pending before the Court.
Iressa gefitinib During 2004, 2005 and 2006, six claims were filed against AstraZeneca KK in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts.
In five of the claims, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of interstitial lung disease ILD in a Japanese patient.
In the sixth claim, it is alleged that Iressa caused a non-fatal incidence of ILD.
AstraZeneca KK, following consultation with external legal advisers, believes the claims are without merit and is defending all the cases.
ILD is a known complication of lung disease, including advanced lung cancer, regardless of treatment.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole In 2001, AstraZeneca filed a suit in the US against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Andrx for infringement of a patent number 6,013,281 directed to a process for making an omeprazole formulation the 281 patent.
Andrx filed counterclaims of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability for inequitable conduct during prosecution of the 281 patent.
Andrx also asserted that in addition to the 281 patent, two other formulation patents, numbered 4,786,505 and 4,853,230 the 505 and 230 patents were unenforceable for alleged litigation misconduct by AstraZeneca.
Both parties sought attorneys fees.
In May 2004, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the 281 patent was infringed, but also ruled that the 281 patent was invalid.
The US District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Andrxs litigation misconduct and other counterclaims and affirmative defences, leaving intact the Courts October 2002 decision finding the 230 and 505 patents not invalid and infringed by Andrx.
The Courts October 2002 decision was affirmed in all respects on appeal in December 2003.
The Court entered final judgment regarding the 281 patent in July 2004, after determining to stay the attorneys fees claims pending any appeals.
Andrx appealed the judgment and AstraZeneca crossappealed.
The appeal was argued to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in August 2006.
In April 2007, the Federal Circuit affirmed the lower court decision that the asserted claims of the 281 patent are invalid.
The Federal Circuit also concluded that AstraZenecas 505 and 230 formulation patents remained enforceable.
As a result of Andrxs infringement of the 505 and 230 patents, AstraZeneca was the prevailing party against Andrx in the lower court.
AstraZeneca is pursuing appropriate relief, including damages.
During 2000 and 2001, AstraZeneca had filed suits against Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d. d. and Lek Services USA, Inc. together Lek, Impax Laboratories Inc. Impax, Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. Eon, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mylan, Apotex Corp, Apotex, Inc. together Apotex, Torpharm, Inc. Torpharm and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. IVAX.
These suits followed the filing of ANDAs by these companies with the FDA concerning the companies intention to market generic omeprazole products in the US.
The basis for the proceedings is that the actions of all the companies infringe the 505 and 230 formulation patents relating to omeprazole.
The cases are proceeding under the US Hatch-Waxman legislation.
The case against IVAX was dismissed without prejudice shortly after it was filed, after IVAX withdrew its application to market generic omeprazole.
During 2003, after Mylan commenced commercial sale of its product, AstraZeneca filed suit against Laboratorios Esteve, SA and Esteve Quimica, SA together Esteve, manufacturers of the omeprazole product to be distributed in the US by Mylan.
In 2003 and 2004, Lek, Apotex and Impax all began commercial sales of their generic omeprazole products.
In July 2004, Lek filed a motion for summary judgment of non-infringement.
In January 2005, AstraZeneca filed suit against Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. which are marketing and selling Impaxs omeprazole products.
The Teva case was stayed in June 2005 until liability issues in the Impax action are resolved.
AstraZeneca made claims for damages against each of the selling defendants.
Anti-trust and non-infringement counterclaims were filed by Andrx, Apotex Torpharm, Impax, Eon and Lek.
All defendants except Lek have also raised invalidity and unenforceability counterclaims.
The anti-trust counterclaims, as well as AstraZenecas claims for damages, have been stayed pending resolution of the patent liability issues.
The cases were consolidated for discovery before, or are directly assigned to, Judge Jones in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
All discovery in these cases was completed in February 2005.
Briefing on the summary judgment motion filed by Lek and 14 additional motions for summary judgment were completed in July 2005.
All of the defendants motions for summary judgment were denied in January 2006.
In February 2006, the Eon suit was dismissed after it announced it would not commence sales until after the 505 and 230 patents expired.
In July 2005, AstraZeneca filed suit against Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited, Ranbaxy, Inc. and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. together Ranbaxy for infringement of the 505 and 230 formulation patents.
The Ranbaxy case was consolidated with the other omeprazole patent cases for pre-trial purposes.
In March 2006, the Ranbaxy case was dismissed when it announced it would not commence sales until after the 505 and 230 patents expired.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 164 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In January 2006, AstraZeneca withdrew its claims for damages against Impax, and as a result the Court struck Impaxs jury demand.
Impax appealed this decision on an interlocutory basis to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which denied the appeal, and then to the US Supreme Court, which also denied the appeal.
From April to June 2006, Judge Jones conducted a consolidated bench trial on patent liability issues involving the remaining defendants, Mylan Esteve, Lek, Apotex and Impax.
Post-trial briefing was completed in July 2006.
In May 2007, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York upheld both formulation patents covering Prilosec omeprazole, a ruling consistent with the previously disclosed decision in the first wave case in October 2002.
The Court found that the generic omeprazole formulations of Impax and Apotex infringed both patents in suit.
AstraZeneca is seeking appropriate relief, including damages.
The Court also found that the generic omeprazole products sold by Lek and Mylan Esteve did not infringe.
Lek and Mylan Esteve are pursuing costs, attorneys fees and anti-trust counterclaims.
AstraZeneca has appealed the Mylan Esteve decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In April 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from Dexcel Pharma Technologies, Ltd Dexcel that Dexcel had submitted a new drug application seeking FDA approval to market a 20mg omeprazole tablet for the over-the-counter OTC market.
Dexcel seeks approval to market a generic omeprazole OTC product before the expiration of the patents listed in the FDA Orange Book in reference to AstraZenecas Prilosec product and the Prilosec OTC that is marketed by The Procter & Gamble Co. Procter & Gamble.
In May 2006, AstraZeneca filed suit in the US District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Eastern District of Virginia charging Dexcel with infringement of the 505 and 230 patents and US Patent No.
In September 2007, the parties entered into a settlement agreement, and the cases have been dismissed in their entirety.
The terms of the settlement are confidential and are not material to AstraZeneca.
In June 2007, AstraZeneca received a notice from Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Ltd and from Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Inc. together, Dr Reddys that Dr. Reddys had submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a 20mg delayed release omeprazole magnesium capsule for the OTC market.
Dr. Reddys seeks approval to market a generic omeprazole OTC product before the expiration of the patents listed in the FDA Orange Book in reference to the Prilosec OTC product that is marketed by Procter & Gamble.
In July 2007, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against Dr. Reddys in response to Dr. Reddys Paragraph IV certifications regarding Prilosec OTC.
In June and July 2004, AstraZeneca applied in France for injunctions based on its omeprazole formulation patent against six companies for marketing generic omeprazole.
In August 2004, the applications were rejected at first instance.
AstraZeneca appealed this decision and in March 2005 the applications were rejected on appeal.
In May 2004, AstraZeneca also started legal proceedings against the same companies for infringement of its omeprazole formulation patent in France.
These proceedings have been consolidated with a case challenging the validity of the patent, brought by one of the companies against AstraZeneca.
No date has yet been set for a hearing.
In 2001, AstraZeneca was granted an interlocutory injunction based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patents against the generic company A S Gea Farmaceutiske Fabrik now Hexal A S. The parties have now settled this case.
An interlocutory injunction against Biochemie Novartis Healthcare A S was granted in Denmark during 2003, based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
The parties have now settled this case.
In December 2004, an interlocutory injunction against Nomeco A S, a Danish distributor of a generic omeprazole product from ratiopharm, was granted in Denmark based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
The case was heard on appeal in November and December 2005 and, in February 2006, the High Court repealed the interlocutory injunction.
During 2003 and 2004, AstraZeneca was denied interlocutory injunctions based on certain of its omeprazole patents against Novartis Sverige AB and ratiopharm AB in Sweden and Novartis Finland Oy and ratiopharm Oy in Finland.
In 2002 and 2003, Novartis Sverige AB, ratiopharm AB and Arrow Lkemedel AB initiated cases to invalidate AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
AstraZeneca initiated infringement cases against Novartis Sverige AB and ratiopharm AB in Sweden, in 2003.
The parties have now settled all of these cases.
In Finland, the separate infringement proceedings against ratiopharm Oy and Novartis Finland Oy based on infringement of AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent had been stayed in 2005, as Novartis Finland Oy had initiated an invalidation action against the formulation patent.
In May 2006, AstraZeneca and Novartis Finland Oy settled their disputes, as a result of which the invalidation action against the formulation patent and the infringement action against Novartis Finland Oy were withdrawn.
During the autumn of 2006, the infringement action against ratiopharm Oy, which had been stayed pending the outcome of the invalidation action by Novartis Finland Oy, was resumed.
The terms of the settlement are confidential and are not material to AstraZeneca Also during 2003, the District Court in Norway found that the generic omeprazole product marketed by ratiopharm AB did not infringe AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
This judgment was confirmed by the Norwegian Appeal Court in October 2005.
In January 2006, the Supreme Court in Norway denied AstraZeneca leave to appeal.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 165 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED AstraZeneca continues to be involved in proceedings in Canada involving various generics and patents, including under the Patented Medicines Notice of Compliance Regulations, relating to omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets.
Apotex launched a generic omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004.
Following this launch, AstraZeneca commenced judicial review proceedings seeking to quash Apotexs Notice of Compliance marketing approval and AstraZeneca sued Apotex in July 2004 alleging infringement of its formulation patents by Apotexs omeprazole capsules.
In May 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal quashed Apotexs Notice of Compliance, overruling the first instance decision in September 2004, which went against AstraZeneca.
In June 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal granted Apotexs motion for a stay of the Courts decision to quash the Notice of Compliance, pending an application by Apotex for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
The Supreme Court of Canada granted Apotex leave to appeal and also continued the stay granted by the Federal Court of Appeal, thereby allowing Apotex to continue selling its omeprazole capsules pending a decision by the Supreme Court on Apotexs appeal.
The appeal was heard in May 2006 and allowed in November 2006, with the result that Apotex can continue to sell omeprazole capsules pending the outcome of the patent infringement action.
In February 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal upheld a lower court decision that prohibited Apotex from obtaining a Notice of Compliance for omeprazole magnesium tablets until the expiry of a relevant formulation patent in December 2008.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. was served with a claim in the Federal Court of Canada for payment of an undetermined sum based on damages allegedly suffered by Apotex due to the delay from January 2002 to January 2004 in the issuance to Apotex of a Notice of Compliance in Canada for its 20mg omeprazole capsule product.
AstraZeneca believes the claim is without merit and intends to defend it and to pursue its already pending patent infringement action against Apotex vigorously.
AstraZeneca initiated proceedings in the Federal Court of Canada against Novopharm Limited in connection with certain patents related to omeprazole magnesium tablets, on the basis that Novopharm was seeking a Notice of Compliance in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Losec tablets.
Two of these proceedings remain pending.
AstraZeneca initiated proceedings in the Federal Court of Canada against Sandoz Canada Inc. Sandoz in connection with certain patents related to omeprazole capsules, on the basis that Sandoz was seeking a Notice of Compliance in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Losec capsules.
The proceedings were discontinued in September 2007 and Sandoz has subsequently started marketing and selling its omeprazole capsule product in Canada.
In January 2007, AstraZeneca discontinued long pending proceedings against Reddy-Cheminor Inc. in respect of patents relating to omeprazole capsules, following Reddy-Cheminors withdrawal of its allegations.
European Commission investigation In February 2000, the European Commission commenced an investigation relating to certain omeprazole intellectual property rights, and associated regulatory and patent infringement litigation.
The investigation is pursuant to Article 82 of the EC Treaty, which prohibits an abuse of a dominant position.
The investigation was precipitated by a complaint by a party to a number of patent and other proceedings involving AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated with the Commission.
In July 2003, the Commission served a Statement of Objections on AstraZeneca, referring to alleged infringements regarding the obtaining of supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole in certain European countries: and regarding AstraZenecas replacement of omeprazole capsules by omeprazole MUPS tablets and withdrawal of capsule marketing authorisations in three European countries.
AstraZeneca replied fully to the Commission, explaining why its actions were, in AstraZenecas view, lawful.
An oral hearing took place in February 2004.
In June 2005, the Commission notified AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca AB of its Decision to impose fines totalling 60m on the companies for infringement of European competition law Article 82 of the EC Treaty and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement.
The Commission alleges that the companies abused their dominant positions in the periods between 1993 and 2000 by making a pattern of misleading representations before the patent offices and or courts in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, The Netherlands, Norway and the UK in regard to obtaining supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole: and by requesting the surrender of market authorisations for omeprazole capsules in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, combined with withdrawal from these countries of omeprazole capsules and the launch of omeprazole MUPS tablets.
AstraZeneca does not accept the Commissions Decision and has appealed it to the Court of First Instance.
AstraZeneca denies that it had a dominant position or that it was engaged in the behaviours as characterised by the Commission.
In the meantime, the fine was fully provided for in the half year results in 2005 through a charge to operating profit of $75m.
Because it is further alleged by the Commission that these activities had the effect of hindering the entry of the generic version of Losec and parallel trade, it is possible that third parties could seek damages for alleged losses arising from this matter.
Any such claims would be vigorously resisted.
Nexium esomeprazole magnesium Sales and marketing practices AstraZeneca entities have been sued in various state and federal courts in the US in purported representative class actions involving the marketing of Nexium esomeprazole magnesium.
These actions generally allege that AstraZenecas promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians and consumers is unfair, unlawful and deceptive conduct, particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with Prilosec.
They also allege that AstraZenecas conduct relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive.
The plaintiffs allege claims under various state consumer protection, unfair practices and false advertising laws.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek remedies that include restitution, disgorgement of profits, damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys fees and costs of suit.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 166 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED The first action was brought in 2004 in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles by the AFL-CIO, two unincorporated associations, and an individual on behalf of themselves, the general public and a class of California consumers, third party payers, cash payers and those making a co-payment.
A second action was filed in the same court on behalf of a similar putative class of consumers.
Actions making substantially similar allegations were filed in 2004 and 2005 on behalf of putative classes of consumers, third party payers, purchasers and labour management trust funds in the Circuit Court of Searcy County, Arkansas: in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County: in the Superior Court of Massachusetts in Boston: in the US District Court for the District of Delaware three consolidated cases : and in the Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial Court in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida.
In September 2005, the Court in California issued a ruling on AstraZenecas demurrer and motion to strike in the two California actions.
The Court granted AstraZenecas motion with respect to the associational plaintiffs and denied the motion with respect to the individual plaintiffs, allowing the cases of the individuals to proceed.
In October 2005, the Court in Massachusetts denied AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
Discovery in the California and Massachusetts cases is proceeding, and plaintiffs motions for class certification were filed in October 2007.
The California plaintiffs filed an amended class certification motion in January 2008.
In November 2005, the US District Court for the District of Delaware granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint.
In September 2007, the US Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed the dismissal and denied plaintiffs petition for rehearing en banc.
On 18 December 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the US Supreme Court.
AstraZenecas response to the petition is due in February 2008.
The Delaware state case has been stayed pending the outcome of the Delaware federal cases.
In May 2006, the Arkansas State Court granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the plaintiffs complaint.
The plaintiffs filed additional motions and pleadings, including an amended complaint.
AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint.
In October 2006, the Florida Court dismissed the plaintiffs complaint with prejudice and without leave to amend.
In June 2007, the Florida Court of Appeal affirmed the dismissal and the Florida Supreme Court denied further review.
Anti-trust In December 2006 and January 2007, several lawsuits against AstraZeneca entities, including putative class actions, were filed in the US District Court for the District of Columbia alleging anti-trust claims of unlawful monopolisation relating to Prilosec and Nexium.
Individual actions were filed in December 2006 by Walgreen Co. Eckerd Corporation, Maxi Drug, Inc. d b a Brooks Pharmacy, The Kroger Co. New Albertsons Inc. Safeway, Inc. Hy-Vee, Inc. American Sales Company, Inc. Rite Aid Corporation, and Rite Aid Headquarters Corp. Also, putative class actions brought on behalf of direct purchasers were filed on 18 December 2006 by Meijer, Inc. Meijer Distribution, Inc. Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. Inc. and in January 2007 by Burlington Drug Co. Inc. Dik Drug Co. Inc, and King Drug Co. of Florence, Inc.
The plaintiffs seek treble damages, injunctive relief and attorney fees.
All plaintiffs filed amended complaints in February 2007.
In April 2007, AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaints in each of the cases.
Patent proceedings In October 2007, the European Patent Office EPO Opposition Division ruled that the European process patent EP 0773940 for Nexium is valid in amended form, despite an opposition by the German generic manufacturer, ratiopharm.
The patent has been upheld as granted except, with respect to certain claims, minor amendments were made.
On 23 January 2008, ratiopharm filed a notice of appeal against this decision.
The EP 0773940 patent for Nexium covers a process for the manufacturing of esomeprazole and its salts in Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Spain, France, UK, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, The Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia and Sweden.
This positive decision by the EPO means that this patent, in its amended form, still covers the manufacturing process for Nexium.
This portfolio includes additional patents with expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2018.
In addition to these patents, Nexium has data exclusivity valid until March 2010 in most major European markets.
AstraZeneca will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property rights protecting Nexium.
Patent litigation In October 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited together Ranbaxy had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
The ANDA contained Paragraph IV certifications of invalidity and or non-infringement in respect of certain AstraZeneca US patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Nexium.
In November 2005, AstraZeneca commenced wilful infringement patent litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy and its affiliates in response to Ranbaxys Paragraph IV certifications regarding Nexium.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. that IVAX Corporation had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
IVAX also certified in respect of certain other AstraZeneca US patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Nexium that IVAX will not launch its product prior to the expiry of those patents, the latter of which expired in October 2007.
In March 2006, AstraZeneca commenced wilful patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against IVAX, its parent Teva Pharmaceuticals, and their affiliates.
The Ranbaxy and Teva IVAX matters have been consolidated.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 167 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In August 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from Dr Reddys Laboratories Inc. and Dr Reddys Laboratories Limited together, Dr Reddys that Dr Reddys had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
Dr Reddys August 2006 notice did not challenge three FDA Orange Book-listed patents claiming esomeprazole magnesium US Patent Nos.
In December 2007, AstraZeneca received another notice from Dr. Reddys that Dr. Reddys had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
Dissimilar from the August 2006 notice, Dr. Reddys December 2007 notice did challenge three FDA Orange Book-listed patents claiming esomeprazole magnesium US Patent Nos.
AstraZenecas exclusivity relating to these three patents expires on 3 August 2015, 27 November 2014 and 27 November 2014, respectively.
In January 2008, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Dr. Reddys in response to Dr. Reddys Paragraph IV certifications regarding Nexium.
In July and September 2007, AstraZeneca received notice from Matrix Laboratories, Inc. Matrix that Matrix had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
Matrix was seeking FDA approval to market a generic esomeprazole magnesium product prior to the expiration of some but not all of the patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Nexium.
Matrixs notice did not challenge three FDA Orange Book-listed patents claiming esomeprazole magnesium US Patent Nos.
Because AstraZeneca has not received notice from Matrix as to these three US patents, Matrix cannot market generic esomeprazole magnesium until the end of the exclusivity afforded by these patents.
As a result, AstraZeneca did not bring a lawsuit at this time.
AstraZeneca reserves the right to enforce all patents related to Nexium, including those listed in the FDA Orange Book.
After its expiry, a 30-month stay will not prevent the FDA from approving an ANDA, and an at risk launch by a generic drug manufacturer may occur, of delayed-release esomeprazole magnesium capsules, in the year ending 31 December 2008.
In Canada, AstraZeneca Canada, Inc. received several notices of allegation from Apotex Inc. Apotex in late 2007 in respect of patents listed on the Patent Register in Canada for Nexium.
Apotex has asserted in its notices that it has filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission in March 2007, for 20mg and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium trihydrate tablets and alleges non-infringement and or invalidity of numerous patents.
AstraZeneca has responded by commencing seven court applications in January 2008 under the Patented Medicines Notice of Compliance Regulations.
On 17 January 2008, Apotex advised that its product was erroneously described as being a trihydrate in its recent allegations, which allegations Apotex asserted it was withdrawing.
Apotex mailed replacement allegations on 17 January 2008, which AstraZeneca is entitled to challenge.
Apotex cannot obtain a Notice of Compliance marketing approval for its esomeprazole tablets until the earlier of the disposition of all of the court applications in Apotexs favour or 24 months from the date on which the latest court application has been commenced.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Nexium.
Nolvadex tamoxifen AstraZeneca was a co-defendant with Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr in numerous purported class actions filed in federal and state courts throughout the US.
All of the state court actions were removed to federal court and were consolidated, along with all of the cases originally filed in the federal courts, in a federal multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Some of the cases were filed by plaintiffs representing a putative class of consumers who purchased tamoxifen.
The other cases were filed on behalf of a putative class of third party payers including health maintenance organisations, insurers and other managed care providers and health plans that have reimbursed or otherwise paid for prescriptions of tamoxifen.
The plaintiffs alleged that they paid supra-competitive and monopolistic prices for tamoxifen as a result of the settlement of patent litigation between Zeneca and Barr in 1993.
The plaintiffs sought injunctive relief, treble damages under the anti-trust laws, disgorgement and restitution.
In April 2002, AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the cases for failure to state a cause of action.
In May 2003, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
The plaintiffs appealed the decision.
In November 2005, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision.
The plaintiffs thereafter moved for re-hearing by the original panel of judges in the case and re-hearing by a panel of all of the judges on the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
The plaintiffs requests for re-hearing were denied in September 2006.
In December 2006, the plaintiffs filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the US Supreme Court seeking to have the Court hear an appeal of the Second Circuits decision.
In June 2007, the US Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs writ, thus ending the litigation.
Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation suspension In September 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. IVAX that IVAX had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for a budesonide inhalation suspension containing a Paragraph IV certification and alleging invalidity and non-infringement in respect of certain of AstraZenecas patents relating to budesonide inhalation suspension.
In October 2005, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against IVAX in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey.
In December 2005, IVAX responded and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca filed an amended complaint, withdrawing averments as to the infringement of one of the patents-in-suit.
Discovery in the litigation is ongoing.
After its expiry, a 30-month stay will not prevent the FDA from approving an ANDA, and an at risk launch by a generic drug manufacturer may occur, of a budesonide inhalation suspension in the year ending 31 December 2008.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Pulmicort Respules.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 168 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Rhinocort Aqua budesonide nasal spray In September 2007, AstraZeneca AB received a letter from Apotex Inc. Apotex stating that Apotex had submitted an ANDA for a budesonide nasal spray 32mcg spray and that it intended to engage in the commercial manufacture, use and sale of a generic version of Rhinocort Aqua budesonide nasal spray before the expiration of US Patent Nos.
The Apotex notice contained a Paragraph IV certification alleging that the claims of the 445, 346 and 904 patents are not infringed and invalid.
The 346 and 904 patents will expire in April 2017.
The 445 patent has an additional six months of paediatric exclusivity which ends in October 2017.
After investigating the allegations in Apotexs Paragraph IV letter, AstraZeneca has decided not to file a patent infringement suit against Apotex.
AstraZeneca will not maintain or enforce the 445, 346 and 904 patents and has requested their fide-listing from the FDA Orange Book.
Seroquel quetiapine fumarate Product liability In August 2003, Susan Zehel-Miller filed a putative class action against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP on behalf of all persons in the US who purchased and or used Seroquel.
Among other things, the class action alleged that AstraZeneca failed to provide adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes.
In 2004, the US District Court for the Middle District of Florida denied class certification and the case was ultimately dismissed.
Two additional putative class actions raising similar allegations have likewise been dismissed.
There are no other US class actions relating to Seroquel: however, four putative class actions raising substantially similar allegations have been filed in Canada.
Additionally, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, either alone or in conjunction with one or more affiliates, has been sued in numerous individual personal injury actions involving Seroquel.
In most of these cases, the nature of the plaintiffs alleged injuries is not clear from the complaint and in most cases, little or no factual information regarding the alleged injury has been provided in the complaint.
However, the plaintiffs generally contend that they developed diabetes and or other related injuries as a result of taking Seroquel and or other atypical anti-psychotic medications.
As of 16 January 2008 AstraZeneca was defending 8,121 served or answered lawsuits involving approximately 12,347 plaintiff groups 24 January 2007: 604 served or answered lawsuits involving approximately 7,450 plaintiff groups.
To date, approximately 1,900 additional cases have been dismissed by order or agreement and approximately 1,400 of those cases have been dismissed with prejudice.
Approximately 22% of the cases that were or are pending in the federal court multi-district litigation MDL have been dismissed.
Approximately half of the currently pending Seroquel cases are in federal court with clusters of state court activity in Delaware, New Jersey, New York and Missouri.
Single cases are pending in a few additional jurisdictions, including one case in Canada.
Plaintiffs discovery of AstraZeneca, as well as AstraZenecas discovery of specific plaintiffs cases, is ongoing in most jurisdictions and AstraZeneca intends to vigorously test the merits of those individual cases on factual and legal grounds.
Bellwether case systems have been implemented by the courts in Delaware, New Jersey and the federal court MDL due to the larger volume of consolidated cases in those jurisdictions.
No trials are expected to begin in any of the Seroquel cases until the autumn of 2008.
One trial that was scheduled in Minnesota for March 2008 has been dismissed.
AstraZeneca is also aware of approximately 70 additional cases that have been filed but not yet served and has not determined how many additional cases, if any, may have been filed.
Some of the cases also include claims against other pharmaceutical manufacturers such as Eli Lilly & Co. Janssen Pharmaceutica, Inc. and or Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
AstraZeneca intends to litigate these cases on the merits and will defend the cases vigorously.
As of 31January 2008, legal defence costs of approximately $200m have been incurred of which approximately $160m was incurred during 2007.
AstraZeneca has product liability insurance that is considered to respond to the vast majority of claims brought in these Seroquel cases, subject to a retention.
This insurance provides coverage for legal defence costs and potential damages that may be incurred up to a specified limit.
AstraZeneca currently expects the legal defence costs to be less than the upper limit of the insurance coverage and has recorded an insurance receivable of $139m 2006 $nil.
However, these cases are at an early stage and there can be no guarantee that the ultimate cost incurred will not exceed any insurance recoveries received.
Patent litigation In September 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. Teva that Teva had submitted an ANDA for quetiapine fumarate 25mg tablets containing a Paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement respecting AstraZenecas US patent listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Seroquel.
In November 2005, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit directed to Tevas 25mg tablets ANDA in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey for wilful patent infringement.
In February 2006, AstraZeneca received another notice from Teva that it had amended its previously submitted ANDA for quetiapine fumarate 25mg tablets and added 100, 200 and 300mg tablets to its application to the FDA.
The amended ANDA submission contained a similar Paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement in respect of AstraZenecas US patent listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Seroquel.
In March 2006, in response to Tevas amended ANDA and Tevas intent to market additional strengths of a generic version of Seroquel in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patent, AstraZeneca filed an additional lawsuit against Teva in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey for patent infringement.
The two Teva lawsuits were consolidated in April 2006.
However, in March 2006, the US District Court had granted Tevas motion to strike AstraZenecas added allegation of wilfullness in its patent infringement claim in the first complaint directed to Tevas 25mg tablets.
Therefore, in the consolidated action, in response to AstraZenecas now combined allegations of patent infringement directed to Tevas 25, 100, 200 and 300mg tablets ANDA, Teva alleges non-infringement and patent invalidity.
In January 2007, Teva filed a motion seeking leave to amend its pleadings in the consolidated action to add allegations, defences and counter-claims directed to alleged inequitable conduct in the procurement of AstraZenecas patent.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 169 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In March 2007, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV certification notice-letter from another generic drug manufacturer, Sandoz Inc. Sandoz, notifying AstraZeneca that it had submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of AstraZenecas 25mg quetiapine fumarate tablets prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas listed patent.
Sandozs notice-letter alleged non-infringement and patent invalidity.
In April 2007, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Sandoz alleging patent infringement.
In June 2007, AstraZeneca received a third notice from Teva notifying AstraZeneca that it had supplemented its ANDA for quetiapine fumarate tablets again, adding 50, 150 and 400mg tablets to the application.
The third notice-letter similarly advised that Tevas supplementation contained a Paragraph IV certification respecting AstraZenecas listed patent covering Seroquel.
In June 2007, AstraZeneca filed a third lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva for its supplementation adding the 50, 150 and 400mg dosage strengths.
In October 2007, the Court granted AstraZenecas partial summary judgment motion based on collateral estoppel, which precludes Teva from re-litigating issues previously resolved against it in another previous patent litigation involving Eli Lillys anti-psychotic drug, Zyprexa.
The four pending patent infringement cases against Teva and Sandoz have been consolidated for purposes of discovery, which proceeds.
After its expiry, a 30-month stay will not prevent the FDA from approving an ANDA, and an at risk launch by a generic drug manufacturer may occur, of quetiapine fumarate tablets in the year ending 31 December 2008.
We continue to have full confidence in our intellectual property protecting Seroquel and will vigorously defend and enforce it.
Sales and marketing practices In February 2007, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania filed suit against AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly & Co. Lilly, and Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. Janssen claiming damages incurred by the Commonwealth as a result of alleged off-label promotion of atypical anti-psychotics by the three manufacturers.
The lawsuit is filed in state court in Philadelphia and seeks to recover the cost to the Pennsylvania Medicaid programme and other state-funded health insurance programmes for prescriptions written as a result of the alleged off-label promotion.
In December 2007, the Court granted defendants motion to sever the claims against AstraZeneca and Janssen from those against Lilly and directed the Commonwealth to file separate complaints against the two severed defendants, which the Commonwealth did in January 2008.
Although no similar lawsuits have been brought by states other than Pennsylvania, AstraZeneca has been informed that the Attorney Generals Offices of multiple other states have investigations into similar Seroquel off-label issues.
AstraZeneca has signed agreements with 20 states tolling the statutes of limitations on potential claims, and has been approached by additional states for similar tolling agreements.
AstraZeneca believes these claims to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend the Pennsylvania lawsuit.
In May 2007, the New Jersey Ironworkers Local Union No.
68 filed a class action suit against AstraZeneca on behalf of all individuals and non-governmental entities that paid for Seroquel from January 2000 to date.
The lawsuit is filed in the federal District Court in New Jersey and alleges that AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel for off-label uses and misled class members into believing that Seroquel was superior to other, lower-cost alternative medicines.
Two similar class action lawsuits were filed in June 2007 in the New Jersey and Pennsylvania federal courts.
In December 2007, the three lawsuits were transferred to the Middle District of Florida by the US Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation.
AstraZeneca believes these suits to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend the claims.
Symbicort budesonide formoterol In October 2007, following an appeal by a group of generic manufacturers, Norton Healthcare Limited, Miat SpA, Generics UK Limited and Liconsa SA, the European Patent Office EPO Technical Board of Appeal revoked the European combination patent for Symbicort for use in asthma.
Two European patents EPB1014993 and EPB1210943 claiming Symbicort for use in COPD are under appeal and opposition respectively.
The hearing date for the COPD appeal at the EPO is now set for 6 May 2008.
The proceedings instituted by IVAX Pharmaceuticals UK Limited in the UK and Ireland with respect to the Symbicort patents will remain stayed until the EPO Technical Board of Appeal decision on the COPD patent.
AstraZeneca will vigorously defend and enforce its remaining intellectual property portfolio protecting Symbicort, which has patent expiry dates up to 2019 in Europe.
Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate In May 2003, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against KV Pharmaceutical Company KV in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in response to KVs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 200mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the substance and its formulation.
In response to later similar notices from KV related to the 25, 50 and 100mg doses, AstraZeneca filed further actions.
KV responded in each instance and filed counterclaims alleging noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the listed patents.
In February 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC Andrx in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Andrxs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 50mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In response to two later similar notices from Andrx related to the 25, 100 and 200mg doses, AstraZeneca filed two additional patent infringement actions in the same court.
In each instance, Andrx claimed that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 170 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In April 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. Eon in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Eons notification of its intention to market generic versions of Toprol-XL tablets in the 25, 50, 100 and 200mg doses prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In its response, Eon alleged that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
Eon also alleged that the filing of the infringement complaints, as well as other actions by AstraZeneca, constitutes anti-competitive conduct in violation of US anti-trust laws.
Pursuant to a joint motion of AstraZeneca and Eon these anti-trust counts were severed from the case and stayed, for possible consideration depending on the outcome of the trial of the patent claims.
All of the patent litigation relating to Toprol-XL against KV, Andrx and Eon was consolidated for pre-trial discovery purposes and motion practice in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
The defendants filed a motion for summary judgment in December 2004 alleging that the Toprol-XL patents are invalid due to double patenting.
A summary judgment motion of unenforceability was filed by the defendants in 2005 and AstraZeneca filed summary judgment motions on infringement and validity in 2005.
In January 2006, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri issued a ruling finding that the two patents-in-suit are unenforceable based on AstraZenecas inequitable conduct in the prosecution of these patents in the US Patent and Trademark Office and invalid.
AstraZeneca appealed the District Court decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In July 2007, a three-judge panel of the Federal Circuit unanimously ruled that the inequitable conduct determination by the District Court was improper on summary judgment because there were material facts in dispute and therefore the issue of inequitable conduct was remanded to the District Court.
The panel upheld, however, in a divided 2-1 decision, the finding that the Toprol-XL patents were invalid due to double patenting.
In August 2007, AstraZeneca petitioned the Federal Circuit for reconsideration of the invalidity determination.
Reconsideration was denied in October 2007.
In August 2006, Sandoz formerly Eon received final approval from the FDA on the 25mg dose of metoprolol succinate and tentative approval on the 50, 100 and 200mg doses.
On 21 November 2006, Sandoz launched its 25mg metoprolol succinate product, which was followed by Par Pharmaceuticals Par launch of a 25mg generic metoprolol succinate product under a distribution agreement with AstraZeneca.
In May 2007, the FDA issued final approval to KV for the 100 and 200mg doses of generic metoprolol succinate.
KV launched these products in July 2007, followed by a launch of an authorised generic by Par under its distribution agreement with AstraZeneca.
In May 2007, the FDA issued final approval to Sandoz for a 50mg generic metoprolol succinate product after Andrx waived its right to 180 days exclusivity on the 50mg product.
In August 2007, Sandoz launched its 50mg product, followed immediately by the launch of a 50mg authorised generic by Par, pursuant to its distribution agreement with AstraZeneca.
In the first quarter of 2006, AstraZeneca was served with 14 complaints filed in the US District Courts in Delaware, Massachusetts and Florida against AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca AB and Aktiebolaget Hssle.
The complaints were putative class actions filed on behalf of both direct purchasers and indirect purchasers that allege that the AstraZeneca defendants attempted to illegally maintain monopoly power in the US over Toprol-XL in violation of the Sherman Act through the listing of invalid and unenforceable patents in the FDA Orange Book and the enforcement of such patents through litigation against generic manufacturers seeking to market metoprolol succinate.
The complaints seek treble damages based on alleged overcharges to the putative classes of plaintiffs.
These 14 complaints were consolidated into two amended complaints in the US District Court in Delaware, one on behalf of direct purchasers, and one on behalf of indirect purchasers.
The lawsuits are based upon the 2006 ruling described above by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in the consolidated patent litigation against KV, Andrx and Eon, that the AstraZeneca patents relating to Toprol-XL are invalid and unenforceable.
In 2006 AstraZeneca filed a motion seeking to dismiss or in the alternative stay the consolidated complaint in both anti-trust cases.
As noted above, AstraZeneca appealed the District Court decision, which resulted in a reversal and remand on the issue of inequitable conduct and an affirmance that the Toprol-XL patents were invalid.
AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the complaints is still pending.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations of the anti-trust complaints and will vigorously defend the lawsuits.
In June 2007, AstraZeneca received notification from Dr. Reddys Laboratories Inc that it had filed an ANDA for the 100 and 200mg doses of metoprolol succinate and that sale of its generic products would not infringe AstraZenecas US Patent Nos.
AstraZeneca did not file suit in response to this notification.
Zestril lisinopril In 1996, two of AstraZenecas predecessor companies, Zeneca Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. as licensees, Merck & Co. Inc. and Merck Frosst Canada Inc. commenced a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex, Inc. Apotex, alleging infringement of Mercks lisinopril patent.
Apotex sold a generic version of AstraZenecas Zestril and Mercks Prinivil tablets.
Apotex admitted infringement but raised positive defences to infringement, including that it acquired certain quantities of lisinopril prior to issuance of the patent and that certain quantities were licensed under a compulsory licence.
Apotex also alleged invalidity of the patent.
Following a trial in early 2006, in April 2006 the Federal Court of Canada ruled in favour of AstraZeneca and Merck on the key issues and Apotex stopped selling lisinopril in May 2006.
In October 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal in Canada upheld the lower courts decision and dismissed Apotexs appeal.
In December 2006, Apotex sought leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
The Supreme Court of Canada dismissed Apotexs leave to appeal in May 2007.
AstraZeneca intends to pursue a reference proceeding in the Federal Court to quantify the damages related to the infringement by Apotex.
Apotex commenced the sale of lisinopril in October 2007 after expiry of the relevant patent.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 171 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Average wholesale price class action litigation In January 2002, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with 24 other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit in Massachusetts, brought on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs alleged to have overpaid for prescription drugs as a result of inflated wholesale list prices.
Following the Massachusetts complaint, nearly identical class action suits were filed against AstraZeneca and various other pharmaceutical manufacturers in four other states.
AstraZeneca and other manufacturers have since been sued in similar lawsuits filed by the state Attorneys General of Pennsylvania, Nevada, Montana, Wisconsin, Illinois, Alabama, Kentucky, Arizona, Mississippi, Hawaii, Alaska, Idaho and Utah as well as by multiple individual counties in the state of New York.
The Attorney General lawsuits seek to recover alleged overpayments under Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programmes.
In several cases, the states are also suing to recover alleged overpayments by state residents.
Several of these suits have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal multi-district litigation procedures.
In January 2006, the District Court in Boston certified three classes of plaintiffs against the Track 1 manufacturer defendants, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Schering-Plough and Johnson & Johnson.
The three certified classes are: Class 1 a nationwide class of consumers who made co-payments for certain  drugs reimbursed under the Medicare Part B programme Part B drugs : Class 2 a Massachusetts-only class of third-party payers, including insurance companies, union health and welfare benefit plans, and self-insured employers, who covered consumer co-payments for Part B drugs: and Class 3 a Massachusetts-only class of third-party payers and consumers who paid for Part B drugs outside of the Medicare programme.
For all classes, the only AstraZeneca drug at issue is Zoladex goserelin acetate implant.
A bench trial against four of the Track 1 defendants, including AstraZeneca, by Classes 2 and 3 began in November 2006 and concluded in January 2007.
A separate jury trial against AstraZeneca only, involving the Class 1 claims, was scheduled to begin in June 2007.
In May 2007, the parties reached a proposed settlement agreement resolving the Class 1 claims.
The settlement, if ultimately approved by the Court, will involve payments of up to $24m, not including attorneys fees, to reimburse individual class members submitting claims.
AstraZeneca has agreed that $10m of any unclaimed amounts will be donated to charitable organisations funding cancer patient care and research.
Notice of the proposed settlement was mailed to potential class members in December 2007, and the Court has scheduled a hearing for final approval of the settlement in May 2008.
A provision of $27m was established in 2007.
In June 2007 and November 2007, the Court issued decisions on liability and damages on Classes 2 and 3.
The Court found AstraZeneca liable under the Massachusetts consumer protection statute for engaging in unfair and deceptive conduct in connection with the pricing of Zoladex during the period 1998 to 2003.
The Court awarded double damages with pre-judgment interest of $5.5m for Class 2, and single damages with pre-judgment interest of $7.4m for Class 3.
AstraZeneca believes the decision to be in error and has filed an appeal in which it is confident that it will prevail and so no provision has been made for these awards.
The Courts award on Classes 2 and 3, if it survives appeal, relates to damages incurred by payers within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts only.
Plaintiffs have filed a motion seeking certification of multi-state classes of third-party payers in an effort to pursue similar claims for damages under the consumer protection statutes of other states.
The Court has scheduled a hearing on plaintiffs motion in May 2008.
The decision on Classes 2 and 3 and the settlement of Class 1 relate to Zoladex only.
The multiple Attorney General lawsuits pending against AstraZeneca and other manufacturers nationwide, which involve numerous drugs in addition to Zoladex, remain pending against AstraZeneca.
The first of these cases scheduled for trial is the case filed by the Alabama Attorney General in state court in Montgomery, Alabama.
That case is scheduled for a jury trial against AstraZeneca beginning February 2008.
Separately, MedImmune is involved in various lawsuits brought by various states and counties in the US alleging manipulation of average wholesale prices by several defendants, including MedImmune.
The lawsuits were filed between 2003 and 2007 by Alabama, Mississippi, Iowa, New York City, and by various New York counties.
The status of the various lawsuits by various states and counties alleging manipulation of average wholesale price by several defendants, including MedImmune, did not change materially during the financial year ended 31 December 2007, except that in April 2007, Orange County, New York filed suit in the Southern District of New York against a number of defendants, including MedImmune and in October 2007, the State of Iowa filed a lawsuit against a number of defendants, including MedImmune, in the US District Court for the Southern District of Iowa.
The allegations made in respect of the average wholesale price lawsuits described in this section are denied and will be vigorously defended.
340B class action litigation In August 2004, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant, along with multiple other pharmaceutical manufacturers, in a class action suit filed by the County of Santa Clara in California state court on behalf of similarly situated California counties and cities that allegedly overpaid for drugs covered by the federal 340B programme.
The 340B programme entitles hospitals and clinics that treat a substantial portion of uninsured patients to preferential drug pricing for outpatient drugs.
According to the complaint, the genesis of the suit was an audit report by the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General OIG in June 2004.
The OIG later withdrew the audit report and in 2006, re-issued a revised audit report that substantially modified the previous audit findings.
The case was removed to federal court, the US District Court for the Northern District of California.
In 2006, the US District Court dismissed each of the allegations in the Countys complaint.
The County appealed the dismissal to the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and the parties briefed the matter.
A date for oral argument has not yet been set.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations in the Countys complaint and intends to continue to defend them vigorously.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 172 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Drug importation anti-trust litigation In May 2004, plaintiffs in a purported class action filed complaints in the US District Court for Minnesota and for New Jersey, alleging that AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and eight other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants conspired to prevent American consumers from purchasing prescription drugs from Canada, depriving consumers of the ability to purchase drugs at competitive prices.
The New Jersey case was voluntarily dismissed in July 2004.
In August 2005, the Minnesota District Court dismissed with prejudice the plaintiffs federal anti-trust claims and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction in relation to the state statutory and common law claims, which claims were dismissed without prejudice.
The plaintiffs appealed the District Courts decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
In November 2006, the US Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision.
This matter is now concluded.
In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in the Superior Court of California making similar allegations to the Minnesota action and also alleging a conspiracy by approximately 15 pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants to set the price of drugs sold in California at or above the Canadian sales price for those same drugs.
In July 2005, the Court overruled in part and sustained in part, without leave to amend, the defendants motion to dismiss the plaintiffs third amended complaint in these proceedings.
The Court overruled the defendants motion in respect of conspiracy claims but sustained the motion in respect of the California Unfair Competition Law claims.
In December 2006, the Court granted the defendants motion for summary judgment and the case was subsequently dismissed.
In January 2007, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeal of the State of California.
Briefing on the appeal is now complete.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations in the California action and is vigorously defending this matter.
Anti-trust In July 2006, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP was named as a defendant, along with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers and wholesalers, in a complaint filed by RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. RxUSA in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
The complaint alleges that the defendants violated federal and state anti-trust laws by, amongst other things, allegedly refusing to deal with RxUSA and other secondary wholesalers in the wholesale pharmaceutical industry.
The plaintiff alleges a conspiracy among the manufacturers and seeks an injunction and treble damages.
AstraZeneca vigorously denies the allegations and in November 2006 filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
For a description of other anti-trust-related litigation involving AstraZeneca, see the subsections entitled Nexium esomeprazole, Losec Prilosec omeprazole, Nolvadex tamoxifen and Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate in this Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
AstraZeneca is part of a sectoral inquiry by the European Commission into the pharmaceutical industry and was the subject of an unannounced inspection in January 2008.
The inquiry relates to the introduction of innovative and generic medicines and it will cover commercial practices, including the use of patents and generics.
We understand that several companies have been similarly approached.
The Commission has stated that this inquiry is not aimed at investigating practices where there have been any indications of wrongdoing although it could address any competition law breaches found by means of separate proceedings.
The Commission has also stated that it plans to issue an interim report in autumn 2008 and envisages that the final results of its inquiry will be available in spring 2009.
AstraZeneca is cooperating fully with the Commission in relation to its inquiry.
Employment-wage hour litigation In September 2006, Marc Brody filed a putative class action lawsuit against AstraZeneca LP on behalf of himself and a class of approximately 844 pharmaceutical sales specialists employed by the Group in California during the period 19 September 2002 to the present.
The plaintiff alleges he and the proposed class members were unlawfully classified as exempt employees and denied overtime compensation and meal breaks in violation of the California Labour Code.
AstraZeneca removed this action to the US District Court for the Central District of California in October 2006.
The Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on or about 20 March 2007, for failure to provide meal and rest periods, failure to pay all wages earned each pay period, failure to provide accurate wage statements, failure to pay wages timely upon termination, unfair competition and civil penalties.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations made by the plaintiff, asserting that the sales specialists are properly classified under various exemptions to the wage laws.
The plaintiffs lawyers are also pursuing similar claims in lawsuits against most of the major pharmaceutical companies.
In separate lawsuits against AstraZeneca, the firms representing Brody filed additional state wage-and-hour class actions, the first under Pennsylvania Minimum Wage Act and Wage Payment Collection Law in the US District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on behalf of two plaintiffs and a putative class of approximately 473 sales specialists working in Pennsylvania during the period March 2004 to the present: and the second in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of one plaintiff and a putative class of approximately 890 sales specialists working in the state of New York during the period June 2001 to the present, claiming the sales specialists were misclassified as exempt from overtime pay under New York labour law.
Additionally, in June 2007, the firms representing Brody filed a nationwide collective action based on federal wage-and-hour law FLSA in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking unpaid overtime compensation and liquidated damages.
The lawsuit has a potential class size of 8,300 current and former sales specialists employed by the Group in the US during the period June 2004 to the present.
The parties have negotiated a stipulation of dismissal of this lawsuit, and the action has been dismissed with prejudice.
Plaintiffs counsel is expected to file a new FLSA action with a different named plaintiff in the near future.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 173 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple US federal and state investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices.
The US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia is directing four active investigations involving AstraZeneca.
The first two involve requests for documents and information relating to contracting and disease management programmes with two of the leading national Pharmacy Benefits Managers.
The third involves a review of sales and marketing practices relating to Seroquel, including allegations that AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel for non-indicated off-label uses.
The fourth investigation relates to selected physicians who participated in clinical trials involving Seroquel.
The US Attorneys Office in Boston is conducting an additional investigation into sales and marketing interactions with a leading provider of pharmacy services to long-term care facilities.
AstraZeneca understands that all of these investigations may be the subjects of sealed qui tam lawsuits filed under the False Claims Act.
There are also a number of additional active investigations led by state Attorneys General.
These include multiple investigations relating to Seroquel off-label issues, discussed above, along with an investigation by the Delaware Attorney Generals Office into marketing and sale activities within the state of Delaware.
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
Congressional investigations AstraZeneca, along with several other manufacturers, has received a letter from the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the US House of Representatives as part of the Committees ongoing oversight of the pharmaceutical industrys research and marketing practices.
The Committee has requested that AstraZeneca provide clinical and marketing information relating to Seroquel.
AstraZeneca also received letters from the Finance Committee of the US Senate requesting information regarding AstraZenecas payments to certain identified physicians and their prescribing information related to Seroquel.
In addition, the Finance Committee has requested sales and marketing information regarding the use of Seroquel in nursing homes.
AstraZeneca is co-operating with both Committees.
Federal Trade Commission FTC study on authorised generics In October 2007, AstraZeneca received a Special Order from the FTC, requesting certain information in connection with the FTCs industrywide study of the shortand long-term competitive effects of authorised generics in the prescription drug marketplace.
AstraZeneca has begun to collect the requested information and plans to respond to the Special Order.
Informal US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC inquiry In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Italy, Croatia, Russia and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present.
The SECs request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors or government officials and related internal accounting controls.
The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors offices relating to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials.
AstraZeneca has produced documents in response to this request.
It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
Serious Fraud Office SFO inquiry In 2007, AstraZeneca received from the SFO in the UK a request for documentation about its involvement in the UN Oil for Food programme in Iraq.
AstraZeneca denies any allegation of illegal or unethical behaviour in its trading relationships with Iraq.
AstraZeneca will comply with the SFOs request for documentation.
Other government investigations From time to time, AstraZeneca receives enquiries and requests for information from a number of governmental and or other regulatory bodies relating to a range of issues some, but not all, of which relate directly to the business of AstraZeneca and some of which are confidential in nature.
AstraZeneca seeks to comply with these requests in an appropriate and timely manner and generally on the basis of legal advice received.
The nature and scope of the investigation in relation to which such enquiries and requests for information have been received is not always known to AstraZeneca.
Consequently, it is not always possible to determine whether such enquiries and investigations relate specifically to AstraZeneca or are merely a means of gathering factual information in the context of an unrelated third-party issue.
