FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 121 ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING AND PREPARATION OF Revenue Business combinations and goodwill FINANCIAL INFORMATION Sales exclude inter-company sales and On the acquisition of a business, fair values The Consolidated Financial Statements have value-added taxes and represent net invoice are attributed to the identifiable assets and been prepared under the historical cost value less estimated rebates, returns and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the convention, modified to include revaluation settlement discounts.
Sales are recognised fair value cannot be measured reliably in to fair value of certain financial instruments when the significant risks and rewards of which case the value is subsumed into as described below, in accordance with ownership have been transferred to a third goodwill.
Where fair values of acquired the Companies Act 1985 and International party.
In general this is upon delivery of the contingent liabilities cannot be measured Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as products to wholesalers.
However, when a reliably, the assumed contingent liability is adopted by the European Union adopted product faces generic competition particular not recognised but is disclosed in the same IFRS in response to the IAS regulation attention is given to the possible levels of manner as other contingent liabilities.
The Consolidated Financial returns and, in cases where the circumstances Statements also comply fully with IFRSs are such that the level of returns and, hence, Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised as issued by the International Accounting revenue cannot be measured reliably, sales and subject to an impairment review, both Standards Board.
IFRS 7 Financial are only recognised when the right of return annually and when there is an indication that Instruments: Disclosures, the Amendment to expires which is generally on ultimate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements prescription of the product to patients.
Prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill was Capital Disclosures and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: amortised over its estimated useful life: such Group and Treasury Share Transactions Research and development amortisation ceased on 31 December 2002. have been adopted in the year.
Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it The Groups policy up to and including 1997 The Company has elected to prepare the is incurred.
was to eliminate goodwill arising upon Company Financial Statements in accordance acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 with UK Accounting Standards.
These are Internal development expenditure is capitalised First-time Adoption of International Financial presented on pages 179 to 183 and the only if it meets the recognition criteria of IAS Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business accounting policies in respect of Company 38 Intangible Assets.
Where regulatory and Combinations, such goodwill will remain information are set out on page 180. other uncertainties are such that the criteria eliminated against reserves.
are not met the expenditure is recognised in In preparing their individual financial the income statement.
This is almost invariably Employee benefits statements, the accounting policies of some the case prior to approval of the drug by the The Group accounts for pensions and other overseas subsidiaries do not conform with relevant regulatory authority.
Where, however, employee benefits principally healthcare adopted IFRSs.
Therefore, where appropriate, the recognition criteria are met, intangible under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect adjustments are made in order to present assets are capitalised and amortised on a of defined benefit plans, obligations are the Group Financial Statements on a straight-line basis over their useful economic measured at discounted present value whilst consistent basis.
As at 31 December plan assets are measured at fair value.
The 2007, no amounts have met the recognition operating and financing costs of such plans The preparation of the Financial Statements in criteria.
Payments to in-licence products and are recognised separately in the income conformity with generally accepted accounting compounds from external third parties for statement: current service costs are spread principles requires management to make new research and development projects systematically over the lives of employees estimates and judgements that affect the in-process research and development, and financing costs are recognised in full in reported amounts of assets and liabilities at generally taking the form of up-front payments the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains the date of the Financial Statements and the and milestones, are capitalised and amortised, and losses are recognised immediately in the reported amounts of revenues and expenses generally on a straight-line basis, over their statement of recognised income and expense.
Actual results useful economic lives from product launch.
could differ from those estimates.
Under this policy, it is not possible to determine Where the calculation results in a benefit to precise economic lives for individual classes the Group, the recognised asset is limited Judgements include classification of of intangible assets.
However, lives range to the present value of any available future transactions between the income statement from three years to twenty years.
refunds from the plan or reductions in future and balance sheet, whilst estimations focus contributions to the plan.
on areas such as carrying values and Intangible assets relating to products in estimated lives.
development both internally generated and Payments to defined contribution plans are externally acquired are subject to impairment recognised in the income statement as they AstraZenecas management considers testing at each balance sheet date.
the following to be the most important intangible assets are tested for impairment accounting policies in the context of the when there are indications that the carrying Taxation Groups operations.
value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment The current tax payable is based on taxable losses are recognised immediately in the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from The accounting policy descriptions set out income statement.
profit as reported in the income statement the areas where judgement needs exercising, because it excludes items that are never the most significant of which are revenue taxable or deductible.
The Groups current tax recognition, research and development, assets and liabilities are calculated using tax goodwill and intangible assets, provisions for rates that have been enacted or substantively contingent liabilities, post-retirement benefits, enacted by the balance sheet date.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 122 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Deferred tax is provided using the balance Reviews are made annually of the estimated The Groups other financial instruments sheet liability method, providing for temporary remaining lives and residual values of individual comprise: differences between the carrying amounts productive assets, taking account of of assets and liabilities for financial reporting commercial and technological obsolescence Cash and cash equivalents purposes and the amounts used for taxation as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this Fixed deposits purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised policy it becomes impractical to calculate Other investments to the extent that it is probable that taxable average asset lives exactly.
However, the Bank and other borrowings profit will be available against which the asset total lives range from approximately thirteen Derivatives can be utilised.
This requires judgements to to fifty years for buildings, and three to fifteen be made in respect of the availability of future years for plant and equipment.
All items of Cash and cash equivalents taxable income.
property, plant and equipment are tested for Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in impairment when there are indications that hand, current balances with banks and similar No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised the carrying value may not be recoverable.
institutions and highly liquid investments with in respect of temporary differences associated Any impairment losses are recognised maturities of three months or less when with investments in subsidiaries, branches and immediately in the income statement.
They are readily convertible into joint ventures where the Group is able to known amounts of cash and are held at control the timing of reversal of the temporary Borrowing costs amortised cost.
differences and it is probable that the Borrowing costs are recognised in the temporary differences will not reverse in the income statement as incurred.
Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds Leases held with banks and other financial institutions, The Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities Rentals under operating leases are charged to are initially measured at fair value including are calculated using tax rates that are expected the income statement on a straight-line basis.
direct transaction costs and are subsequently to apply in the period when the liability is remeasured to amortised cost using the settled or the asset realised based on tax Subsidiaries effective interest rate method at each balance rates that have been enacted or substantively A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or sheet date.
Changes in carrying value are enacted by the balance sheet date.
Control is regarded recognised in the income statement.
as the power to govern the financial and Accruals for tax contingencies require operating policies of the entity so as to Other investments management to make judgements and obtain benefits from its activities.
Where the change in the fair value of an estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to investment is substantially offset by the tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised The financial results of subsidiaries are change in fair value of a derivative which has unless the tax positions will probably be consolidated from the date control is been entered into to manage the risk of sustained.
Once considered to be probable, obtained until the date that control ceases.
changes in fair value of the investment, the management reviews each material tax investment and related derivative are initially benefit to assess whether a provision should Inventories measured at fair value with direct transaction be taken against full recognition of that Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or costs being included in the income statement benefit on the basis of potential settlement net realisable value.
The first in, first out or an as an expense and are remeasured to fair through negotiation and or litigation.
All average method of valuation is used.
For value at each balance sheet date with provisions are included in current liabilities.
finished goods and work in progress, cost changes in carrying value being recognised Any recorded exposure to interest on tax includes directly attributable costs and certain in the income statement.
liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
Selling expenses and certain other overhead Where investments have been classified as Share-based payments expenses principally central administration held for trading, they are measured initially All plans are assessed and have been costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is at fair value and subsequently at fair value.
The grant date determined as estimated selling price less all Changes in fair value are recognised in the fair value of employee share option plans is estimated costs of completion and costs to income statement.
generally calculated using the Black-Scholes be incurred in selling and distribution.
In accordance with IFRS 2 ShareIn all other circumstances, the investments based Payments, the resulting cost is Write downs of inventory occur in the general are initially measured at fair value including recognised in the income statement over the course of business and are included in cost direct transaction costs and are subsequently vesting period of the options, being the of sales in the income statement.
remeasured to fair value at each balance period in which the services are received.
Changes in carrying value due The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect Financial instruments to changes in exchange rates or impairments expected and actual levels of awards The Groups financial instruments include are recognised in the income statement.
vesting, except where the failure to vest is as interests in associates, leases, and rights All other changes in fair value are recognised a result of not meeting a market condition.
and obligations under employee benefit as income or expense directly in reserves.
plans which are dealt with in specific Impairments are recorded in the income Property, plant and equipment accounting policies.
statement when there is a decline in the The Groups policy is to write off the difference value of an investment that is deemed to be between the cost of each item of property, other than temporary.
On disposal of the plant and equipment and its residual value investment, the cumulative income or expense systematically over its estimated useful life.
recognised in reserves is recognised as the gain Assets under construction are not depreciated.
or loss on disposal in the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 123 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Bank and other borrowings Foreign currencies Accounting standards issued The Group uses derivatives, principally interest Income statement items in foreign currencies but not adopted rate swaps, to hedge the interest rate exposure are translated into US dollars at average IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in inherent in a portion of its fixed interest rate exchange rates, which approximate to actual November 2006.
It requires the identification debt.
In such cases the Group will either rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
of operating segments based on internal designate the debt as fair value through the Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange reporting to the chief operating decision profit and loss when certain criteria are met or rates prevailing at the date of the Group maker and extends the scope and disclosure as the hedged item under a fair value hedge.
requirements of IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
It is effective for annual periods beginning If the debt instrument is designated as fair Exchange gains and losses on short term on or after 1 January 2009.
The adoption of value through the profit and loss, the debt is foreign currency borrowings and deposits IFRS 8 will not have a significant impact initially measured at fair value with direct are included within finance income and upon the net results, net assets or disclosures transaction costs being included in the income finance expense.
Exchange differences on all of AstraZeneca.
statement as an expense and is remeasured other transactions, except relevant foreign to fair value at each balance sheet date with currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
A revised IAS 23 Borrowing costs was changes in carrying value being recognised issued in March 2007.
It removes the option in the income statement along with changes In the Consolidated Financial Statements, of immediately recognising as an expense in the fair value of the related derivative.
Such exchange differences arising on consolidation borrowing costs that relate to assets that a designation has been made where this of the net investments in subsidiaries, joint take a substantial period of time to prepare significantly reduces an accounting mismatch ventures and associates, together with those for use and therefore requires an entity to which would result from recognising gains on foreign currency loans which hedge these capitalise borrowing costs as part of the cost and losses on different bases.
net investments, are taken directly to equity of such assets.
The revised Standard is via the statement of recognised income and effective for annual periods beginning on or If the debt is designated as the hedged item expense.
Gains and losses accumulated in after 1 January 2009 and will be applied under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially the translation reserve will be recycled to the prospectively from that date.
The adoption measured at fair value with direct transaction income statement when the foreign operation of these amendments to IAS 23 is not costs being amortised over the life of the is sold.
expected to have a material effect upon the bonds, and is remeasured for fair value net results or net assets of AstraZeneca.
changes in respect of the hedged risk at Contingent liabilities each balance sheet date with changes in Through the normal course of business, A revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial carrying value being recognised in the AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, Statements was issued in September 2007. income statement along with changes in the the settlement of which may involve cost It revises the presentation of non-owner fair value of the related derivative.
Provision is made where an changes in equity and introduces a statement adverse outcome is probable and associated of comprehensive income.
It is effective for If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar costs, including related legal costs, can be annual periods beginning on or after 1 January denominated loans are designated as net estimated reliably.
The adoption of these amendments to investment hedges of foreign operations and disclosures are included.
IAS 1 will not have a significant impact upon exchange differences arising from the the net results, net assets or disclosures retranslation are recognised directly in Where it is considered that the Group is more of AstraZeneca.
All other exchange differences likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved giving rise to changes in the carrying value of in defending the claim are charged to the IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been foreign currency loans and overdrafts are income statement as they are incurred.
endorsed by the EU during 2007.
The revised recognised in the income statement.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IAS 1 Where it is considered that the Group has Presentation of Financial Statements Other interest bearing loans are initially a valid contract which provides the right to have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
measured at fair value including direct reimbursement from insurance or otherwise transaction costs and are subsequently of legal costs and or all or part of any loss The following IFRIC interpretations have been remeasured to amortised cost using the incurred or for which a provision has been issued but are not yet adopted by AstraZeneca: effective interest rate method at each balance established, the best estimate of the amount IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, sheet date.
Changes in carrying value are expected to be received is recognised as IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, recognised in the income statement.
and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding requirements Derivatives AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental and their interaction, none of which have yet Derivatives are initially measured at fair value liabilities relating to its past operations, been endorsed by the EU.
None are expected with direct transaction costs being included principally in respect of soil and groundwater to have a significant impact upon adoption.
in the income statement as an expense and remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs are subsequently remeasured to fair value at are made when there is a present obligation each balance sheet date.
Changes in carrying and where it is probable that expenditure on value are recognised in the income statement.
remedial work will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
