FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing In preparing each of the Group and The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Company Financial Statements, the proper accounting records that disclose with and the Group and Company Financial Directors are required to: reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Statements, in accordance with applicable position of the Company and enable them to law and regulations.
Select suitable accounting policies and ensure that its financial statements comply then apply them consistently.
They have Company law requires the Directors to prepare general responsibility for taking such steps Group and Company Financial Statements Make judgements and estimates that are as are reasonably open to them to safeguard for each financial year.
Under that law the reasonable and prudent.
the assets of the Group and the Company Directors are required to prepare the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other Financial Statements in accordance with For the Group Financial Statements, irregularities.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union state whether they have been prepared EU and applicable law and have elected to in accordance with IFRS as adopted by The Directors are responsible for the prepare the Company Financial Statements the EU.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate in accordance with UK Accounting and financial information included on the Standards and applicable law.
For the Company Financial Statements, Companys website.
Legislation in the UK state whether applicable UK Accounting governing the preparation and dissemination The Group Financial Statements are required Standards have been followed, subject to of financial statements may differ from by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to any material departures disclosed and legislation in other jurisdictions.
present fairly the financial position and explained in the Company Financial performance of the Group: the Companies Statements.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Act 1985 provides in relation to such Directors are also responsible for preparing a financial statements that references in the Prepare the financial statements on Directors Report, Directors Remuneration relevant part of that Act to financial the going concern basis unless it is Report and Corporate Governance statements giving a true and fair view are inappropriate to presume that the Group Statement that comply with that law and references to their achieving a fair presentation.
and the Company will continue in business.
The Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR, AND REPORT ON, INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Directors are responsible for establishing are subject to the risks that controls may 2007, the internal control over financial and maintaining adequate internal control become inadequate because of changes in reporting is effective based on those criteria.
AstraZenecas conditions or that the degree of compliance internal control over financial reporting is with the policies or procedures may KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered designed to provide reasonable assurance deteriorate.
public accounting firm, has audited the over the reliability of financial reporting and effectiveness of internal control over financial the preparation of consolidated financial The Directors assessed the effectiveness of reporting as at 31 December 2007 and, as statements in accordance with generally AstraZenecas internal control over financial explained on page 117, has issued an accepted accounting principles.
reporting as at 31 December 2007 based on unqualified report thereon.
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Due to its inherent limitations, internal control Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway over financial reporting may not prevent or Commission in Internal Control-Integrated detect misstatements.
Based on this assessment, the evaluation of effectiveness to future periods Directors believe that, as at 31 December
