Filename: 51384 12.3d Time: 15:19:58 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -203783307 Shareholder information BT products and services mentioned in this report r BT Assurance Plus: offers the benets of BT Assurance, plus some additional ones.
BT Assurance is a support service for BT business customers offering round-the-clock fault reporting: a simplied calling process: and one point of contact for repair issues on all of BTs key products.
r BT Broadband Talk: enables customers to make and receive calls over a broadband connection, using a touch-tone telephone plugged into the router or BT Home Hub.
Customers on BT Broadband Talk get a separate phone number.
r BT Broadband Voice: a voice over IP telephone service offering unlimited local and national calls for a xed monthly subscription r BT Business Broadband: a broadband package specically designed for small and medium businesses, which was superseded in January 2007 by BT Business Total Broadband r BT Business Broadband Voice: enables business customers to make and receive calls over a broadband line using a normal telephone r BT Business IT Manager: a selection of services to meet all small and medium businesses IT needs from hardware supply and set up to advice on, and support for, systems r BT Business IT Support Manager: a support service BTs IT experts take remote control of your PC to x problems.
Available as pay-as-you-go or unlimited support options.
r BT Business Plan: a call package for small and medium businesses offering capped rates.
It costs nothing to sign up.
r BT Business Total Broadband: BTs most complete broadband package specically designed for small and medium businesses, powered by business-grade broadband with download speeds of up to 8Mb r BT Corporate Fusion: a ground-breaking premises-based xed-mobile convergence service for large organisations.
It enables organisations to take advantage of xed-mobile convergence and their increasing deployment of IP telephony and wicoverage.
r BT DataStream: a wholesale broadband network service aimed primarily at internet service providers, but a simpler service than that provided by the BT IPstream product.
r BT Digital Vault: a quick and hassle-free service for safeguarding les stored on customers PCs and laptops including photos, emails, and other important personal information r BT Friends & Family: a discount package for domestic telephone customers, enabling savings of 10% on the ten most-called numbers and 20% on one BestFriend number r BT Fusion: an intelligent mobile phone that automatically functions as a normal mobile when out and about, and switches to a landline at home r BT Home Hub: a stylish, powerful feature-packed ADSL router, designed to sit at the heart of the digital home.
It can connect to up to 15 devices wirelessly, and supports BTs full range of services including BT Total Broadband and BT Broadband Talk.
r BT Home IT Advisor: a phone service that puts customers in touch with a highly trained advisor who can, for example, offer help with setting up an email account or a home network, and who can talk them through technical difficulties with their PCs, networks or applicationsand even create a virtual engineer by enabling an advisor to log on to their computer remotely and troubleshoot a problem r BT Home IT Visit: a nationwide service providing face-to-face technical support for customers in their homes r BT IPStream: a wholesale broadband network service primarily aimed at internet service providers r BT Movio: the worlds first wholesale mobile broadcast entertainment service to combine live TV, DAB digital radio, a seven-day programme guide and red button interactivity for mobile phones r BT NetProtect: BT has teamed up with PC security specialist, Norton, to offer continuous, automatically updated protection against viruses, hackers and other online threats.
Its compatible with new Microsoft Windows Vista.
r BT Openzone: a convenient, easy to use broadband internet access service using wireless technology Wi-Fi.
Users can access email or surf the internet from around 40,000 hot spots throughout the UK and around the world.
r BT Privacy at Home: includes caller display, which enables the user to see the number of the person calling.
BT Privacy at Home is free, but customers need to sign up for it.
Customers can also be added to the Telephone Preference Service register, which cuts out unwanted telemarketing calls.
r BT Softphone: an easy to download service giving free global PC-to-PC chat at any time of day.
r BT Text: enables users to send and receive text messages from their home phone.
r BT Together: a calling plan for consumer customers, offering three low-cost calling packages r BT Total Broadband: the most comprehensive broadband packages yet seen in the UK.
Powered by ultra-fast download speeds of up to 8Mb, it offers free internet voice calls, free video calls, and a suite of security software all brought together through the BT Home Hub.
BT Total Broadband even gives freedom to roam outside the home with Wi-Fi, via free BT Openzone wireless minutes.
There are no connection charges, and the package comes with around-the-clock helpdesk support.
r BT Vision: next generation TV service combining the appeal of TV with the interactivity of broadband.
Customers can watch what they want when they want, and not be tied to TV schedules.
The service does not require a regular monthly subscription.
r BT Wi-Fi Fusion: enables users to make calls when out and about using BT Openzone hotspots r BT Workspace Lite: a feature of BT Business Total Broadband.
It provides small and medium businesses with one place to store documents online on an extranet, allowing them to share information and work collaboratively with customers and suppliers.
r LLU: local loop unbundling the process whereby BTs exchange lines are physically disconnected from BTs network and connected to other operators networks.
This enables operators, other than BT, to use the companys local loop to provide services to customers.
r MegaStream Ethernet: Megastream Ethernet and BT Enterprise Ethernet provide secure links between 0.2Mb and 100Mb between two or more sites for data communications.
The two services offer a range of distinct features.
r Telephone Preference Service: enables customers to lter out most unsolicited marketing calls r V-Box: BT Vision is delivered through a set-top box the V-box.
This contains a personal digital recorder able to store up to 80 hours of content, pause or rewind live TV, and record programmes at the touch of a button.
4190816 Produced by BT Group Designed by Greentarget, London Typeset by Bowne Printed in England by Pindar Graphics Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk, which is produced using 50% recovered waste fibre and 50% virgin wood fibre.
All pulps used are elemental chlorine free ECF.
50 By Appointment to Her Majesty The Queen Suppliers of Communications, Broadband www.
com and Networked Services BT PHME 52340 London
