Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:33 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -559376960 Consolidated financial statements 74 Statement of directors Consolidated financial 121 Share based payments responsibility statements 126 Audit and non audit services 75 Report of the independent 78 Accounting policies 126 Financial instruments and auditors 86 Group income statement risk management Consolidated financial 87 Group statement of recognised 133 Post balance sheet events statements income and expense 134 United States generally 143 Glossary of terms and 88 Group cash ow statement accepted accounting US equivalents principles 89 Group balance sheet 144 Report of the independent 90 Notes to the consolidated auditors parent company financial statements 145 Financial statements of 90 Segmental analysis BT Group plc 95 Other operating income 148 Subsidiary undertakings 96 Operating costs and associate 97 Specic items 149 Quarterly analysis of revenue 97 Finance income and finance and profit expense 150 Selected financial data 98 Taxation 154 Financial statistics 99 Dividends 156 Operational statistics 100 Earnings per share 101 Cash and cash equivalents 101 Net debt 102 Free cash ow 102 Intangible assets 104 Property, plant and equipment 105 Investments 106 Associates and joint ventures 107 Trade and other receivables 107 Loans and other borrowings 108 Derivative financial instruments 109 Trade and other payables 109 Provisions 110 Deferred taxation 111 Minority interests 111 Reconciliation of movements in equity 111 Share capital 112 Other reserves and retained earnings 113 Related party transactions 113 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 114 Acquisitions 117 Retirement benefit plans 121 Employees BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 77 Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:33 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -2049875414 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies I BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL II BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION STATEMENTS The group financial statements consolidate the financial These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in statements of BT Group plc the company and entities accordance with applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
controlled by the company its subsidiaries and incorporate its For BT there are no differences between IFRSs as adopted for share of the results of jointly controlled entities joint ventures use in the EU and full IFRS as published by the IASB.
The and associates using the equity method of accounting.
financial statements have been prepared under the historical The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the cost convention, modied for the revaluation of certain financial year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or assets and liabilities at fair value.
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where Where there are significant differences to US GAAP, these necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of have been described in note 35. subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the The policies set out below have been consistently applied to accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
all years presented with the exception of those relating to All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are financial instruments under IAS 32, Financial Instruments: eliminated on consolidation.
Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially Recognition and Measurement, which have been applied with recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition the carrying value effect from 1 April 2005. of the groups investment in associates and joint ventures Certain comparative balance sheet amounts for the 2006 includes the groups share of post acquisition reserves, less any financial year have been reclassied to conform with the impairment in the value of individual assets.
The income presentation adopted in the 2007 financial year.
These include statement reects the groups share of the results of operations 305 million which has been reclassied from prepayments to after tax of the associate or joint venture.
non current assets at 31 March 2006 in respect of costs relating The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are to the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of long detailed on page 148. term networked IT services contracts.
In addition, 267 million has been reclassied from property, plant and equipment to III REVENUE intangible assets at 31 March 2006 in respect of IT software Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received application assets.
or receivable for communication services and equipment sales, The preparation of financial statements in conformity with net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of IFRSs requires the use of accounting estimates.
It also requires services and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable management to exercise its judgement in the process of that the economic benets associated with a transaction will applying the groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a ow to the group and the amount of revenue and the higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where associated costs can be measured reliably.
Where the group acts assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated as agent in a transaction it recognises revenue net of directly financial statements, are disclosed below in Critical accounting attributable costs.
Revenue arising from separable installation and connection The groups income statement and segmental analysis services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
separately identies trading results before significant one-off or Revenue from the rental of analogue and digital lines and unusual items termed specic items, a non GAAP measure.
private circuits is recognised evenly over the period to which the This is consistent with the way that financial performance is charges relate.
Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful call is made over the groups network.
analysis of the trading results of the group.
The directors believe Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, an understanding of the groups financial performance as are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue specic items are significant one-off or unusual in nature and arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc have little predictive value.
Furthermore, the group consider a between other telecommunications operators is recognised at columnar presentation to be appropriate as it improves the the time of transit across the groups network.
clarity of the presentation and is consistent with the way that Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is financial performance is measured and reported to the board of recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of directors.
Specic items may not be comparable to similarly ownership are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the titled measures used by other companies.
Items which have been date the equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
considered significant one-off or unusual in nature include Revenue from long term contractual arrangements is disposals of businesses and investments, business restructuring, recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The asset impairment charges and property rationalisation stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure programmes.
The directors intend to follow such a presentation according to the nature of the contract.
For long term services on a consistent basis in the future.
Specic items for the current contracts revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over the and prior years are disclosed in note 4. term of the contract.
However, if the performance pattern is Accounting policies in respect of the parent company, BT other than straight line, revenue is recognised as services are Group plc, are set out on page 145.
These are in accordance provided, usually on an output or consumption basis.
price contracts, including contracts to design and build software 78 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:34 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1907973669 solutions, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of results in an operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in completion, as determined by the proportion of costs incurred the income statement immediately.
relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of completion such as contract milestone customer acceptance.
V FOREIGN CURRENCIES In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups recognised as the service is rendered.
subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary Costs related to delivering services under long term economic environment in which the entity operates the contractual arrangements are expensed as incurred.
The consolidated financial statements are of costs incurred in the initial set up, transition or presented in sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
transformation phase of the contract are deferred and recorded Foreign currency transactions are translated into the within non current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised generate future economic benets and are assessed for in the income statement in the line which most appropriately recoverability on a regular basis.
reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Where monetary The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation and total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable are designated as hedges of a net investment or as cash ow measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless hedges, such exchange differences are initially recognised in the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with equity.
reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be results of foreign undertakings are translated into sterling at recoverable.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to average rates of exchange for the year unless this average is revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effects of the overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are and estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated revenue recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the for a contract, the full contract life loss is immediately translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more liabilities denominated in foreign currency, the cumulative separate elements that have value to a customer on a translation difference associated with the undertaking in the standalone basis, revenue is recognised for each element as if it translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on were an individual contract.
The total contract consideration is disposal.
allocated between the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the appropriate revenue recognition criteria VI BUSINESS COMBINATIONS applied to each element as described above.
The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition of subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business IV LEASES Combinations.
On transition to IFRSs, the group elected not to The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before lease, is based on the substance of the arrangement and 1 April 2004.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries requires an assessment of whether the fullment of the which occurred between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004 is arrangement is dependent on the use of a specic asset or therefore included in the balance sheet at original cost, less assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right to use accumulated amortisation to the date of transition and any the asset.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group a subsidiary which occurred prior to 1 January 1998 was written holds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are off directly to retained earnings.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to the Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of identiable net assets acquired.
The excess of the cost of the the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are share of the identiable net assets acquired, the difference is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective recognised directly in the income statement.
On disposal of a interest method.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a subsidiary, the gain or loss on disposal includes the carrying finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill amount is deferred and recognised in the income statement over previously written off to retained earnings is not recycled to the the lease term.
income statement on disposal of the related subsidiary.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are VII INTANGIBLE ASSETS charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group the period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 79 Financial statements Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:34 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -2081772869 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies the asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other IX PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT than goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet their useful economic life.
The method of amortisation reects at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any the pattern in which the assets are expected to be consumed.
the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the straight line On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference method is used.
between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recorded in the income statement.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Cost the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets Included within the cost for network infrastructure and including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill equipment are direct labour, contractors charges, materials, is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less payments on account and directly attributable overheads.
Depreciation Telecommunication licences Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a Licence fees paid to governments, which permit straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so telecommunication activities to be operated for dened periods, as to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as Brands, customer lists and customer relationships follows: Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are Land and buildings used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets Freehold buildings 40 years and include managements estimates of revenue and profits to Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease be generated by the acquired businesses.
or 40 years, whichever is the shorter Computer software Computer software comprises computer software purchased from Network infrastructure and equipment third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Transmission equipment: Computer software purchased from third parties is initially Duct 40 years recorded at cost.
Cable 3 to 25 years Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years Subscriber acquisition costs Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are Payphones other network equipment 2 to 20 years capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the customer life or contractual period.
Other Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Estimated useful economic lives Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal categories of intangible assets are as follows: Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are recognised prospectively.
Computer software 2 to 5 years X ASSET IMPAIRMENT NON FINANCIAL ASSETS VIII RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in the period in which it is incurred.
circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the Development expenditure, including the cost of internally carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment developed software, is recognised in the income statement in test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that reference to the higher of the net present value of expected economic benets will ow to the group from the asset being future cash ows value in use of the relevant cash generating developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and unit and the fair value less cost to sell.
technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are when the asset being developed is ready for use.
tested for impairment at least annually.
Research and development costs include direct labour, If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to contractors charges, materials and directly attributable reduce the carrying amount of the related assets to their overheads.
estimated recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and other assets.
Where an impairment loss is recognised against an asset it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a 80 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:34 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1571723099 change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable and service conditions.
Fair value is measured at the date of amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, except in grant and is spread over the vesting period of the award.
The respect of impairment of goodwill which may not be reversed in fair value of options and awards granted is measured using any circumstances.
either the Binomial or Monte Carlo model, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
Any proceeds received are credited to XI INVENTORY share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or The group has applied IFRS 2 Share based payment rental and consumable items.
retrospectively to all options and awards granted after Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower 7 November 2002 and not fully vested at 1 January 2005. of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
XV TAXATION Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is XII TERMINATION BENEFITS provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using Termination benets leaver costs are payable when the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or enacted by the balance sheet date.
when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in for these benets.
The group recognises termination benets respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount when it is demonstrably committed to the affected employees of the groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any XIII POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable which is administered by an independent trustee, for the that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same majority of its employees.
jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
pension plans is calculated separately for each scheme by Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability earned in return for their service to date.
That benefit is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate used is the yield Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except maturity dates approximating the terms of the groups where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or The income statement charge is allocated between an credited directly in equity, in which case the tax is also operating charge and a net finance charge.
The operating recognised in equity.
charge reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge XVI ADVERTISING AND MARKETING reects the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing of the plan, offset by the expected return on the assets of the activities are expensed within other operating costs as incurred.
plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period XVII DIVIDENDS in which they occur and are presented in the statement of Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which recognised income and expense.
they are declared and approved by the companys shareholders Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are in general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they carried out by an independent actuary as determined by the are paid.
trustees at intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of contribution payable.
The pension cost is XVIII PROVISIONS determined on the advice of the groups actuary, having regard Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or to the results of these trustee valuations.
In any intervening constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely years, the actuaries review the continuing appropriateness of the than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle contribution rates.
the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is and the income statement is charged with the contributions material.
XIX FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FROM 1 APRIL 2005 XIV SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The following are the key accounting policies used from 1 April The group has a number of employee share schemes and share 2005 onwards to reect the adoption of IAS 32, Financial option and award plans under which it makes equity settled Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial share based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
options and awards granted is recognised as an employee expense after taking into account the groups best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest allowing for non market BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 81 Financial statements Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:34 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 2061749365 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and Cash and cash equivalents financial liabilities Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of maturity of three months or less.
ownership or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash derecognised when the obligation under the liability is and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as discharged, cancelled or expires.
In particular, for all regular way dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank purchases and sales of financial assets, the group recognises the overdrafts are included within loans and other borrowings in financial assets on the settlement date, which is the date on current liabilities on the balance sheet.
which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a Financial assets at fair value through income statement financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has principally for the purpose of selling in the short term held for arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
held in this category are initially recognised and subsequently The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that measured at fair value, with changes in value recognised in the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated income statement in the line which most appropriately reects future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original the nature of the item or transaction.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related objectively to an event after the impairment was Loans and receivables recognised and is reversed to the extent the carrying value of Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the date of xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active reversal.
market other than: If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal r those that the group intends to sell immediately or in the payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from short term, which are classied as held for trading: equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses r those for which the group may not recover substantially all of on debt instruments are taken through the income statement if its initial investment, other than because of credit the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively deterioration, which are classied as available-for-sale.
related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement.
Reversals in respect of Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus equity instruments classied as available-for-sale are not transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost recognised in the income statement.
using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying If there is objective evidence of an impairment loss on an value recognised in the income statement in the line which most unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery Available-for-sale financial assets of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are amount of loss is measured as the difference between the either specically designated in this category or not classied in assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets future cash ows discounted at the current market rate of return are carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for a similar financial asset.
for changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses which are recognised in the Financial liabilities income statement are recognised in equity until the financial Trade and other payables asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially previously recognised in equity is taken to the income recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced statement, in the line that most appropriately reects the nature amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the of the item or transaction.
Trade and other receivables Loans and other borrowings Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the other borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful fair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between receivables.
the fair value of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the Provisions are made specically where there is objective loan or borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative evidence of a dispute or an inability to pay.
An additional and the loan or borrowing is recorded separately on initial provision is made based on an analysis of balances by age, recognition.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and if included in a fair value hedge relationship are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated 82 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:35 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1539731448 with the loans and other borrowings.
The resultant amortisation same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where of fair value movements are recognised in the income ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is statement.
recognised in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus Fair value hedge transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge the amount determined in accordance with the accounting of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or policy relating to provisions and the amount initially determined unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the same line in the income statement, together with any Derivative financial instruments changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce attributable to the hedged risk.
exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a instruments.
foreign operation are taken to shareholders equity on Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for consolidation to the extent the hedges are deemed effective.
trading and initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair a foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement in net finance Discontinuance of hedge accounting expense.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge the nature of the hedge.
Derivative financial instruments are no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes classied as current assets or current liabilities where they are designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial not designated in a hedging relationship or have a maturity asset or liability remains or highly probable transaction is still period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments expected to occur.
Under a cash ow hedge the cumulative gain have a maturity period greater than 12 months and are or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in designated in a hedge relationship, they are classied within accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If either non current assets or non current liabilities.
the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place or Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other the underlying hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is and characteristics are not closely related to those of host recognised immediately in the income statement.
Under a hedge contracts and host contracts are not carried at fair value.
of a net investment the cumulative gain or loss remains in Changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives are equity when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, recognised in the income statement in the line which most terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualies for hedge appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the Hedge accounting income statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net Cash ow hedge investment in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the value hedge the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a with the hedged risk is amortised to the income statement using highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss the effective interest method over the remaining term of the on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in hedged item.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the Share capital associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects deduction from the proceeds received.
Shares in the parent the income statement.
company, BT Group plc, held by employee share ownership For highly probable transactions, when the transaction trusts and repurchased shares are recorded in the balance sheet subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
or non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying XX FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TO 31 MARCH 2005 amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The accounting policies adopted in respect of financial If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently instruments in periods up to, and including 31 March 2005, are results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial set out below.
liability, then the associated gains and losses that were Financial assets were held at the lower of cost and net recognised directly in equity are reclassied into the income realisable value in accordance with UK GAAP.
Debt instruments statement in the same period or periods during which the asset are stated at the amount of net proceeds adjusted to amortise acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement.
any discount over the term of the debt.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 83 Financial statements Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:36 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -345025956 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Criteria to qualify for hedge accounting Goodwill The group considers its derivative financial instruments to be The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been hedges when certain criteria are met.
For foreign currency determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations derivatives, the instrument must be related to actual foreign require the use of estimates, including managements currency assets or liabilities or a probable commitment whose expectations of future revenue growth, operating costs and characteristics have been identied.
It must involve the same profit margins for each cash generating unit.
currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Useful lives for property, plant and equipment groups operations.
For interest rate derivatives, the instrument The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with must be related to assets or liabilities or a probable cables and switching equipment operating for over ten years and commitment, such as a future bond issue, and must also change underground ducts being used for decades.
The annual the interest rate or the nature of the interest rate by converting depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives a xed rate to a variable rate or vice versa.
allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on their Accounting for derivative financial instruments remaining lives in light of technological change, network Interest differentials, under interest rate swap agreements used investment plans including the groups 21CN transformation to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on programme prospective economic utilisation and physical borrowings are xed, are recognised by adjustment of net condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to service lives of finance expense.
assets implemented from 1 April 2006 in aggregate had no The forward exchange contracts used to change the currency significant impact on the results for the year ended 31 March mix of net debt are revalued to balance sheet rates with net 2007. unrealised gains and losses included in current and non current derivative financial instruments.
The difference between spot and Property arrangements forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of net As part of the property rationalisation programme we have finance expense over the term of the contract.
identied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are The forward exchange contracts hedging transaction being made to sub-let this space, it is recognised that this may exposures are revalued at the prevailing forward rate on the not be possible immediately in the current economic balance sheet date with net unrealised gains and losses being environment.
Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant shown as current and non-current derivative financial possession and any shortfall arising from the sub lease rental instruments.
income being lower than the lease costs being borne by BT.
Any such cost or shortfall has been recognised as a provision.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND KEY JUDGEMENTS Long term customer contracts The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs Long term customer contracts can extend over a number of requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
During the contractual period, revenue, costs and also requires management to exercise its judgement in the profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate process of applying the groups accounting policies.
We profitability of each contract.
If, at any time, these estimates continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements indicate the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated based on available information and experience.
As the use of loss for the contract is recognised immediately.
The group estimates is inherent in financial reporting, actual results could performs ongoing profitability reviews of its contracts in order to differ from these estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
Key of judgement or complexity are described below.
factors reviewed include transaction volumes, or other inputs for which we get paid, future staff and third party costs and Interconnect income and payments to other anticipated cost productivity, savings and efficiencies.
telecommunications operators In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the Pension obligations trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, used in these cases to determine the amount of income to pay pension benets to approximately 350,000 people over receivable from or payments we need to make to these other more than 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life often regulated and are subject to retrospective adjustment and expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our estimates are used in assessing the likely effect of these current employees, the return that the pension fund assets will adjustments.
generate in the time before they are used to fund the pension payments and the rate at which the future pension payments Providing for doubtful debts are discounted.
We use estimates for all these factors in BT provide services to around 18 million individuals and determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our businesses, mainly on credit terms.
We know that certain debts financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical due to us will not be paid through the default of a small experience and our judgement regarding future expectations.
Estimates, based on our historical experience are used in determining the level of debts that we Deferred tax believe will not be collected.
These estimates include such Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management factors as the current state of the economy and particular judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
84 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:36 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -46035032 Income tax IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 April The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to 2009 complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these IFRS 8 requires the identication of operating segments based laws and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining on internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker and the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we extends the scope and disclosure requirements of IAS 14 recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, Segmental Reporting.
The group is currently assessing the assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve impact of IFRS 8 on its segmental analysis disclosure.
complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective different from the estimates reected in the financial from 1 April 2009 statements.
The amendment to IAS 23 eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or Determination of fair values production of a qualifying asset as incurred.
As a result, the Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative group will be required to capitalise such borrowing costs as part financial instruments and certain elements of loans and of the cost of that asset.
The group is currently assessing the borrowings, are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with impact of the amendment upon the results and net assets of the changes in fair value reected in the income statement.
values are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations and in part by using valuation techniques.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective from 1 April 2007 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND IFRIC 8 claries that transactions within the scope of IFRS 2 AMENDMENTS TO PUBLISHED STANDARDS ADOPTED Share Based Payment include those in which the entity cannot IN THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 specically identify some or all of the goods and services During the year the following standards which are relevant to received.
The group has assessed the impact of this the groups operations became effective and were adopted: interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
r Amendment to IAS 21, Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives r Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee effective from 1 April 2007 Contracts IFRIC 9 claries that an entity should assess whether an r Amendment to IAS 39, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host Forecast Intragroup Transactions contract and accounted for as a derivative when the entity first r Amendment to IAS 39, The Fair Value Option becomes a party to the contract.
Subsequent reassessment is r IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains prohibited unless there is a change in the contract terms, in a lease which case it is required.
The group has assessed the impact of r IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment significant impact on the groups financial statements.
The adoption of these standards has not had a significant IFRIC 10, Financial Reporting and Impairment impact on the groups financial statements in the year.
effective from 1 April 2007 IFRIC 10 states that impairment losses recognised in interim ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, INTERPRETATION AND financial statements should not be reversed in subsequent AMENDMENTS TO PUBLISHED STANDARDS NOT YET interim or full year financial statements.
The group has assessed EFFECTIVE the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial existing standards have been published that are mandatory for statements.
the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007 or later periods, but which the group has not early IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share adopted.
The new standards which are relevant to the groups Transactions effective from 1 April 2007 operations are as follows: IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share based payment arrangements involving group entities should be accounted for IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective as cash settled or equity settled.
The group has assessed the from 1 April 2007 and amendment to IAS 1 impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to Presentation of Financial Statements Capital have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
Disclosures effective from 1 April 2007 IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures of qualitative and quantitative IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective information about exposure to risks arising from financial from 1 April 2008 instruments including specified minimum disclosures about credit IFRIC 12 addresses the accounting by operators of public-private risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to service concession arrangements.
The group has assessed the market risk.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to about the level of an entitys capital and how it manages have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
Management is currently assessing the disclosure impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 on the groups financial statements.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 85 Financial statements Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:39 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -458478053 Consolidated financial statements Group income statement For the year ended 31 March 2007 Before specic Specic a items items Total For the year ended 31 March 2007 Notes m m m Revenue 1 20,223 20,223 Other operating income 2 236 3 233 Operating costs 3 17,746 169 17,915 Operating profit 1 2,713 172 2,541 Finance expense 5 2,604 2,604 Finance income 5 2,371 139 2,510 Net finance expense 233 139 94 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 15 15 15 profit on disposal of associate 2222 profit before taxation 2,495 11 2,484 Taxation 6 611 979 368 profit for the year 1,884 968 2,852 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 1,882 968 2,850 Minority interests 22 2 2 Earnings per share 8 Basic 34.4p Diluted 33.6p Before specic Specic a items items Total For the year ended 31 March 2006 Notes m m m Revenue 1 19,514 19,514 Other operating income 2 227 227 Operating costs 3 17,108 138 17,246 Operating profit 1 2,633 138 2,495 Finance expense 5 2,740 2,740 Finance income 5 2,268 2,268 Net finance expense 472 472 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 15 16 16 profit on disposal of joint venture 11 profit before taxation 2,177 137 2,040 Taxation 6 533 41 492 profit for the year 1,644 96 1,548 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 1,643 96 1,547 Minority interests 22 1 1 Earnings per share 8 Basic 18.4p Diluted 18.1p a For a definition of specific items, see accounting policies.
An analysis of specific items is provided in note 4.
Dividends paid in the year were 1,053 million 2006: 912 million, 2005: 786 million, as shown in note 7.
Dividends proposed in respect of the 2007 financial year were 15.1 pence per share 2006: 11.9 pence, 2005: 10.4 pence which amounts to 1,247 million 2006: 993 million, 2005: 883 million.
86 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:40 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1899847284 Consolidated financial statements Group income statement For the year ended 31 March 2007 continued Before specic Specic a items items Total For the year ended 31 March 2005 Notes m m m Revenue 1 18,429 18,429 Other operating income 2 193 358 551 Operating costs 3 15,929 59 15,988 Operating profit 1 2,693 299 2,992 Finance expense 5 2,773 2,773 Finance income 5 2,174 2,174 Net finance expense 599 599 Share of post tax loss of associates and joint ventures 14 25 39 profit before taxation 2,080 274 2,354 Taxation 6 541 16 525 profit for the year 1,539 290 1,829 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 1,540 290 1,830 Minority interests 22 1 1 Earnings per share 8 Basic 21.5p Diluted 21.3p a For a definition of specific items, see accounting policies.
Group statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 2005 Notes m m m profit for the year 2,852 1,548 1,829 Actuarial gains relating to retirement benefit obligations 29 1,409 2,122 294 Exchange differences: on translation of foreign operations 95 53 27 fair value loss on net investment hedges 20 reclassied and reported in net profit 9 Fair value movements on available-for-sale assets: fair value gains 35 reclassied and reported in net profit 35 Fair value movements on cash ow hedges: fair value losses gains 201 4 reclassied and reported in net profit 364 204 Tax impact of above items 6 486 593 79 Net gains recognised directly in equity 991 1,353 242 Total recognised income and expense for the year 3,843 2,901 2,071 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 3,843 2,900 2,072 Minority interests 1 1 3,843 2,901 2,071 The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39, with effect from 1 April 2005.
The adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 resulted in a decrease in equity at 1 April 2005 of 209 million, net of deferred tax, of which nil was attributable to minority interests.
A reconciliation of the changes in other reserves and retained earnings is given in note 25.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 87 Financial statements Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:40 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1250255696 Consolidated financial statements Group cash ow statement For the year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 2005 Notes m m m Cash ow from operating activities profit before taxation 2,484 2,040 2,354 Depreciation and amortisation 2,920 2,884 2,844 profit loss on sale of associates and non current asset investments 19 1 358 Net finance expense 94 472 599 Other non cash charges 50 87 2 Share of profits losses of associates and joint ventures 15 16 39 Increase in inventories 6 13 12 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 373 41 206 Increase in trade and other payables 327 174 59 Decrease increase in provisions and other liabilities 217 189 173 Cash generated from operations 5,245 5,777 5,906 Income taxes paid 411 390 332 Income tax repayment for prior years 376 Net cash inow from operating activities 5,210 5,387 5,574 Cash ow from investing activities Interest received 147 185 374 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 6 12 Proceeds on disposal of group undertakings 27 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 89 66 111 Proceeds on disposal of associates and joint ventures 27 35 Proceeds on disposal of non current financial assets 4 1 539 Proceeds on disposal of current financial assets 3,687 5,964 3,754 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 284 165 426 Purchases of property, plant and equipment and computer software 3,298 2,940 3,056 Investment in associates and joint ventures 7 2 27 Purchases of non current financial assets 7 2 2 Purchases of current financial assets 3,426 2,743 3,044 Net cash outow inow from investing activities 3,035 365 1,740 Cash ow from nancing activities Equity dividends paid 1,054 907 784 Dividends paid to minority interests 3 Interest paid 797 1,086 1,260 Repayments of borrowings 809 4,148 1,022 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 276 284 275 New bank loans raised 11 1,022 5 Net proceeds on issue of commercial paper 309 464 Repurchase of ordinary shares 400 348 195 Proceeds on issue of treasury shares 123 92 Repurchase of ordinary shares by subsidiary 2 Net cash used in nancing activities 2,898 5,278 3,529 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 37 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 760 474 305 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 1,784 1,310 1,005 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 9 1,024 1,784 1,310 88 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 08.3d Time: 15:18:43 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1734142210 Consolidated financial statements Group balance sheet As at 31 March 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Non current assets Intangible assets 12 2,584 1,908 Property, plant and equipment 13 14,997 15,222 Derivative financial instruments 18 25 19 Investments 14 27 17 Associates and joint ventures 15 67 48 Trade and other receivables 16 523 305 Deferred tax assets 21 117 764 18,340 18,283 Current assets Inventories 133 124 Trade and other receivables 16 4,073 3,894 Current tax receivable 504 Derivative financial instruments 18 27 69 Investments 14 3 365 Cash and cash equivalents 9 1,075 1,965 5,815 6,417 Current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 17 2,203 1,940 Derivative financial instruments 18 318 332 Trade and other payables 19 6,719 6,540 Current tax liabilities 277 598 Provisions 20 100 70 9,617 9,480 Total assets less current liabilities 14,538 15,220 Non current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 17 6,387 7,995 Derivative financial instruments 18 992 820 Other payables 19 590 485 Deferred tax liabilities 21 1,683 1,505 Retirement benefit obligations 29 389 2,547 Provisions 20 225 261 10,266 13,613 Equity Ordinary shares 24 432 432 Share premium 24 31 7 Capital redemption reserve 2 2 Other reserves 25 88 364 Retained earnings 25 3,685 750 Total parent shareholders equity 4,238 1,555 Minority interests 22 34 52 Total equity 23 4,272 1,607 14,538 15,220 The consolidated financial statements on pages 78 to 142 and 148 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2007 and were signed on its behalf by Sir Christopher Bland Chairman Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive Hanif Lalani Group Finance Director BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 89 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:50 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -512555260 Consolidated Consolidated financial financial statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Primary reporting format business segments The group provides communication services which include networked IT services, local and international telecommunications services and broadband and internet products and services.
The group is organised into four primary business segments: BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
Each of these four lines of businesses have differing risks, rewards and customer proles and hence are the groups primary reporting segments.
The revenue of each business segment is derived as follows: BT Global Services mainly generates its revenue from the provision of networked IT services, outsourcing and system integration work and traditional xed line services to multi-site organisations which include the public sector and major corporates and from the xed network operations of the groups worldwide subsidiaries.
BT Retail derives its revenue from the supply of exchange lines and from the calls made over these lines, the leasing of private circuits and other private services.
It also generates revenue from broadband, mobility, data, internet and multimedia services and from providing managed and packaged communications solutions to consumers and small and medium sized business customers in the UK.
BT Wholesale derives its revenue from providing network services and solutions to communication companies, including xed and mobile network operators and other service providers, and from carrying transit trafc between telecommunications operators.
Openreach derives its revenue from providing equivalent access to the local access network in the UK.
Its primary products are Local Loop Unbundling LLU, Wholesale Line Rental WLR, Wholesale Extension Services WES and Backhaul Extension Services BES.
These equivalent products are sold to BT lines of business and other communication providers at the same arms length prices, with the BT lines of business being treated no differently than any other customer with regard to terms and conditions or access to systems and data.
There is extensive trading between BTs lines of business and the line of business profitability is dependent on the transfer price levels.
For regulated products and services those transfer prices are market based whilst for other products and services the transfer prices are agreed between the relevant lines of business on an arms length basis.
These intra-group trading arrangements are subject to periodic review.
Impact of Openreach on segmental disclosure Prior to the 2007 financial year, the group was organised into three primary segments: BT Global Services, BT Retail and BT Wholesale.
On 22 September 2005, BT entered into the Undertakings with Ofcom as a result of which BT was required to establish a new line of business and primary segment called Openreach.
Openreach was launched operationally on 21 January 2006 and is separately reported within BTs results for the first time in the 2007 financial year.
In accordance with the timetable set out in the Undertakings, the group was required to facilitate the reporting of Openreach as a separate line of business by the end of July 2006.
This was achieved and discrete financial information has been presented to senior management on the new business structure with respect to periods from 1 April 2006 onwards.
Both IFRSs and US GAAP require segmental information to be presented on a consistent basis for all years reported.
In the event of a restructuring of business segments, comparative information is therefore required to be restated, unless this is impracticable.
The results for the 2006 financial year have been restated to reect the separate reporting of Openreach as a new business segment.
These restatements also reect the impact of the new internal trading arrangements which have been implemented due to the creation of Openreach.
The results for the 2005 financial year, however, have not been restated as it is impracticable to do so.
Some of the products and services that Openreach now sell were previously provided by BT Wholesale, but in a different form.
As a result of the Undertakings, new equivalent products which did not previously exist had to be created for both internal and external customers.
The changes required to capture the separate reporting of these new products and services were introduced during the 2006 financial year and therefore actual data was available to support the estimates and assumptions required to restate the results for that year.
The equivalent products and services did not exist in the 2005 financial year, and therefore the level of estimation and extrapolation required to restate the results for that year would have been too significant to provide sufciently objective and reliable information.
Furthermore, the fundamental level of reorganisation and restructuring which occurred, combined with the fact that the products previously sold by BT Wholesale no longer exist, mean it is also impracticable to report the results for the current financial year on the old business segment structure.
In order to assist the readers understanding of the year on year performance, additional disclosures have been presented showing the previously reported segmental data for the 2006 and 2005 financial years on the old business segment basis, prior to the creation of Openreach.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Business segment results for the years ended 31 March 2007 and 2006 new segment structure BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2007 m m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 7,467 7,997 4,057 685 17 20,223 Internal revenue 1,639 417 3,527 4,492 10,075 Total revenue 9,106 8,414 7,584 5,177 17 10,075 20,223 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2006 restated m m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 7,168 8,102 3,908 318 18 19,514 Internal revenue 1,604 405 3,435 4,824 10,268 Total revenue 8,772 8,507 7,343 5,142 18 10,268 19,514 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2007 m m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 293 674 724 1,177 155 2,713 Specic items 172 172 Segment result 293 674 724 1,177 327 2,541 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 15 profit on disposal of associate 22 Net finance expense 94 profit before tax 2,484 Taxation 368 profit for the year 2,852 a Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 434 95 735 981 195 2,440 Intangible assets 261 71 282 127 66 807 695 166 1,017 1,108 261 3,247 Depreciation 494 128 1,102 663 149 2,536 Amortisation 181 43 96 44 20 384 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 91 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:51 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 2121689753 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2006 restated m m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 288 569 759 1,183 166 2,633 Specic items 138 138 Segment result 288 569 759 1,183 304 2,495 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 16 profit on disposal of joint venture 1 Net finance expense 472 profit before tax 2,040 Taxation 492 profit for the year 1,548 a Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 466 98 778 965 243 2,550 Intangible assets 236 55 197 73 31 592 702 153 975 1,038 274 3,142 Depreciation 555 120 1,008 770 181 2,634 Amortisation 83 27 94 30 16 250 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total As at 31 March 2007 m m m m m m Assets Segment assets 6,714 1,831 5,054 8,707 34 22,340 Associates and joint ventures 67 67 Unallocated assets 1,748 1,748 Consolidated total assets 6,714 1,831 5,054 8,707 1,849 24,155 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,128 2,351 1,426 598 31 7,534 Unallocated liabilities 12,349 12,349 Consolidated total liabilities 3,128 2,351 1,426 598 12,380 19,883 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total As at 31 March 2006 restated m m m m m m Assets Segment assets 6,253 2,517 4,959 8,200 93 21,836 Associates and joint ventures 48 48 Unallocated assets 2,816 2,816 Consolidated total assets 6,253 2,517 4,959 8,200 2,771 24,700 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,795 2,400 911 489 308 7,287 Unallocated liabilities 15,806 15,806 Consolidated total liabilities 3,795 2,400 911 489 15,498 23,093 Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, and trade receivables.
Unallocated assets include deferred and current taxation, investments, derivatives and associates and joint ventures.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and provisions.
Unallocated liabilities include current and deferred taxation, retirement benefit obligations, finance lease liabilities, corporate borrowings and related derivatives.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Segment results for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 as previously reported excluding Openreach BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 7,151 8,119 4,226 18 19,514 Internal revenue 1,481 333 5,006 6,820 Total revenue 8,632 8,452 9,232 18 6,820 19,514 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Intra-group Total Year ended 31 March 2005 m m m m m m Revenue External revenue 6,154 8,430 3,820 25 18,429 Internal revenue 1,334 268 5,275 6,877 Total revenue 7,488 8,698 9,095 25 6,877 18,429 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 363 644 1,992 366 2,633 Specic items 138 138 Segment result 363 644 1,992 504 2,495 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 16 profit on disposal of joint venture 1 Net finance expense 472 profit before tax 2,040 Taxation 492 profit for the year 1,548 a Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 466 98 1,743 243 2,550 Intangible assets 236 55 270 31 592 702 153 2,013 274 3,142 Depreciation 555 120 1,778 181 2,634 Amortisation 83 27 124 16 250 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 93 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:51 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 697075375 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Total Year ended 31 March 2005 m m m m m Results Operating profit before specic items 411 607 1,950 275 2,693 Specic items 299 299 Segment result 411 607 1,950 24 2,992 Share of post tax loss of associates and joint ventures 39 Net finance expense 599 profit before tax 2,354 Taxation 525 profit for the year 1,829 Capital additions Property, plant and equipment 450 119 1,783 219 2,571 a Intangible assets 155 51 198 36 440 605 170 1,981 255 3,011 Depreciation 513 133 1,831 217 2,694 Amortisation 37 14 83 16 150 a Additions to intangible assets exclude goodwill arising on acquisitions.
BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Other Total As at 31 March 2006 m m m m m Assets Segment assets 6,253 2,517 13,159 93 21,836 Associates and joint ventures 48 48 Unallocated assets 2,816 2,816 Consolidated total assets 6,253 2,517 13,159 2,771 24,700 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,776 2,419 1,400 308 7,287 Unallocated liabilities 15,806 15,806 Consolidated total liabilities 3,776 2,419 1,400 15,498 23,093 Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade receivables.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Secondary reporting format geographical segments 2007 2006 2005 m m m Revenue by geographic area UK 17,241 16,901 16,863 Europe, excluding the UK 2,174 1,900 1,306 Americas 711 627 190 Asia Pacic 97 86 70 Total 20,223 19,514 18,429 The creation of Openreach has not impacted the presentation of the geographical segments of the group.
The analysis of revenue by geographical area is on the basis of the country of origin of the customer invoice.
In an analysis of revenue by destination, incoming and transit international calls would be treated differently, but would not lead to a materially different geographical analysis.
Total assets Capital additions 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Total assets and capital additions by geographic area UK 17,208 16,240 2,951 2,872 Europe, excluding the UK 4,078 3,777 203 191 Americas 993 1,704 73 66 Asia Pacic 128 163 20 13 Unallocated assets 1,748 2,816 Total assets 24,155 24,700 3,247 3,142 Total assets and capital additions are allocated to geographical areas based on the location of the asset.
OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2007 2006 2005 m m m profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 222 Income from repayment works 68 74 64 Other operating income 155 151 107 Other operating income before specic items 236 227 193 Specic items note 4 3 358 Other operating income 233 227 551 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 95 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:51 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -592624616 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
OPERATING COSTS 2007 2006 2005 m m m Costs by nature Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4,099 3,910 3,645 Social security costs 388 377 319 Pension costs 643 603 540 Share based payments 93 76 50 Total staff costs 5,223 4,966 4,554 Own work capitalised 718 674 620 Net staff costs 4,505 4,292 3,934 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 2,420 2,500 2,536 Under finance leases 116 134 158 Amortisation of intangible assets 384 250 150 Payments to telecommunications operators 4,162 4,045 3,725 Other operating costs 6,159 5,887 5,426 Total operating costs before specic items 17,746 17,108 15,929 Specic items note 4 169 138 59 Total operating costs 17,915 17,246 15,988 Operating costs include the following: Early leaver costs 147 133 166 a Research and development expenditure 692 487 352 Rental costs relating to operating leases 389 413 419 Foreign currency losses 5 12 3 a Research and development expenditure includes amortisation of 314 million 2006: 161 million, 2005: 95 million in respect of internally developed computer software.
SPECIFIC ITEMS The group separately identies and discloses significant one-off or unusual items termed specic items.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and we believe assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
A denition of specic items is provided in the accounting policies section on page 78.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Other operating income a Net loss on sale of group undertakings 5 b profit on sale of non current asset investments 2 358 3 358 Operating costs c Property rationalisation costs 64 68 59 d Creation of Openreach 30 70 e Write off of circuit inventory and other working capital balances 65 f Costs associated with settlement of open tax years 10 169 138 59 Finance income f Interest on settlement of open tax years 139 Share of results of associates and joint ventures g Impairment of assets in joint ventures 25 h profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures 22 1 Net specic items charge credit before tax 11 137 274 f Tax credit in respect of settlement of open tax years 938 Tax credit on specic items 41 41 16 Net specic items credit charge after tax 968 96 290 a In the current year the group disposed of some non-core businesses.
The loss on disposal relates primarily to the disposal of the groups satellite broadcast service assets 7 million.
b In the current year the group disposed of some non-core investments, resulting in a profit of 2 million.
In the 2005 financial year the group recognised a profit on disposal of 358 million comprising 236 million from the sale of the groups 15.8% interest in Eutelsat SA, 46 million from sale of the 4% interest in Intelsat, 38 million from the sale of the 11.9% interest in Starhub Pte Ltd and other gains of 38 million.
c In the current year 64 million 2006: 68 million, 2005: 59 million of property rationalisation charges were recognised in relation to the groups provincial office portfolio.
d In the current year a provision of 30 million 2006: 70 million, 2005: nil was recognised for the estimated incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to set up Openreach and meet the requirements of the Undertakings.
e In the current year the group recorded a charge of 65 million as a result of a review of circuit inventory and other working capital balances arising before 31 March 2006. f In the current year, the group agreed settlement of substantially all open UK tax matters relating to the ten tax years up to and including 2004 05 with HM Revenue and Customs.
Specific items therefore include a net credit of 1,067 million, which represents those elements of the tax charges previously recognised that were in excess of the final agreed liability of 938 million: interest income of 139 million on the repayment: and operating costs of 10 million, representing the costs associated with reaching the agreement.
g In the 2005 financial year the group incurred an impairment charge of 25 million representing its share of a write down of Albacoms assets prior to Albacom becoming a subsidiary.
h In the current year the group disposed of 6% of its equity interest in Tech Mahindra Limited, an associated undertaking.
The resulting profit on disposal was 22 million.
The groups shareholding at 31 March 2007 was 35%.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE EXPENSE a 2007 2006 2005 m m m Finance expense b Interest on listed bonds, debentures and notes 623 831 963 Interest on finance leases 44 62 68 Interest on other borrowings 58 20 19 Unwinding of discount on provisions 3 33 c Net charge on financial instruments in a fair value hedge d Net foreign exchange on items in hedging relationships Fair value movements on derivatives not in a designated hedge relationship 4 8 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,872 1,816 1,720 Total finance expense 2,604 2,740 2,773 a The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 April 2005.
For the 2005 financial year the groups previous accounting policies have therefore been applied in calculating the recognition and measurement basis for finance expense see accounting policies.
b Includes a net charge of 67 million 2006: 41 million relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
c Includes a net credit of 70 million 2006: net charge of 71 million relating to fair value movements arising on hedged items and a net charge of 70 million 2006: net credit of 71 million relating to fair value movements arising on derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
d Includes a net credit of 420 million 2006: net charge of 330 million relating to foreign exchange movements on hedged loans and borrowings and a net charge of 420 million 2006: net credit of 330 million relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 97 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:53 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 595290980 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE EXPENSE continued a 2007 2006 2005 m m m Finance income b Income from listed investments 7 44 47 b, c, d Other interest and similar income 211 154 209 e Net foreign exchange on items in hedging relationships Expected return on pension scheme assets 2,292 2,070 1,918 Total finance income 2,510 2,268 2,174 Net finance expense 94 472 599 a The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 April 2005.
For the 2005 financial year the groups previous accounting policies have therefore been applied in calculating the recognition and measurement basis for finance income see accounting policies.
b Income from listed investments and other interest and similar income includes 45 million 2006: 37 million relating to gains on held for trading investments.
c On 11 August 2005, the group exercised its option to require early redemption of its US dollar convertible 2008 bond.
Bondholders had the option to take redemption proceeds in the form of cash or shares in the groups interest in LG Telecom.
The majority of bondholders exercised their option to take the redemption proceeds in the form of LG Telecom shares.
Other interest in 2006 includes a net bond redemption gain of 27 million.
This reflects the write off of LG Telecom shares of 121 million and the associated release from the available-for-sale reserve of 35 million: the write off of the bond and transaction costs of 87 million and the associated option liability of 17 million: and the release from the translation reserve of 9 million credit relating to foreign exchange movements on the investment in LG Telecom to the date of disposal.
d The 2007 financial year includes 139 million relating to interest on settlement of open tax matters disclosed as a specific item see note 4. e Includes a net charge of 123 million 2006: net credit 85 million relating to foreign exchange movements on hedged investments and a net credit of 123 million 2006: net charge 85 million relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
TAXATION 2007 2006 2005 m m m Analysis of taxation credit expense for the year United Kingdom: Corporation tax at 30% 2006 and 2005: 30% 256 404 542 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1,096 69 4 Non-UK taxation: Current 25 12 4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 38 1 3 Total current tax credit expense 777 348 539 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 367 155 15 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 42 11 1 Total deferred tax expense credit 409 144 14 Total taxation credit expense in the income statement 368 492 525 98 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:53 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1322204682 6.
TAXATION continued Factors affecting taxation credit expense The taxation credit expense on the profit for the year differs from the amount computed by applying the corporation tax rate to the profit before taxation as a result of the following factors: 2007 2006 2005 m % m % m % profit before taxation 2,484 2,040 2,354 Notional taxation expense at UK rate of 30% 2006 and 2005: 30% 745 30.0 612 30.0 706 30.0 Effects of: Non deductible depreciation and amortisation 4 0.1 8 0.4 6 0.2 Non deductible non UK losses 9 0.4 29 1.4 38 1.6 Higher lower taxes on non UK profits 11 0.4 1 14 0.6 Lower taxes on gain on disposal of non current investments and group undertakings 2 0.1 107 4.5 Other deferred tax assets not recognised 25 1.2 Associates and joint ventures 5 0.2 5 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 78 3.2 79 3.9 2 0.1 Tax credit in respect of settlement of open tax years 938 37.8 Other 114 4.5 47 2.4 106 4.5 Total taxation credit expense and effective tax rate 368 14.9 492 24.1 525 22.3 Specic items 979 39.4 41 0.4 16 3.7 Total taxation expense before specic items and effective tax rate 611 24.5 533 24.5 541 26.0 2007 2006 2005 m m m Tax on items taken directly to equity Current tax charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 7 Deferred tax charge credit relating to losses on cash ow hedges 62 45 Deferred tax charge relating to ineffective hedges 9 Deferred tax charge on actuarial gain relating to retirement benefit obligations 424 629 72 Total taxation on items taken to statement of recognised income and expense 486 593 79 Current tax credit relating to share based payments 12 Deferred tax credit relating to share based payments 70 5 Total taxation on items taken directly to equity 404 588 79 7.
DIVIDENDS 2007 2006 2005 pence pence pence 2007 2006 2005 per share per share per share m m m Final paid in respect of the prior year 7.60 6.50 5.30 631 551 454 Interim paid in respect of the current year 5.10 4.30 3.90 422 361 332 12.70 10.80 9.20 1,053 912 786 The directors are proposing that a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007 of 10.0 pence per share will be paid to shareholders on 17 September 2007, taking the full year proposed dividend in respect of the 2007 financial year to 15.1 pence 2006: 11.9 pence, 2005: 10.4 pence.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore the liability of 825 million 2006: 631 million has not been included in these financial statements.
The proposed dividend will be payable to all shareholders on the Register of Members on 24 August 2007.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 99 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:56 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1996197206 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue after deducting the groups shares held by employee share ownership trusts and treasury shares.
In calculating the diluted earnings per share, share options outstanding and other potential ordinary shares have been taken into account where the impact of these is dilutive.
Options over 12 million shares 2006: 52 million shares, 2005: 207 million shares were excluded from the calculation of the total diluted number of shares as the impact of these is anti-dilutive.
The weighted average number of shares in the years were: 2007 2006 2005 millions of millions of millions of shares shares shares Basic 8,293 8,422 8,524 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options and shares held in trust 186 115 57 Total diluted 8,479 8,537 8,581 profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent m 2,850 1,547 1,830 Basic earnings per share pence 34.4p 18.4p 21.5p Diluted earnings per share pence 33.6p 18.1p 21.3p Basic earnings per share before specic items, and the per share impact of individual specic items, is as follows: 2007 2006 2005 pence 2007 pence 2006 pence 2005 per share m per share m per share m Per share impact of specic items: Net loss on sale of group undertakings 5 profit on sale of non current asset investments 2 4.2 358 Property rationalisation costs 0.8 64 0.8 68 0.7 59 Creation of Openreach 0.4 30 0.8 70 Write off of circuit inventory and other working capital balances 0.8 65 Costs associated with settlement of open tax years 0.1 10 Interest on settlement of open tax years 1.7 139 profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures 0.3 22 1 Impairment of assets in joint ventures 0.3 25 Tax credit in respect of settlement of open tax years 11.3 938 Tax credit on specic items 0.5 41 0.5 41 0.2 16 Basic earnings loss per share profit loss for the year attributable to specic items 11.7 968 1.1 96 3.4 290 Basic earnings per share profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 34.4 2,850 18.4 1,547 21.5 1,830 Adjustment: Basic earnings loss per share profit loss for the financial year attributable to specic items 11.7 968 1.1 96 3.4 290 Basic earnings per share profit for the year before specic items 22.7 1,882 19.5 1,643 18.1 1,540 Diluted earnings per share profit for the year 33.6 2,850 18.1 1,547 21.3 1,830 Adjustment: Diluted earnings loss per share profit loss for the financial year attributable to specic items 11.4 968 1.1 96 3.4 290 Diluted earnings per share profit for the year before specic items 22.2 1,882 19.2 1,643 17.9 1,540 100 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:56 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -720513554 9.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank and in hand 568 511 Cash equivalents Listed cash equivalents Euro treasury bills 10 8 Unlisted cash equivalents US corporate debt securities 422 UK deposits 417 914 European deposits 57 70 US deposits 23 40 Total cash equivalents 507 1,454 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,075 1,965 Bank overdrafts 51 181 Cash and cash equivalents per the cash ow statement 1,024 1,784 The group has cross undertaking guarantee facilities across certain bank accounts which allow a legally enforceable right of set off of the relevant cash and overdraft balances on bank accounts included within each scheme.
Included within overdrafts at 31 March 2007 were balances of 49 million 2006: 171 million which had a legally enforceable right of set off against cash balances of 117 million 2006: 209 million.
These balances have not been netted above as settlement is not intended to take place simultaneously or on a net basis.
NET DEBT Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured at the net proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
For the purpose of this analysis current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Currency denominated balances within net debt are translated to sterling at swapped rates where hedged.
This denition of net debt measures balances at the expected value of future cash ows due to arise on maturity of financial instruments and removes the balance sheet adjustments made from the re-measurement of hedged risks under fair value hedges and the use of the amortised cost method as required by IAS 39.
In addition, the gross balances are adjusted to take account of netting arrangements amounting to 49 million 2006: 171 million.
Net debt is a non GAAP measure since it is not dened in IFRSs but it is a key indicator used by management in order to assess operational performance and balance sheet strength.
2007 2006 m m Analysis of net debt Loans and other borrowings current and non current 8,590 9,935 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 1,075 1,965 Current asset investments 3 365 7,512 7,605 Adjustments: To retranslate currency denominated balances at swapped rates where hedged 577 121 To recognise borrowings and investments at net proceeds and unamortised discount 175 192 Net debt 7,914 7,534 After allocating the element of the adjustments which impacts loans and other borrowings as dened above, gross debt at 31 March 2007 was 8,943 million 2006: 9,685 million.
2007 2006 m m Reconciliation of movement in net debt Net debt at 1 April 7,534 7,893 Increase decrease in net debt resulting from cash ows 219 199 Net debt assumed or issued on acquisitions 11 Currency movements 124 75 Other non-cash movements 26 85 Net debt at 31 March 7,914 7,534 Non-cash transactions Other non-cash movements in 2006 includes 87 million relating to the early redemption of the groups US dollar convertible bond for shares in LG Telecom.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 101 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:56 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1944204560 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
FREE CASH FLOW The components of free cash ow, which is a non GAAP measure, are presented in the table below and reconciled to net cash inow from operating activities, the most directly comparable IFRS measure.
Free cash ow is not dened in IFRSs but is a key indicator used by management to measure operational performance.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Cash generated from operations before taxation 5,245 5,777 5,906 Income taxes paid, net of repayments 35 390 332 Net cash inow from operating activities 5,210 5,387 5,574 Included in cash ows from investing activities Net purchase of property, plant and equipment, computer software and licences 3,209 2,874 2,945 Net purchase sale of non current financial assets 3 1 537 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 6 12 Interest received 147 185 374 Included in cash ows from nancing activities Interest paid 797 1,086 1,260 Free cash ow 1,354 1,612 2,282 12.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Brands, customer Telecommunication lists, and Computer a Goodwill licences and other relationships software Total m m m m m At 1 April 2005 404 197 84 1,160 1,845 Additions 592 592 Disposals and adjustments 8 8 Exchange differences 18 8 8 34 Acquisitions through business combinations 121 1 22 16 160 At 1 April 2006 543 206 106 1,784 2,639 Additions 807 807 Disposals and adjustments 15 104 119 Exchange differences 20 10 12 42 Acquisitions through business combinations 296 4 12 12 324 At 31 March 2007 819 185 118 2,487 3,609 Amortisation At 1 April 2005 51 415 466 Charge for the year 9 11 230 250 Acquisitions 15 15 Disposals and adjustments 8 8 Exchange differences 2 6 8 At 1 April 2006 62 11 658 731 Charge for the year 11 13 360 384 Acquisitions 1 7 8 Disposals and adjustments 8 73 81 Exchange differences 7 10 17 At 31 March 2007 59 24 942 1,025 Carrying amount At 31 March 2007 819 126 94 1,545 2,584 At 31 March 2006 543 144 95 1,126 1,908 a Includes additions in 2007 of 741 million 2006: 544 million in respect of internally developed computer software.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Impairment tests of goodwill During the 2007 financial year the group made a number of acquisitions.
INS, Counterpane and I3IT have been fully integrated into BT Global Services, which is considered to be the relevant cash generating unit CGU.
The group also acquired dabs.
com and PlusNet, for which the relevant CGUs are considered to be the Enterprises and Consumer divisions of BT Retail, respectively.
In addition, the group reorganised its structure with effect from 1 April 2006 such that the Irish operations were transferred from BT Global Services to BT Retail and BT Ireland now also represents a separate CGU.
For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the group therefore had four relevant CGUs at 31 March 2007.
These are the smallest identiable groups of assets that generate cash inows that have goodwill and are largely independent of the cash inows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is allocated to the groups CGUs as follows: BT Retail BT Global Services Consumer Enterprises BT Ireland Total m m m m m At 1 April 2005 360 37 7 404 Acquisition through business combinations 111 1 9 121 Exchange differences 17 1 18 At 1 April 2006 488 39 16 543 Acquisition through business combinations 223 57 16 296 Exchange differences 20 20 At 31 March 2007 691 57 55 16 819 The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value in use calculations.
These are determined using cash ow projections derived from financial budgets approved by the board covering a four year period.
They reect managements expectation of revenue growth, operating costs and margin for each CGU based on past experience.
Cash ows beyond the four year period have been extrapolated using estimated terminal growth rates ranging from 0% to 2%.
These rates have been determined with regard to projected growth rates for the specic markets in which the CGU participates and are not considered to exceed the long term average growth rates for those markets.
Discount rates applied to the cash ow forecasts are derived from the groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital for regulated and non-regulated products.
The discount rates applied range from 10.0% to 11.4%.
The forecasts are most sensitive to changes in projected revenue growth rates in the first four years of the forecast period.
However there is significant headroom and based on the sensitivity analysis performed we have concluded that no reasonably possible changes in the base case assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 103 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:57 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1810151087 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Network Assets in Land and infrastructure course of a, b b c buildings and equipment Other construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2005 1,065 34,957 2,189 763 38,974 Additions 17 263 247 2,038 2,565 Acquisition through business combinations 23 265 33 2 323 Transfers 50 1,802 15 1,867 Exchange differences 4 71 14 89 Disposals and adjustments 39 1,447 310 41 1,837 At 31 March 2006 1,120 35,911 2,188 895 40,114 Additions 19 296 210 1,936 2,461 Acquisition through business combinations 4 13 11 28 Transfers 57 1,767 9 1,833 Exchange differences 10 107 20 4 141 Disposals and adjustments 75 1,031 178 19 1,265 At 31 March 2007 1,115 36,849 2,220 1,013 41,197 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2005 371 21,865 1,544 23,780 Charge for the year 58 2,353 223 2,634 Acquisition through business combinations 14 200 28 242 Exchange differences 1 44 10 55 Disposals and adjustments 32 1,479 251 1,762 At 31 March 2006 412 22,983 1,554 24,949 Charge for the year 49 2,307 180 2,536 Acquisition through business combinations 2 7 7 16 Exchange differences 5 64 14 83 Disposals and adjustments 32 1,000 150 1,182 At 31 March 2007 426 24,233 1,577 26,236 Carrying amount At 31 March 2007 689 12,616 643 1,013 14,961 Engineering stores 36 36 Total at 31 March 2007 689 12,616 643 1,049 14,997 At 31 March 2006 708 12,928 634 895 15,165 Engineering stores 57 57 Total at 31 March 2006 708 12,928 634 952 15,222 2007 2006 m m a The carrying amount of land and buildings, including leasehold improvements, comprised: Freehold 254 311 Long leases over 50 years unexpired 131 136 Short leases 304 261 Total land and buildings 689 708 b The carrying amount of the groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of 353 million 2006: 460 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation charge on those assets for the year ended 31 March 2007 was 116 million 2006: 134 million.
c Other mainly comprises motor vehicles and computers.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued 2007 2006 m m Additions to property, plant and equipment comprised: Land and buildings 61 68 Network infrastructure and equipment Transmission equipment 1,209 1,429 Exchange equipment 118 80 Other network equipment 854 727 Other Computers and ofce equipment 149 138 Motor vehicles and other 70 123 Total additions to property, plant and equipment 2,461 2,565 Decrease in engineering stores 21 15 Total additions 2,440 2,550 14.
INVESTMENTS 2007 2006 m m Non current assets Available-for-sale 14 9 Loans and receivables 13 8 27 17 Current assets Available-for-sale 2 Held for trading 348 Loans and receivables 3 15 3 365 2007 2006 m m Available-for-sale At 1 April 11 1,156 Additions 7 195 Transfer from associates and joint ventures 86 Revaluation surplus transfer to equity 35 Disposals 4 1,461 At 31 March 14 11 Less: Non current available-for-sale assets 14 9 Current available-for-sale assets 2 Available-for-sale financial assets consist mainly of listed corporate debt securities and notes denominated in sterling.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 105 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:18:58 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1751184161 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14.
INVESTMENTS continued 2007 2006 m m Held for trading US Government debt securities 51 US Corporate debt securities 297 348 The investments included above represent listed short term debt securities with quoted market prices.
The group has not designated any financial assets that are not classied as held for trading as financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivable financial assets mainly consist of term deposits, xed term loans and other xed term debt securities mainly denominated in sterling with a xed coupon and in certain instances options for early redemption.
ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES The groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of its interest in associates and joint ventures, at 31 March, was as follows: 2007 2006 Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total m m m m m m Non current assets 16 3 19 20 3 23 Current assets 74 6 80 46 1 47 Current liabilities 29 3 32 21 1 22 Share of net assets 61 6 67 45 3 48 Revenue 137 14 151 74 113 187 Expenses 113 21 134 59 108 167 Taxation 2 2 1 3 4 Share of post tax results 22 7 15 14 2 16 Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 April 2005 28 74 102 Share of post tax profit 13 3 16 Acquisitions 268 Disposals 86 86 Translation differences and other 268 At 1 April 2006 45 3 48 Share of post tax profit loss 22 7 15 Dividends received 5 1 6 Acquisitions 347 Disposals 1 1 Translation differences and other 3 7 4 At 31 March 2007 61 6 67 During the 2007 financial year, the group disposed of 6% of its equity interest in its associate Tech Mahindra, resulting in a profit on disposal of 22 million.
At 31 March 2007, the fair value of the groups investments in associates and joint ventures for which published price quotations are available was 702 million 2006: nil.
During the 2006 financial year, the LG Telecom joint venture carrying value 86 million, was transferred to available-for-sale assets in connection with the early redemption of the groups US dollar convertible 2008 bond.
Details of the groups principal associate at 31 March 2007 are set out on page 148.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2007 2006 m m Current Trade receivables 1,592 1,662 Prepayments 922 686 Accrued income 1,284 1,254 Other debtors 275 292 4,073 3,894 Trade receivables are stated after deducting 280 million 2006: 315 million for doubtful debts.
The amount charged to the income statement for doubtful debts for the year ended 31 March 2007 was 117 million 2006: 170 million, 2005: 150 million.
2007 2006 m m Non current a Other assets 523 305 a Represents costs relating to the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of long term networked IT services contracts.
LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS 2007 2006 m m a b US dollar 9.125% 2006: 8.875% notes 2030 minimum 8.625% 1,398 1,580 Sterling 5.75% bonds 2028 608 607 Sterling 3.5% indexed linked notes 2025 301 291 Sterling 8.625% bonds 2020 297 297 a Sterling 8.0% 2006: 7.75% notes 2016 minimum 7.5% 712 709 a b Euro 7.375% 2006: 7.125% notes 2011 minimum 6.875% 768 790 a b US dollar 8.625% 2006: 8.375% notes 2010 minimum 8.125% 1,515 1,713 c US dollar 8.765% bonds 2009 108 120 c US dollar 7% notes 2007 542 624 a Sterling 7.375% notes 2006 minimum 7.125% 409 Total listed bonds, debentures and notes 6,249 7,140 Finance leases 567 845 b, d Commercial paper 794 472 Sterling bank loans due 2007-2009 average effective interest rate 10.4% 2006: 9.7% 147 240 Sterling oating rate note 2007-2009 average effective interest rate 4.3% 2006: 4.1% 42 49 Sterling oating rate loan 2007-2009 average effective interest rate 5.5% 2006: 4.6% 724 1,003 Preference shares 5 Other loans 2007-2010 16 Bank overdrafts of which 49 million 2006: 171 million had a legally enforceable right of set off see note 9 51 181 Total other loans and borrowings 1,774 1,950 Total loans and other borrowings 8,590 9,935 a The interest rate payable on these notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moodys or Standard and Poors S&P reduces the rating ascribed to the groups senior unsecured debt below A3 in the case of Moodys or below A minus in the case of S&P.
In this event, the interest rate payable on the notes and the spread applicable to the floating notes will be increased by 0.25% for each ratings category adjustment by each rating agency.
In addition, if Moodys or S&P subsequently increase the ratings ascribed to the groups senior unsecured debt, then the interest rate then payable on notes and the spread applicable to the floating notes will be decreased by 0.25% for each rating category upgrade by each rating agency, but in no event will the interest rate be reduced below the minimum interest rate reflected in the above table.
b Hedged in a designated cash flow hedge.
c Hedged in a designated cash flow and fair value hedge.
d Commercial paper is denominated in sterling 2007: 25 million, 2006: 35 million, US dollar 2007: nil, 2006: 66 million and euro 2007: 769 million, 2006: 371 million.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 107 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:00 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -853906655 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17.
LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS continued The interest rates payable on loans and borrowings disclosed above reect the coupons on underlying issued loans and borrowings and not the interest rates achieved through applying associated currency and interest rate swaps in hedge arrangements.
The carrying values disclosed above for the current year reect balances at amortised cost adjusted for deferred and current fair value adjustments to the relevant loans or borrowings hedged risk in a fair value hedge.
This does not reect the final principal repayment that will arise after taking account of the relevant derivatives in hedging relationships which is reected in the table below.
Apart from finance leases all borrowings as at 31 March 2007 and 2006 are unsecured.
2007 2006 Principal Principal Carrying Effect of hedging repayments Carrying Effect of hedging repayments a a amount and interest at hedged rates amount and interest at hedged rates m m m m m m Repayments fall due as follows: Within one year, or on demand 2,203 132 2,071 1,940 190 1,750 Between one and two years 330 1 331 1,182 3 1,179 Between two and three years 340 21 361 337 337 Between three and four years 2,250 271 2,521 369 8 377 Between four and five years 12 12 2,467 55 2,522 After five years 3,454 242 3,696 3,628 63 3,691 Total due for repayment after more than one year 6,386 535 6,921 7,983 123 8,106 Total repayments 8,589 403 8,992 9,923 67 9,856 Fair value adjustments for hedged risk 1 12 Total loans and other borrowings 8,590 9,935 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the impact of the currency element of derivatives and adjusts the repayments to exclude interest recognised in the carrying amount.
Repayment of outstanding Minimum lease payments lease obligations 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 329 361 303 318 In the second to fifth years inclusive 123 391 56 316 After five years 415 430 208 211 867 1,182 567 845 Less: future finance charges 300 337 Total finance lease obligations 567 845 567 845 The groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash ow hedge 15 234 405 Other interest rate swaps 11 240 49 304 Cross currency swaps cash ow hedge 10 755 20 417 Cross currency swaps fair value hedge 78 12 16 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedge 16 3 75 Other forward foreign exchange contracts 3 Embedded derivatives options 2 52 1,310 88 1,152 Analysed as: Current 27 318 69 332 Non current 25 992 19 820 52 1,310 88 1,152 Details of hedges in which the derivative financial instruments are utilised are disclosed in note 33.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2007 2006 m m Current Trade payables 3,717 3,466 Other taxation and social security 473 521 Other creditors 939 945 Accrued expenses 519 488 Deferred income 1,071 1,120 6,719 6,540 2007 2006 m m Non current Other creditors 553 445 Deferred income 37 40 590 485 Non current payables relate to operating lease liabilities and deferred gains on a prior period sale and finance leaseback transaction.
PROVISIONS Property Other a b provisions provisions Total m m m At 1 April 2006 226 105 331 c Charged to the income statement 85 30 115 Unwind of discount 3 3 Utilised in the year 74 50 124 At 31 March 2007 240 85 325 2007 2006 m m Analysed as: Current 100 70 Non current 225 261 325 331 a Property provisions comprise amounts provided for obligations to complete nearly finished new properties and remedial work to be undertaken on properties and the onerous lease provision on rationalisation of the groups property portfolio.
The provisions will be utilised over the remaining lease periods, which range from 1 to 24 years.
b Other provisions include amounts provided for legal or constructive obligations arising from insurance claims and litigation which will be utilised as the obligations are settled.
Also included are amounts provided for the estimated incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to set up Openreach, which will be utilised over one year.
c Includes specific items of 64 million for property rationalisation costs and 30 million relating to the estimated incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to set up Openreach and meet the requirements of the Undertakings, see note 4.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 109 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:01 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -333427392 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21.
DEFERRED TAXATION Retirement Excess capital benefit Share based allowances obligations payments Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2005 1,968 1,434 7 518 9 Charge credit to income statement 16 41 13 132 144 Charge credit to equity 629 5 36 588 At 31 March 2006 1,952 764 25 422 741 Deferred tax asset 764 764 Deferred tax liability 1,952 25 422 1,505 At 31 March 2006 1,952 764 25 422 741 Charge credit to income statement 144 223 33 75 409 Charge credit to equity 424 70 62 416 At 31 March 2007 2,096 117 128 285 1,566 Deferred tax asset 117 117 Deferred tax liability 2,096 128 285 1,683 At 31 March 2007 2,096 117 128 285 1,566 At 31 March 2007, 117 million 2006: 764 million of the deferred tax asset of 117 million 2006: 764 million is expected to be recovered after more than twelve months.
At 31 March 2007, 1,683 million 2006: 1,505 million of the deferred tax liability of 1,683 million 2006: 1,505 million is expected to be settled after more than twelve months.
At 31 March 2007 the group had operating losses, capital losses and other temporary differences carried forward in respect of which no deferred tax assets were recognised amounting to 21.1 billion 2006: 21.8 billion.
The groups capital losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date restrictions.
The expiry date of operating losses carried forward is dependent upon the tax law of the various territories in which the losses arise.
A summary of expiry dates for losses in respect of which restrictions apply is set out below: 2007 Expiry of Territory m losses Restricted losses: Americas 218 2012-2027 Europe 1,226 2007-2022 Total restricted losses 1,444 Unrestricted losses: Operating losses 1,026 No expiry Capital losses 17,595 No expiry Other 1,044 No expiry Total unrestricted losses 19,665 Total 21,109 At the balance sheet date, the undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries was 9.3 billion 2006: 8.6 billion.
No deferred tax liabilities have been recognised in respect of those unremitted earnings because the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised are insignicant.
MINORITY INTERESTS 2007 2006 m m At 1 April 52 50 Share of profits 2 1 Disposal 15 Minority share of dividend paid 3 Exchange adjustments 2 1 At 31 March 34 52 23.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY 2007 2006 2005 m m m Total equity at 1 April 1,607 95 1,039 Transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 209 profit for the year 2,850 1,548 1,829 Dividends 1,053 912 786 Share based payments 71 65 20 Issue of shares 24 41 Net purchase of treasury shares 284 344 176 Exchange differences on translation 93 24 27 Actuarial gains 1,409 2,122 294 Net fair value movements on cash ow hedges 163 200 Tax on items taken directly to equity 404 588 79 Minority interest 18 24 Net movement in equity 2,665 1,512 1,134 Total equity at 31 March 4,272 1,607 95 24.
SHARE CAPITAL a b Share capital Share premium m m Balances at 31 March 2005 432 3 Arising on share issues 4 Balances at 31 March 2006 432 7 Arising on share issues 24 Balances at 31 March 2007 432 31 a The authorised share capital of the company throughout the years ended 31 March 2007 and 2006 was 13,463 million representing 269,260,253,468 ordinary shares of 5p each.
The allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary share capital of the company at 31 March 2007 was 432 million 2006: 432 million, representing 8,640,654,852 ordinary shares of 5p each 2006: 8,635,377,801.
Of the authorised but unissued share capital at 31 March 2007, 21 million ordinary shares 2006: 26 million were reserved to meet options granted under employee share option schemes.
b The share premium account, representing the premium on allotment of shares is not available for distribution.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 111 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:01 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1411215642 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
OTHER RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS Merger Total Treasury Cash ow Available-for Translation and other other Retained a b c d e shares reservesale reserve reserve reserves reserves earnings m m m m m m m At 1 April 2004 80 998 918 2,439 profit for the year 1,829 Foreign exchange adjustments 27 27 Share based payments 20 Dividends 786 Net purchase of treasury shares 176 176 Actuarial gain 294 Tax on items taken directly to equity 7 7 72 At 31 March 2005 256 20 998 762 1,154 f Transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 77 77 286 At 1 April 2005 256 77 20 998 839 1,440 profit for the year 1,548 Foreign exchange adjustments 53 53 Share based payments 65 Dividends 912 Net purchase of treasury shares 344 344 Actuarial gain 2,122 Net fair value gains on cash ow hedges 4 4 Gains on available-for-sale investments 35 35 Fair value loss on net investment hedge 20 20 Recognised in income and expense in the year 204 35 9 248 Tax on items taken directly to equity 45 45 633 At 1 April 2006 600 78 44 998 364 750 profit for the year 2,850 Foreign exchange adjustments 93 93 Share based payments 71 Dividends 1,053 Net purchase of treasury shares 284 284 Actuarial gain 1,409 Net fair value losses on cash ow hedges 201 201 Recognised in income and expense in the year 364 364 Tax on items taken directly to equity 62 62 342 At 31 March 2007 884 23 49 998 88 3,685 a During the year ended 31 March 2007 the company repurchased 147,550,000 2006: 165,772,145, 2005: 101,280,000 of its own shares of 5p each representing 2% of the called-up share capital, for consideration including transaction costs of 404 million 2006: 365 million, 2005: 195 million.
In addition, 66,719,600 shares 2006: 10,221,961, 2005: 11,131,503 were issued from treasury to satisfy obligations under employee share schemes at a cost of 120 million 2006: 21 million, 2005: 19 million.
At 31 March 2007, 370,877,631 shares 2006: 290,047,231 shares with an aggregate nominal value of 19 million are held as treasury shares at cost.
b The cash flow reserve is used to record the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
c The available-for-sale reserve is used to record the cumulative fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets.
The cumulative gains and losses are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the assets.
The gross gain in the period amounted to nil 2006: 35 million.
d The translation reserve is used to record cumulative translation differences on the assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
The cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
e The merger reserve arose on the group reorganisation that occurred in November 2001 and represents the difference between the nominal value of shares in the new parent company, BT Group plc, and the share capital, share premium and capital redemption reserve of the prior parent company, British Telecommunications plc.
Other reserves included within this caption relate primarily to unrealised gains and losses on the transfer of assets and group undertakings to a joint venture.
f The total impact on reserves of the IAS 32 and IAS 39 transitional adjustment is a charge of 209 million.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Amounts paid to the groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 29.
There were a number of transactions during the year between the company and its subsidiary undertakings, which are eliminated on consolidation and therefore not disclosed.
Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Operating Committee which include the companys executive directors.
It is this committee which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the group.
Key management personnel compensation, is shown in the table below: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Salaries and short-term benets 6.5 5.8 5.2 Post employment benets 1.4 1.9 1.1 Share based payments 3.2 2.6 1.8 11.1 10.3 8.1 More detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Report on directors remuneration, which forms part of the financial statements.
During the 2007 financial year, the group purchased services in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis from its associate Tech Mahindra Limited.
The value of services purchased was 178 million 2006: 105 million and the amounts outstanding and payable for services at 31 March 2007 was 97 million 2006: 59 million.
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred was: 2007 2006 m m Property, plant and equipment and software 779 754 2007 2006 Future minimum operating lease payments for the group were as follows: m m Payable in the year ending 31 March: 2007 474 2008 479 449 2009 449 439 2010 433 429 2011 421 414 2012 408 402 Thereafter 7,367 7,175 Total future minimum operating lease payments 9,557 9,782 Operating lease commitments were mainly in respect of land and buildings.
Leases have an average term of 24 years and rentals are xed for an average of 24 years.
At 31 March 2007, other than disclosed below, there were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of the groups business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The group has insurance cover to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise, the group generally carries its own risks.
The group has provided guarantees relating to certain leases entered into by O2 UK Limited prior to its demerger with O2 on 19 November 2001.
O2 plc has given BT a counterindemnity for these guarantees.
The maximum likely exposure is US$82 million 2006: US$72 million, approximately 39 million 2006: 42 million as at 31 March 2007, although this could increase by a further US$486 million 2006: US$545 million, approximately 248 million 2006: 314 million in the event of credit default in respect of amounts used to defease future lease obligations.
The guarantee lasts until O2 UK Limited has discharged all its obligations, which is expected to be when the lease ends on 30 January 2017.
The company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of the group.
There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendents were also acquitted.
The Public Prosecutor is in the process of appealing the courts decision.
If the appeal is successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such claim.
Following the European Commissions formal investigation into the way the UK government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston Communications, and whether the government complied with European Community treaty rules on state aid, the Commission concluded that no such state aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision has now been appealed, but the company continues to believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless, and that the appeal will not succeed.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 113 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:02 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 2056664828 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28.
ACQUISITIONS INS PlusNet Other Total Year ended 31 March 2007 m m m m Fair value of consideration 133 66 144 343 Less: fair value of net assets acquired 12 9 40 61 Goodwill arising 121 57 104 282 Consideration: Cash 131 64 94 289 Deferred consideration 2 2 50 54 Total 133 66 144 343 The outow of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Cash consideration 131 64 94 289 Less: cash acquired 2 5 14 21 129 59 80 268 Atlanet Radianz Other Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m Fair value of consideration 65 143 69 277 a Less: fair value of net assets acquired 21 104 17 142 a Goodwill arising 44 39 52 135 Consideration: Cash 58 120 52 230 Deferred consideration 7 17 24 Debt assumed 23 23 Total 65 143 69 277 The outow of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Cash consideration 58 115 52 225 Less: cash acquired 5441160 53 71 41 165 a The fair value of net assets acquired through the acquisition of Atlanet have been restated in the current financial year.
For further details see Atlanet acquisition note.
Year ended 31 March 2007 International Network Services On 25 February 2007, BT acquired 100% of the issued share capital of International Network Services Inc INS for a total consideration of 133 million.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book and fair value m Intangible assets 3 Property, plant and equipment 1 Receivables 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Payables 12 Net assets acquired 12 Goodwill 121 Total consideration 133 114 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:02 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 154613174 28.
ACQUISITIONS continued The fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of INS are provisional due to the timing of the transaction and will be nalised during the 2008 financial year, which will include the identication and valuation of any intangible assets acquired through the transaction.
Accordingly, the value of any acquired intangible assets are aggregated within goodwill.
From the date of acquisition, INS has contributed to the groups results revenue of 5 million and a net loss of 1 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2006, the groups revenue would have been higher by 63 million, and profit for the year would have been lower by 5 million 2006: 74 million higher and 5 million lower, respectively.
PlusNet On 16 November 2006, the group announced an offer to acquire 100% of the share capital of PlusNet plc.
The offer became unconditional on 23 January 2007 once sufficient acceptances had been received from shareholders and all regulatory clearances were obtained.
23 January 2007 is therefore considered to be the date of acquisition.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book and fair value m Intangible assets 5 Property, plant and equipment 5 Receivables 1 Cash and cash equivalents 5 Payables 7 Net assets acquired 9 Goodwill 57 Total consideration 66 The fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of PlusNet are provisional due to the timing of the transaction and will be nalised during the 2008 financial year, which will include the identication and valuation of any intangible assets acquired through the transaction.
From the date of acquisition, PlusNet has contributed to the groups results revenue of 7 million and a net income of nil.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2006, the groups revenue would have been higher by 7 million, and profit for the year would have been higher by 3 million 2006: 9 million higher and 1 million higher, respectively.
Other acquisitions During the year ended 31 March 2007, the group acquired a number of other smaller subsidiary undertakings including principally dabs.
com plc, I3IT Limited and Counterpane LLC.
The combined net assets and goodwill arising in respect of these acquisitions were as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 1212 Property, plant and equipment 7 1 6 Inventory 4 4 Receivables 21 21 Cash and cash equivalents 14 14 Payables 29 29 Minority interest 12 12 Net assets acquired 29 11 40 Goodwill 104 Total consideration 144 The fair value adjustments in respect of intangible assets are due to the recognition of 8 million and 4 million in respect of a brand and customer relationships, respectively.
The assessment of the fair value of the net assets of Counterpane LLC are provisional at 31 March 2007 and will be nalised during the 2008 financial year.
This will include the identication and valuation of any intangible assets acquired through the transaction.
From the date of acquisition, the companies have contributed to the groups results revenue of 180 million and a net profit of 5 million.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2006, the groups revenue would have been higher by 15 million, and profit for the year would have been lower by 4 million 2006: 159 million higher and 3 million higher, respectively.
Goodwill in respect of these acquisitions comprises principally the fair value of the skills and expertise of the acquired companies workforce and both anticipated revenue and cost synergies.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 115 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:03 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 492562781 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28.
ACQUISITIONS continued Year ended 31 March 2006 Atlanet On 28 February 2006 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Atlanet SpA Atlanet for total consideration of 65 million, including deferred consideration of 7 million and acquisition costs of 1 million.
At 31 March 2006, the fair value of Atlanets net assets were determined on a provisional basis.
During the 2007 financial year the determination of fair value has been nalised and adjustments have been made to the balances previously reported.
Prior year balances have not been restated as the amount of the adjustments is not significant to the group.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book and fair value, Fair value Fair value as previously reported adjustments m Intangible assets 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 25 25 Receivables 46 6 40 Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 Payables 43 6 49 Net assets acquired 35 14 21 Goodwill 44 Total consideration 65 The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill comprises principally the anticipated cost synergies and savings that are forecast to arise subsequent to the acquisition.
Radianz On 29 April 2005, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Radianz Limited Radianz for total consideration of 143 million, including acquisition costs of 5 million.
The net assets acquired in the transaction, and the goodwill arising, were as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 2222 Property, plant and equipment 55 4 51 Receivables 40 40 Cash and cash equivalents 44 44 Payables 53 53 Net assets acquired 86 18 104 Goodwill 39 Total consideration 143 Intangible assets, comprising a brand, customer lists and customer relationships, were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill comprises principally the assembled work force, expected cost savings and synergies.
Other During the year ended 31 March 2006 the group acquired a number of other smaller subsidiary undertakings and businesses including principally SkyNet Systems Limited, the CARA Group and Total Network Solutions Limited.
The combined net assets and goodwill arising in respect of these acquisitions were as follows: Book and fair value m Property, plant and equipment 5 Inventories 4 Receivables 26 Cash and cash equivalents 11 Payables 29 Net assets acquired 17 Goodwill 52 Total consideration 69 116 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:04 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1329560722 29.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS Background The group offers retirement benefit plans to its employees.
The groups main scheme, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, is a dened benefit scheme where the benets are based on employees length of service and final pensionable pay.
This scheme has been closed to new entrants since 31 March 2001 and replaced by a dened contribution scheme, the BT Retirement Plan BTRP.
The total pension cost of the group for the year, included within staff costs, was 643 million 2006: 603 million, 2005: 540 million.
Dened contribution schemes The income statement charge in respect of dened contribution schemes represents the contribution payable by the group based upon a xed percentage of employees pay.
The total pension cost for the year in respect of the groups main dened contribution scheme was 28 million 2006: 19 million, 2005: 11 million and 3 million 2006: 2 million, 2005: 1 million of contributions were outstanding at 31 March 2007.
Dened benefit schemes BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited administers and manages the scheme on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed of the scheme and relevant legislation.
Under the terms of the trust deed of the BTPS, there are nine trustee directors appointed by the group, five of which appointments are made with the agreement of the relevant trade unions, including the Chairman of the Trustees.
Four trustee directors other than the Chairman are appointed by BT on the nomination of the relevant trade unions.
Two of the trustee directors will normally hold senior positions within the group, and two will normally hold or have held senior positions in commerce or industry.
Subject to there being an appropriately qualied candidate, there should be at least one current pensioner or deferred pensioner of the BTPS as one of the trustee directors.
Trustee directors are appointed for a three-year term, but are then eligible for re-appointment.
Measurement of scheme assets and liabilities IAS 19 Scheme assets are measured at market value at the balance sheet date.
The liabilities of the BTPS are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash ows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method.
Estimated future cash ows are discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The financial assumptions used to measure the net pension obligation of the BTPS at 31 March 2007 are as follows: Real rates per annum Nominal rates per annum 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 % %% % %% Rate used to discount liabilities 2.28 2.19 2.63 5.35 5.00 5.40 a a a a Average future increases in wages and salaries 0.75 0.75 1.00 3.77 3.52 3.73 Average increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.00 2.75 2.70 Ination average increase in retail price index 3.00 2.75 2.70 a There is a short term reduction in the real salary growth assumption to 0.5% for the first three years.
The average life expectancy assumptions, after retirement at 60 years of age, are as follows: 2007 2006 Number of years Number of years Male in lower pay bracket 22.6 22.5 Male in higher pay bracket 25.0 24.7 Female 25.6 25.4 Future improvement every 10 years 1.0 1.0 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 117 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:04 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1642877651 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS continued Amounts recognised in respect of dened benefit schemes The net pension obligation is set out below: 2007 2006 Present value Present value Assets of liabilities deficit Assets of liabilities deficit m m m m m m BTPS 38,287 38,580 293 35,550 38,005 2,455 Other schemes 103 199 96 90 182 92 38,390 38,779 389 35,640 38,187 2,547 Deferred tax asset at 30% 117 764 Net pension obligation 272 1,783 Amounts recognised in the income statement on the basis of the above assumptions in respect of pension obligations are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Current service cost including dened contribution schemes 643 603 540 Total operating charge 643 603 540 Expected return on pension scheme assets 2,292 2,070 1,918 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,872 1,816 1,720 Net finance income 420 254 198 Total amount charged to the income statement 223 349 342 An analysis of actuarial gains and losses and the actual return on plan assets is shown below: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the year 1,409 2,122 294 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses 3,825 2,416 294 Actual return on plan assets 3,285 6,925 3,582 Changes in the present value of the dened benefit pension obligation are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Opening dened benefit pension obligation 38,187 34,435 Service cost 600 568 Interest cost 1,872 1,816 Contributions by employees 18 21 Actuarial gain loss 416 2,733 Benets paid 1,477 1,385 Exchange differences 5 1 Closing dened benefit pension obligation 38,779 38,187 The present value of the obligation is derived from long term cash ow projections and is thus inherently uncertain.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Opening fair value of plan assets 35,640 29,628 Expected return 2,292 2,070 Actuarial gains 993 4,855 Regular contributions by employer 406 398 deficiency contribution by employer 520 54 Contributions by employees 18 21 Benets paid 1,477 1,385 Exchange differences 2 1 Closing fair value of plan assets 38,390 35,640 The BTPS assets are invested in UK and overseas equities, UK and overseas properties, xed interest and index linked securities, deposits and short-term investments.
At 31 March 2007, the UK equities included 14 million 2006: 15 million ordinary shares of the company with a market value of 43 million 2006: 33 million.
The group occupies two properties owned by the BTPS scheme on which an annual rental of 0.1 million is payable 2006: 2 million.
The expected long term rate of return and fair values of the assets of the BTPS at 31 March were: 2007 2006 Expected longExpected longterm rate of term rate of return return per annum Asset fair value Target per annum Asset fair value Target % bn % % % bn % % UK equities 7.4 9.8 26 23 7.4 9.9 28 25 Non-UK equities 7.4 11.2 29 31 7.4 10.8 30 32 Fixed-interest securities 4.7 6.5 17 16 4.9 5.6 16 16 Index-linked securities 4.4 3.3 9 10 4.1 3.2 9 10 Property 5.8 4.7 12 13 5.8 4.4 12 12 Cash and other 4.8 2.8 7 7 4.0 1.7 5 5 6.4 38.3 100 100 6.5 35.6 100 100 The assumption for the expected return on scheme assets is a weighted average based on the assumed expected return for each asset class and the proportions held of each asset class at the beginning of the year.
The expected returns on xed interest and interest linked securities are based on the gross redemption yields at the start of the year.
Expected returns on equities and property are based on a combination of an estimate of the risk premium above yields on government bonds and consensus economic forecasts of future returns.
The long-term expected rate of return on investments does not affect the level of the obligation but does affect the expected return on pension scheme assets within the net finance income.
The history of experience gains and losses are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Present value of dened benefit obligation 38,779 38,187 34,435 Less: Fair value of plan assets 38,390 35,640 29,628 Net pension obligation 389 2,547 4,807 Experience adjustment on dened benefit obligation 190 527 437 Percentage of the present value of the dened benefit obligation 0.5% 1.4% 1.3% Experience adjustment on plan assets 993 4,855 1,664 Percentage of the plan assets 2.6% 13.6% 5.6% The group expects to contribute approximately 748 million to the BTPS, including 320 million of deficiency contributions, in the 2008 financial year.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 119 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:06 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -477835675 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS continued Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure BTPS scheme liabilities The assumed discount rate, mortality rates and salary increases all have a significant effect on the measurement of scheme liabilities.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions: Impact on deficit Decrease Increase bn 0.25 percentage point increase to: discount rate 1.4 salary increases 0.3 Additional 1.0 year increase to life expectancy 1.5 Funding valuation and future funding obligations A triennial valuation is carried out for the independent scheme trustees by a professionally qualied independent actuary, using the projected unit credit method.
The purpose of the valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
The funding valuation is performed at 31 December as this is the financial year end of the BTPS.
The valuation basis for funding purposes is broadly as follows: scheme assets are valued at market value at the valuation date: and, scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit credit method and discounted to their present value.
The last three triennial valuations were determined using the following long-term assumptions: Real rates per annum Nominal rates per annum 2005 2002 1999 2005 2002 1999 valuation valuation valuation valuation valuation valuation %%%%%% Discount rate Pre retirement liabilities 3.06 5.84 Post retirement liabilities 1.79 4.54 Return on existing assets, relative to market values 4.52 2.38 7.13 5.45 after allowing for an annual increase in dividends of 1.00 1.00 3.53 4.03 Return on future investments 4.00 4.00 6.60 7.12 Average increase in retail price index 2.70 2.50 3.00 a a Average future increases in wages and salaries 0.75 1.5 1.75 3.47 4.04 4.80 Average increase in pensions 2.70 2.50 3.00 a There is a short term reduction in the real salary growth assumption to 1.25% for the first three years.
At 31 December 2005, the assets of the BTPS had a market value of 34.4 billion 2002: 22.8 billion and were sufficient to cover 90.9% 2002: 91.6% of the benets accrued by that date.
This represented a funding deficit of 3.4 billion compared to 2.1 billion at 31 December 2002.
The funding valuation uses conservative assumptions whereas, had the valuation been based on the actuarys view of the median estimate basis the scheme would have been in surplus.
The market value of equity investments had increased and the investment income and contributions received by the scheme exceeded the benets paid.
In the three years ended 31 December 2005, however, the deficit had not improved by the same amount as the assets because the liabilities included longer life expectancy assumptions and used a lower discount rate.
Following the valuation the ordinary contributions rate increased to 19.5% of pensionable salaries including employee contributions of 6% from 18.2%, with effect from 1 January 2007.
In addition, the group will make deficiency payments equivalent to 280 million per annum for ten years.
The first three years instalments are to be paid up front: 520 million was paid in the 2007 financial year and 320 million was paid in April 2007.
Subsequently, annual payments of 280 million will be made, with the next payment due in December 2009.
This compared to annual deficiency payments of 232 million that were determined under the 2002 funding valuation.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the group made regular contributions of 402 million 2006: 396 million.
deficiency contributions of 520 million were also made 2006: 54 million, and a further 320 million was paid in April 2007.
Accordingly no further deficiency payments are due until after the 31 December 2008 valuation.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS continued The intention is for there to be sufficient assets in the scheme to pay pensions now and in the future.
Without any further contribution from the company, it is estimated that as at 31 December 2005, the assets of the scheme would have been sufficient to provide around 70% of the members benets with an insurance company.
If the group were to become insolvent, however, there are a number of additional protections available to members.
Firstly, there is the Crown Guarantee which was granted when the group was privatised in 1984.
This applies, on a winding up of the group, to pension entitlements for anyone who joined the scheme before 6 August 1984, and to payments to beneciaries of such persons.
Secondly, the Pension Protection Fund PPF may take over the scheme and pay certain benets to members.
There are limits on the amounts paid by the PPF and this would not give exactly the same benets as those provided by the scheme.
Under the terms of the trust deed that governs the BTPS, the group is required to have a funding plan that should address the deficit over a maximum period of 20 years.
The agreed funding plan addresses the deficit over a period of ten years.
The BTPS was closed to new entrants on 31 March 2001 and the age prole of active members will consequently increase.
Under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost, as a proportion of the active members pensionable salaries, is expected to increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Despite the scheme being closed to new entrants, the projected payment prole extends over more than 60 years.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The total charge recognised in the 2007 financial year in respect of share based payments was 93 million 2006: 76 million, 2005: 50 million.
The total fair value to be recognised over the vesting period of share options and awards granted in the 2007 financial year was 92 million 2006: 105 million, 2005: 88 million.
The company has an employee share investment plan and savings-related share option plans for its employees and those of participating subsidiaries, further share option plans for selected employees and an employee stock purchase plan for employees in the United States.
It also has several share plans for executives.
All share based payment plans are equity settled and details of these plans are provided below.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 121 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:11 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 2063344158 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Share option plans BT Group Employee Sharesave plans There is an HM Revenue and Customs approved savings related share option plan, under which employees save on a monthly basis, over a three or five year period, towards the purchase of shares at a xed price determined when the option is granted.
This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price for five year plans and 10% for three year plans.
The options must be exercised within six months of maturity of the savings contract, otherwise they lapse.
Options are granted annually, usually in June.
Similar plans operate for BTs overseas employees.
Employees may cancel sharesave options and remain employed by the group.
In such cases the options so cancelled do not vest and the monthly savings contributions are returned to the employee, with interest if applicable.
Such events are accounted for by ceasing to record a share based payments charge from the date of the employees withdrawal from the relevant plan.
Previously recorded share based payment charges are not reversed, and no charge is made for the accelerated vesting of future options that will not now vest.
For options outstanding at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005, the weighted average exercise prices are shown below.
2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Number of Weighted share average share average share average options exercise options exercise options exercise millions price millions price millions price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 279 166p 262 169p 233 180p Granted during the year 49 185p 59 179p 91 149p Forfeited during the year 12 176p 20 173p 59 176p Exercised during the year 42 199p 2 215p Expired during the year 2 179p 20 216p 3 176p Outstanding at the end of the year 272 165p 279 166p 262 169p Exercisable at the end of the year 2 210p 16 218p The weighted average remaining contractual life of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 4 months 2006: nil, 2005: 5 months.
The intrinsic value of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 2 million 2006: nil: 2005: nil.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year.
The weighted average share price during the year was 265p 2006: 205p, 2005: 183p.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year was 36.5 million 2006: 0.7 million, 2005: nil.
The intrinsic value of options outstanding at 31 March 2007 was 378 million 2006: 155 million: 2005: 105 million.
The weighted average fair value of savings related options granted during the 2007 financial year has been estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: an expected life extending three months later than the first exercise date: share price at date of grant of 229p 2006: 223p, 2005: 195p : estimated annualised dividend yield of approximately 5.5% 2006: 5%, 2005: 5% : risk free interest rates of approximately 5% 2006: 4%, 2005: 5% and expected volatility of approximately 17% 2006: 25%, 2005: 25%.
Volatility has been determined by reference to BTs historical volatility over a three year period, which is expected to reect the BT share price in the future.
The exercise prices are 202p 2006: 192p, 2005: 165p for Sharesave options exercisable three years after the date of grant and 179p 2006: 171p, 2005: 146p for Sharesave options exercisable five years after the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of Sharesave options granted in the 2007 financial year was 35p 2006: 44p, 2005: 41p for Sharesave options exercisable three years after the date of grant and 45p 2006: 55p, 2005: 52p for Sharesave options exercisable five years after the date of grant.
Options granted under BTs international sharesave, which is a three year plan, have been valued using the same assumptions.
The weighted average fair value of these share options is 46p 2006: 49p, 2005: 52p.
BT Group Global Share Option Plan GSOP There were no options granted under the GSOP in the 2007 financial year.
The options granted in previous years will be exercisable subject to continued employment and meeting corporate performance targets.
These options were valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The weighted average fair value of options granted under the 2005 GSOP was estimated as 36p.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: dividend yield of 5%, expected volatility of 25% and a risk free interest rate of 4%.
Details of this plan are provided in the share options section of the Report on directors remuneration.
BT Group Legacy Option Plan On the demerger of O2, BTs share option plans ceased to operate and were replaced by similar BT Group Employee Sharesave plans and the BT Group Global Share Option Plan.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The BT Group Legacy Option Plan was launched on 17 December 2001 following the scheme of arrangement and demerger of O2 in November 2001, and is therefore outside the scope of IFRS 2.
Replacement unapproved options over BT Group shares were granted to all participants in the executive option plans who had released their options over British Telecommunications plc shares.
The value of the replacement options was determined by averaging the combined prices of BT Group plc and O2 plc shares over the 20 dealing days following the demerger on 19 November 2001.
This resulted in a factor of 1.3198 being applied to the former option over British Telecommunications plc shares in order to give the number of BT Group shares under the new option.
The option prices of the original options were also adjusted to take account of the different number of shares under option.
The options are exercisable subject to continued employment and meeting corporate performance targets, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For options outstanding at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005 in respect of the BT Group Global Share Option Plan and the BT Group Legacy Option Plan, the weighted average exercise prices are shown below.
2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Number of Weighted share average share average share average options exercise options exercise options exercise millions price millions price millions price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 187 213p 206 213p 194 216p Granted during the year 31 193p Forfeited during the year 9 222p 16 205p 18 193p Exercised during the year 20 203p 3 199p Expired during the year 55 189p 1 353p Outstanding at the end of the year 103 227p 187 213p 206 213p Exercisable at the end of the year 48 261p 57 280p 34 206p Options were exercised regularly throughout the year.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 67 months 2006: 84 months, 2005: 80 months.
The intrinsic value of options exercisable at 31 March 2007 was 37 million 2006: 8 million, 2005: 1 million.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year was 23 million 2006: nil, 2005: nil.
The intrinsic value of options outstanding at 31 March 2007 was 96 million 2006: 46 million, 2005: 21 million.
The total fair value of options vested during the year was 8 million 2006: 8 million, 2005: nil.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The options outstanding under all share option plans at 31 March 2007, 2006 and 2005 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Executive plans 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2007 Weighted Number of Weighted 2006 Weighted Number of Weighted 2005 Weighted Number of Weighted Range of average outstanding average Range of average outstanding average Range of average outstanding average exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life 150p - 249p 198p 91 80 months 150p - 249p 195p 171 89 months 150p - 249p 195p 190 100 months 250p - 349p 263p 1 59 months 250p - 349p 302p 8 65 months 250p - 349p 304p 8 77 months 350p - 650p 469p 11 44 months 350p - 650p 552p 8 53 months 350p - 650p 554p 8 65 months Total 103 187 206 All employee plans 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2007 Weighted Number of Weighted 2006 Weighted Number of Weighted 2005 Weighted Number of Weighted Range of average outstanding average Range of average outstanding average Range of average outstanding average exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual exercise exercise options contractual prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life prices price millions remaining life 100p - 199p 155p 249 33 months 100p - 199p 158p 243 39 months 100p - 199p 154p 203 47 months 200p - 300p 214p 23 21 months 200p - 300p 220p 36 18 months 200p - 300p 222p 59 22 months Total 272 279 262 Other share based payment plans Incentive Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and Retention Share Plan The BT Group Incentive Share Plan ISP and the BT Group Retention Share Plan RSP were introduced for employees of the group in 2001.
Under the plans, company shares are conditionally awarded to participants.
Under the ISP, participants are only entitled to these shares in full at the end of a three year period if the company has met the relevant pre-determined corporate performance measure and if the participants are still employed by the group.
The corporate performance measure is BTs total shareholder return TSR measured against a comparator group of companies from the European Telecom Sector at the beginning of the relevant performance period.
The ISP operated in the 2007 financial year with 1,507 participants granted awards over 24.9 million shares 2006: 1,382 participants were granted awards over 23.2 million shares, 2005: 1,406 participants were granted awards over 12.6 million shares.
Awards under the ISP have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
TSRs were generated for BT and the comparator group at the end of the three year performance period, using each companys volatility and dividend yield, as well as the cross correlation between pairs of stocks.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted under the ISP for the 2007 financial year was 127p 2006: 123p, 2005: 98p.
Awards under the ISP were valued by reference to the weighted average market price of the shares on the date of grant of 230p 2006: 222p, 2005: 195p.
Under the RSP, the length of retention period before awards vest is exible.
Awards may vest annually in tranches.
The shares are transferred at the end of a specified period, only if the employee is still employed by the group.
During the 2007 financial year participants were granted awards over 0.8 million shares 2006: 1.8 million shares: 2005: 1.6 million shares.
Awards under the RSP were valued using the average middle market share price for the three days prior to grant date.
The weighted average share price for awards granted in the 2007 financial year was 267p 2006: 216p, 2005: 182p.
During the 2007 financial year 1.2 million shares vested in 11 participants in the RSP 2006: 1.1 million shares vested in 16 participants, 2005: 2.0 million shares vested in 11 participants.
The BT Group Deferred Bonus Plan DBP was established in 1998 and awards are granted annually to selected employees of the group.
Under this plan, shares in the company are transferred to participants at the end of three years if they continue to be employed by the group throughout that period.
During the 2007 financial year participants were granted awards over 5.8 million shares 2006: 2.3 million shares: 2005: 2.9 million shares.
Awards under the DBP were valued using the average middle market share price for the three days prior to grant date which was 232p 2006: 223p, 2005: 193p.
During the 2007 financial year 2.9 million shares 2006: 2.0 million shares, 2005: 0.6 million shares were transferred to 184 2006: 193, 2005: 219 participants at the end of the three year period.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The number of shares issuable under the ISP, DBP and RSP were as follows: ISP DBP RSP Total Number of shares millions At 1 April 2004 5.2 3.0 8.2 Awards granted 12.6 2.9 1.6 17.1 Awards vested 0.6 2.0 2.6 Awards lapsed 0.3 0.3 Dividend shares reinvested 0.6 0.4 0.1 1.1 At 31 March 2005 12.9 7.9 2.7 23.5 Awards granted 23.2 2.3 1.8 27.3 Awards vested 2.0 1.1 3.1 Awards lapsed 1.0 0.2 1.2 Dividend shares reinvested 1.7 0.4 0.2 2.3 At 31 March 2006 36.8 8.4 3.6 48.8 Awards granted 24.9 5.8 0.8 31.5 Awards vested 2.9 1.2 4.1 Awards lapsed 5.3 0.6 0.1 6.0 Dividend shares reinvested 2.6 0.5 0.1 3.2 At 31 March 2007 59.0 11.2 3.2 73.4 In accordance with the terms of the ISP, DBP and RSP plans, dividends or dividend equivalents earned on shares during the conditional periods are reinvested in company shares for the potential benefit of the participants.
At 31 March 2007, 15.6 million shares 2006: 21.4 million, 2005: 23.3 million were held in trust and 57.8 million shares 2006: 27.4 million, 2005: 0.2 million were held in treasury for employee share plans and other share based payment plans.
Employee Share Investment Plan The BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP has been in operation since December 2001.
The ESIP, which has been approved by HM Revenue and Customs, comprises directshare and allshare.
Under directshare, UK employees are given an opportunity to purchase shares partnership shares out of pre-tax salary up to a maximum value of 1,500 per year.
During the 2007 financial year, 6.3 million shares 2006: 6.4 million shares, 2005: 6.1 million shares, including 1.0 million shares 2006: 0.8 million shares, 2005: 0.2 million shares purchased by dividend reinvestment, were purchased by the Trustee of the ESIP on behalf of 15,445 2006: 14,443, 2005: 13,017 employees at a total cost of 14.3 million 2006: 13.7 million, 2005: 11.7 million.
Allshare, the free shares element of the ESIP allows BT to provide free shares to UK employees which are held in trust for at least three years.
Employees outside the UK receive the same awards of shares where practicable, otherwise they will receive awards equivalent to the value of the free shares.
In 2007 1% 2006: 1%, 2005: 0.5% of pre-tax profits, amounting to 25 million, was allocated to Allshare 2006: 22 million, 2005: 11 million.
Up to 2% of pre-tax profits would have been available subject to meeting two corporate performance targets: one of these to maintain earnings per share at the same level as in the 2006 financial year, and the other to have five percent more customers very or extremely satisfied with BT provided the percentage of customers who are dissatisfied did not increase compared with the 2006 financial year.
The earnings per share target was met but not the one for customer satisfaction.
From the 2008 financial year onwards, Allshare will be replaced by free BT Total Broadband Option 3 for all BT employees in the UK.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan The BT Group Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP, for employees in the US, enables participants to purchase American Depositary Shares ADSs quarterly at a price the Initial Base Option Price which is 85% of the fair market price of an ADS at the start of the Initial Enrolment Period of, in the case of employees who enrol in the ESPP after the Initial Enrolment Period, 85% of the fair market price of an ADS on the last business day of the calendar quarter immediately following enrolment.
The fourth offer, with an Initial Base Option Price of US$32.52 ended in December 2006.
A fifth offer was launched in December 2006 with an Initial Base Option Price of US$46.00 and will expire in December 2008.
Openreach In the Undertakings given to Ofcom on 22 September 2005, BT agreed that the incentive elements of the remuneration of employees within Openreach should be linked to Openreach performance rather than BT targets or share price.
However Openreach employees are allowed to participate in the BT HMRC approved all-employee share plans on the same terms as other BT employees.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 125 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:15 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1664770056 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Therefore in order to comply with the Undertakings, during the 2007 financial year BT offered a cash alternative to 102 Openreach employees holding BT share options and awards in the 2004 and 2005 ISP and the 2004 GSOP.
The cash alternative is payable to the employees at the time the options and awards would normally vest and remains subject to the employees continuing in employment throughout the vesting period.
Those employees who declined the cash alternative will continue to be entitled to exercise their awards in accordance with the original vesting timetable.
The impact of this modication did not have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
New arrangements were also introduced for Openreach employees during the 2007 financial year whereby long term incentive arrangements are linked to Openreach targets and will be paid in cash instead of shares and hence are neither equity settled or cash settled share based payment arrangements.
AUDIT AND NON AUDIT SERVICES The following fees for audit and non audit services were paid or are payable to the companys auditor,  LLP, for the three years ended 31 March 2007.
2007 2006 2005 000 000 000 Audit services Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 3,100 1,927 1,785 Non audit services Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3,518 3,286 2,363 Other services pursuant to legislation 1,212 1,361 1,487 Tax services 763 1,775 2,912 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 748 317 989 All other services 23 556 480 9,364 9,222 10,016 The audit fee of the company was 38,600 2006: 37,700, 2005: 35,000.
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non audit services can be provided by the companys external auditors and the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
All non audit services are approved by the Audit Committee.
Audit services represents fees payable for services in relation to the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements and also includes fees for reports under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which is required for the first time for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Other services pursuant to legislation represents fees payable for services in relation to other statutory lings or engagements that are required to be carried out by the companys auditor.
In particular, this includes fees for audit reports issued on the groups regulatory financial statements.
Tax services represents fees payable for tax compliance and advisory services.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions represent fees payable in relation to due diligence work completed on acquisitions.
All other services represents fees payable for non-regulatory reporting on internal controls and other advice on accounting matters.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The group adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement with effect from 1 April 2005.
Financial information was previously prepared under UK GAAP for the financial year ended 31 March 2005.
Where applicable, information for the comparative period has been separately disclosed below in order to comply with the previous requirements of UK GAAP.
The group issues or holds financial instruments mainly to finance its operations: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage the currency and interest rate risks arising from its operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and trade payables, arise directly from the groups operations.
The group nances its operations primarily by a mixture of issued share capital, retained profits, deferred taxation, long-term loans and short-term loans, principally by issuing commercial paper supported by committed borrowing facilities.
The group borrows in the major long-term debt markets in major currencies.
Typically, but not exclusively, the bond markets provide the most costeffective means of long-term borrowing.
The group uses derivative financial instruments primarily to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates against these borrowings.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The group also uses financial instruments to hedge some of its currency exposures arising from its overseas short-term investment funds and other non-UK assets, liabilities and forward purchase commitments.
The financial instruments used comprise borrowings in foreign currencies and forward currency contracts.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
The groups prole of borrowings and short-term funds is managed with consideration of the cash ow from operations.
These borrowings and short term funds are managed by the centralised treasury operation.
The types of financial instrument used for investment of short term funds are prescribed in group treasury policies with limits on the exposure to any one organisation.
Short term investment in financial instruments is partially undertaken on behalf of the group by substantial external fund managers who are limited to dealing in debt instruments and certain dened derivative instruments and are given strict guidelines on credit, diversication and maturity proles.
The group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity, funding, investment and the groups financial risk, including risk from volatility in currency and interest rates and counterparty credit risk.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and the objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
The Board sets the policy for the groups centralised treasury operation and its activities are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of the borrowings and investments under its management.
Counterparty credit risk is closely monitored and managed within controls set by the Board.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the groups net debt note 10 increased from 7.5 billion to 7.9 billion mainly due to outows arising on investing activities such as capital expenditure and acquisitions, and from nancing activities such as dividend and net interest payments which more than offset inows mainly arising from operating activities.
During the 2007 financial year, debt amounting to 1.1 billion matured consisting of the 2006 sterling 7.375% notes, finance leases and other sterling oating rate loans and notes.
This was offset by increased holdings of commercial paper and lower current financial assets and cash and cash equivalent investments.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 the groups net debt note 10 reduced from 7.9 billion to 7.5 billion mainly due to operational and working capital inows.
During the 2006 financial year two substantial notes matured, namely the 2005 US dollar 7.875% notes and 2006 Euro 6.375% notes amounting to 3.8 billion and were primarily funded from current financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The group utilised its commercial paper programme during the year, which was supported by a committed borrowing facility, as well as raising a sterling oating rate borrowing of 1 billion.
There has been no change in the nature of the groups risk prole between 31 March 2007 and the date of these financial statements.
Interest rate risk management The group has interest bearing financial assets and financial liabilities.
The groups policy is to ensure that at least 70% of net debt is at xed rates.
In order to manage this prole, the group has entered into interest rate swap agreements with commercial banks and other institutions to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are xed.
Under interest rate swaps, the group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the differences between xed rate and oating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings have been, and are, subject to xed sterling interest rates after applying the impact of hedging instruments.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts totalling 5.1 billion 2006: 5.1 billion.
At 31 March 2007, the groups xed:oating interest rate prole, after hedging, on net debt was 75:25 2006: 85:15.
Based on the composition of net debt at 31 March 2007, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the groups annual net finance expense by approximately 11 million 2006: 10 million.
Foreign exchange risk management The purpose of the groups foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the group from the risk that the eventual net inows and net outows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
Most of the groups current revenue is invoiced in pounds sterling, and most of its operations and costs arise within the UK.
The groups foreign currency borrowings which totalled 5.3 billion at 31 March 2007 2006: 5.4 billion, are used to finance its operations.
These borrowings have been predominantly swapped to sterling.
Cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts have been entered into to reduce the foreign currency exposure on the groups operations and the groups net assets.
The group also enters into forward currency contracts to hedge foreign currency investments, interest expense, capital purchases and purchase and sale commitments on a selective basis.
The commitments hedged are principally US dollar and euro denominated.
As a result of these policies, the groups exposure to foreign currency arises mainly on the residual currency exposure on its non-UK investments in its subsidiaries and on imbalances between the value of outgoing and incoming international calls.
A 10% strengthening in sterling against major currencies would cause the groups net assets at 31 March 2007 to fall by less than 220 million 2006: 150 million, with an insignicant effect on the groups profits.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency with a total gross notional principal of 6.1 billion 2006: 6.4 billion.
The majority of these instruments were cross currency swaps with a remaining term ranging from 2 months to 24 years.
The notional value of forward currency contracts included in the gross notional principal at 31 March 2007 were 1,297 million 2006: 809 million for purchases of currency and 2 million 2006: 781 million for sales of currency.
The forward currency contracts had a term remaining ranging from 2 to 321 days.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 127 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:16 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1457786712 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Credit risk management The group considers that it is not exposed to major concentrations of credit risk.
The group, however, is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
The group limits the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken with a single counterparty, or group of related counterparties, the group may enter into a netting arrangement to reduce the groups exposure to credit risk.
Currently the group makes use of standard International Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA documentation.
In addition, where the group has a legal right of set off and the ability and intention to settle net, the relevant assets and liabilities are netted within the balance sheet.
The group seeks collateral or other security where it is considered necessary.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the groups financial assets at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 is represented by the amounts reported under the corresponding balance sheet headings.
Liquidity risk management The group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into long and short term financial instruments to support operational and other funding requirements.
The groups liquidity and funding management process includes projecting cash ows and considering the level of liquid assets in relation thereto, monitoring balance sheet liquidity and maintaining a diverse range of funding sources and back-up facilities.
Liquid assets surplus to immediate operating requirements of the group are generally invested and managed by the centralised treasury function.
Requirements of group companies for operating finance are met whenever possible from central resources.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate committed borrowing facilities.
During the year the group utilised its commercial paper programme which was supported by a committed borrowing facility of up to 1,500 million 2006: 1,500 million.
The facility is available for a period of five years.
The group had additional committed borrowing facilities of 2,035 million 2006: 35 million.
This amount includes a facility of 2,000 million 2006: nil and is available for one year with an extension option for a future year.
Renancing risk is managed by limiting the amount of borrowing that matures within any specified period.
Price risk management The group has limited exposure to equity securities price risk on investments held by the group.
Hedging activities The group entered into a combination of interest rate and cross currency swaps designated as a combination of fair value and cash ow hedges in order to hedge certain risks associated with the groups US dollar and euro borrowings.
The risks being hedged consist of currency cash ows associated with future interest and principal payments and the fair value risk of certain elements of borrowings arising from uctuations in currency rates and interest rates.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements in cash ow hedges against borrowings with a total notional principal amount of 3.2 billion 2006: 3.2 billion.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 15 million and liabilities of 234 million 2006: 405 million.
The interest rate swaps have a remaining term ranging from four to 24 years 2006: four to 25 years to match the underlying hedged cash ows arising on the borrowings consisting of annual and semi-annual interest payments.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 5.5% 2006: 4.6% and interest payable are at a weighted average rate of 5.9% 2006: 5.9%.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding cross currency swap agreements in cash ow and fair value hedges against borrowings with a total notional principal amount of 4.8 billion 2006: 4.8 billion.
The fair value of these cross currency swaps at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 10 million 2006: 32 million and liabilities of 833 million 2006: 433 million.
The cross currency swaps have a remaining term ranging from two months to 24 years 2006: one to 25 years to match the underlying hedged borrowings consisting of annual and semi-annual interest payments and the repayment of principal amounts.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 6.9% 2006: 6.9% for euro cross currency swaps and 8.2% 2006: 8.2% for dollar cross currency swaps and interest payable are at a weighted average rate of 9.2% 2006: 8.5%.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges of currency cash ows associated with certain euro and US dollar step up interest payments on bonds.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 205 million 2006: 77 million.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised an asset of 1 million 2006: 1 million and had a remaining term of between three and 11 months 2006: three and 11 months after which they will be rolled into new contracts.
The hedged interest cash ows arise on a semi-annual basis and extend over a period of up to 24 years 2006: 12 years.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges of currency cash ows associated with certain euro and US dollar commercial paper issues.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 760 million 2006: 434 million.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 15 million 2006: 6 million and had a remaining term of less than three months 2006: less than two months to match the cash ows on maturity of the underlying commercial paper.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges against currency cash ows associated with the forecast purchase of xed assets and invoice cash ows arising on certain dollar denominated supplies.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 2 million 2006: 6 million for sales of currency and 165 million 2006: 197 million for purchases of currency.
The fair value of forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised liabilities of 3 million 2006: nil and had a remaining term of less than one month 2006: less than one month after which they will be rolled into new contracts.
The forecast cash ows are anticipated to arise over a period of one month to six years 2006: one month to six years from the balance sheet date.
The group has hedged currency cash ows associated with US dollar denominated investments using forward currency contracts.
At 31 March 2007, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of nil 2006: 759 million.
The fair value of the forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised liabilities of nil 2006: 5 million with a remaining term of less than one month.
Other derivatives At 31 March 2007, the group held certain foreign currency forward and interest rate swap contracts that were not in hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39.
Foreign currency forward contracts were economically hedging operational purchases and sales and had a notional principal amount of nil for sales of currency 2006: 16 million and 167 million for purchases of currency 2006: 101 million and had a maturity period of under nine months 2006: under 12 months.
Interest rate swaps not in hedging relationships under IAS 39 had a notional principal amount of 1.9 billion 2006: 1.9 billion and mature between 2014 and 2030 2006: 2014 and 2030.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 6.5% 2006: 6.1% and interest payable are at a weighted average rate of 8.1% 2006: 7.7%.
The volatility arising from these swaps is recognised through the income statement but is limited due to a natural offset in their valuation movements.
At 31 March 2006, the group recognised the fair value of an option contained in a supplier contract which required separate recognition.
In addition, two embedded derivatives expired during the year.
The first related to an option exercisable on the groups US dollar convertible bond see note 5 and the second related to a put option whose value was based on an underlying interest differential between sterling xed and oating interest rates.
Fair value of financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to its fair value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2007 and 2006.
The carrying amounts are included in the group balance sheet under the indicated headings.
The fair value of the financial instruments are the amounts at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale.
In particular, the fair values of listed investments were estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The carrying amount of the short-term deposits and investments approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the investments held.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable.
The fair value of the groups bonds, debentures, notes, finance leases and other long-term borrowings has been estimated on the basis of quoted market prices for the same or similar issues with the same maturities where they existed, and on calculations of the present value of future cash ows using the appropriate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, where market prices of similar issues did not exist.
The fair value of the groups outstanding swaps and foreign exchange contracts where the estimated amounts, calculated using discounted cash ow models, that the group would receive or pay in order to terminate such contracts in an arms length transaction taking into account market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance sheet date.
Carrying amount Fair value 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Non-derivatives: Financial liabilities: Listed bonds, debentures and notes 6,249 7,140 7,059 7,946 Finance leases 567 845 601 885 Other loans and borrowings 1,774 1,950 1,771 1,976 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 129 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:16 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 468745567 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Financial liabilities The following tables set out the exposure of financial liabilities to market pricing, interest cash ow risk and currency risk.
The maturity prole of financial liabilities reects the contractual repricing dates.
2007 Adjusted Current and Listed listed Adjusted non current bonds, Effect of bonds, Effect of Adjusted Other loans Effect of other loans trade and Current and debentures hedging and debentures Finance hedging and finance and hedging and and other non current a a a b c and notes interest and notes leases interest leases borrowings interest borrowings payables provisions m m m m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 1,617 4,085 5,702 110 110 152 7 145 Euro 768 768 US dollar 3,563 3,563 Total xed rate interest financial liabilities 5,948 246 5,702 110 110 152 7 145 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 301 691 992 302 5 297 853 738 1,591 Euro 155 155 769 769 Total oating rate interest financial liabilities 301 691 992 457 5 452 1,622 31 1,591 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 6,249 445 6,694 567 5 562 1,774 38 1,736 Non interest bearing financial liabilities Pound sterling 4,034 272 Euro 856 9 US dollar 178 8 Other 107 Total 6,249 445 6,694 567 5 562 1,774 38 1,736 5,175 289 Maturity prole of interest bearing financial liabilities based on contractual repricing dates Less than one year 843 149 992 457 5 452 1,626 31 1,595 Between one and two years 147 7 140 Between two and three years 108 108 1 1 Between three and four years 2,283 227 2,510 Between four and five years Greater than five years 3,015 177 3,192 110 110 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 6,249 445 6,694 567 5 562 1,774 38 1,736 Weighted average effective xed interest rates %%%%%% Pound sterling 7.3 9.1 10.4 10.4 10.2 10.2 Euro 7.5 US dollar 8.6 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest and fair value adjustments for hedged risk recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 1,544 million of current and 590 million of non current trade and other payables which relate to non financial liabilities.
c The carrying amount excludes 36 million of non current provisions which relate to non financial liabilities.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued 2006 Adjusted Current and Listed listed Adjusted non current bonds, Effect of bonds, Effect of Adjusted Other loans Effect of other loans trade and Current and debentures hedging and debentures Finance hedging and finance and hedging and and other non current a a a b c and notes interest and notes leases interest leases borrowings interest borrowings payables provisions m m m m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 2,022 4,077 6,099 108 108 240 240 Euro 790 790 US dollar 4,037 4,037 Total xed rate interest financial liabilities 6,849 750 6,099 108 108 240 240 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 291 691 982 568 9 559 1,273 426 1,699 Euro 169 169 371 371 US dollar 66 66 Total oating rate interest financial liabilities 291 691 982 737 9 728 1,710 11 1,699 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 7,140 59 7,081 845 9 836 1,950 11 1,939 Non interest bearing financial liabilities Pound sterling 3,492 298 Euro 923 US dollar 402 Other 82 Total 7,140 59 7,081 845 9 836 1,950 11 1,939 4,899 298 Maturity prole of interest bearing financial liabilities based on contractual repricing dates Less than one year 700 682 1,382 737 9 728 1,810 11 1,799 Between one and two years 624 624 Between two and three years 140 140 Between three and four years 120 120 Between four and five years 2,503 7 2,510 Greater than five years 3,193 4 3,189 108 108 Total interest bearing financial liabilities 7,140 59 7,081 845 9 836 1,950 11 1,939 Weighted average effective xed interest rates %%%%%% Pound sterling 7.3 8.8 10.4 10.4 9.8 9.8 Euro 7.6 US dollar 8.8 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest and fair value adjustments for hedged risk recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 1,641 million of current and 485 million of non current trade and other payables which relate to non financial liabilities.
c The carrying amount excludes 9 million of current and 24 million of non current provisions which relate to non financial liabilities.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 131 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:17 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1646448959 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued The oating rate financial liabilities bear interest rates xed in advance for periods ranging from one day to one year by reference to LIBOR quoted rates.
Financial assets The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets to market pricing and interest cash ow risk and currency risk.
The maturity prole of financial assets reects the contractual repricing dates.
2007 Adjusted Effect of Adjusted Cash and Effect of cash and Trade and Current hedging current Non current cash hedging cash other a a b investments and interest investments investments equivalents and interest equivalents receivables m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 3 3 Total xed rate financial assets 3 3 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 687 687 Euro 188 188 US dollar 106 106 Other 94 94 Total oating rate financial assets 1,075 1,075 Total interest bearing financial assets 3 3 1,075 1,075 Non interest bearing financial assets Pound sterling 14 2,393 Euro 393 US dollar 9 302 Other 4 63 Total 3 3 27 1,075 1,075 3,151 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 922 million of current and 523 million of non current trade and other receivables which relate to non-financial assets.
2006 Adjusted Effect of Adjusted Cash and Effect of cash and Trade and Current hedging current Non current cash hedging cash other a a b investments and interest investments investments equivalents and interest equivalents receivables m m m m m m m m Fixed rate interest Pound sterling 3 3 19 19 Euro 6 6 Total xed rate financial assets 3 3 25 25 Floating rate interest Pound sterling 14 342 356 1,127 422 1,549 Euro 215 215 US dollar 348 348 522 422 100 Other 76 76 Total oating rate financial assets 362 6 356 1,940 1,940 Total interest bearing financial assets 365 6 359 1,965 1,965 Non interest bearing financial assets Pound sterling 12 2,218 Euro 1 647 US dollar 2 269 Other 2 74 Total 365 6 359 17 1,965 1,965 3,208 a Adjustment for hedging and interest reflects the effect of currency derivatives: reclassifies the carrying amount to reflect interest derivatives: and excludes interest recognised in carrying amounts.
b The carrying amount excludes 686 million of current and 305 million of non current trade and other receivables which relate to non-financial assets.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued The maturity prole of interest bearing financial assets based on contractual repricing dates is less than one year.
The oating rate financial assets bear interest rate in their respective currencies, xed in advance for periods ranging from one day to one year by reference to LIBOR quoted rates.
Additional financial instrument disclosures required under UK GAAP for the 2005 financial year The following information is provided in accordance with the requirements of FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures.
The financial information excludes all of the groups short-term receivables and payables.
Financial assets held for trading 2005 m Net gain included in profit and loss account 18 The net gain was derived from government bonds, commercial paper and similar debt instruments.
The average fair value of financial assets held during the year ended 31 March 2005 did not differ materially from the year end position.
Hedges Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
Unrecognised and deferred gains and losses on instruments used for hedging and those recognised in the year ended 31 March 2005 are as follows: 2005 Gains Losses m m Gains and losses: a recognised in the year but arising in previous years 124 59 unrecognised at the balance sheet date 47 799 a carried forward in the year end balance sheet, pending recognition in the profit and loss account 545 165 expected to be recognised in the following year: unrecognised at balance sheet date 36 51 a carried forward in the year end balance sheet, pending recognition in the profit and loss account 136 39 a Excluding gains and losses on hedges accounted for by adjusting the carrying amount of a fixed asset.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS In April 2007, we announced a new structure that will deliver faster, more resilient and cost effective services to customers wherever they are.
With effect from 1 July 2007, BT Design will be responsible for the design and development of the platforms, systems and processes, which will support our services: BT Operate will be responsible for their deployment and operation.
Around 20,000 employees from design, operations, IT and networks will move into these new units.
We estimate that the reorganisation and transformation activities will result in restructuring costs of around 450 million which is expected to generate a pay back within two to three years.
These activities will include developing new processes and systems, re-skilling and leaver costs which will be accommodated within existing policies and by voluntary means.
We expect the majority of these costs to be incurred in the 2008 financial year and to be classied as a specic item in our 2008 results.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 133 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:19 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1382184568 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS, which differ in certain respects from those applicable in the United States.
For BT there are no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and IFRS as published by the IASB.
I DIFFERENCES BETWEEN IFRS AND UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES US GAAP The following are the main differences between IFRS and US GAAP which are relevant to the groups consolidated financial statements.
a Sale and leaseback of properties Under IFRS, the sale of BTs property portfolio in 2001 is treated as a disposal and the vast majority of the subsequent leaseback is an operating lease.
Under US GAAP as BT has a continuing interest in the properties, these properties are recorded on the balance sheet at their net book value, a leasing obligation is recognised and the gain on disposal is deferred until the properties are sold and vacated by BT and the corresponding lease obligation is terminated.
Rental payments made by BT are reversed and replaced by a finance lease interest and a depreciation charge.
b Pensions Under IFRS, the group accounts for its pension benefit plans according to IAS 19 Employee Benets.
Surpluses and deficits of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are included in the group balance sheet at their fair values and all movements in these balances are reected in the income statement, except for those actuarial gains and losses which are reected in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The over or underfunded status of the dened benefit plan is recorded as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 158 Employers Accounting for Dened benefit Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No 87, 88, 106 and 132 R FAS 158, when a pension plan had an accumulated benefit obligation which exceeded the fair value of the plan assets, FAS 87 required the unfunded amount to be recognised as a minimum liability in the balance sheet under US GAAP.
The offset to the liability was recorded as an intangible asset up to the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost, and thereafter directly in other comprehensive income.
The actuarial gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income were transferred to net income over the average remaining service period if certain thresholds were met.
FAS 158 requires an employer to recognise the over or underfunded status of a dened benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability and to recognise changes in that funded status in other comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur.
Because the funded status of benefit plans are now fully recognised, a minimum liability is no longer recognised.
Retrospective application of FAS 158 is not permitted and upon adoption of FAS 158, the recognition of the over or underfunded status of the groups dened benefit pension plans is generally consistent with IAS 19.
Differences in recognition rules for actuarial gains and losses will continue to give rise to differences in periodic pension expense as measured under IFRS and US GAAP.
The group has adopted FAS 158 in full with effect from 31 March 2007. c Capitalisation of interest Under IFRS, the group has chosen not to capitalise interest.
Under US GAAP, the estimated amount of interest incurred whilst constructing major capital projects is included in property, plant and equipment, and depreciated over the lives of the related assets.
The amount of interest capitalised is determined by reference to the average interest rates on outstanding borrowings.
The capitalised interest is depreciated over a period of 5 to 27 years determined by the nature of the related asset.
d Financial instruments The group exercised the exemption available under IFRS 1 to adopt IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 April 2005.
The 2005 comparative period is therefore presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP, investments are held on the balance sheet at historical cost.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedges are not recognised until the exposure being hedged is recognised.
Certain derivative financial instruments which qualify for hedge accounting under UK GAAP do not qualify or were not designated as hedges under US GAAP.
From 1 April 2005 the group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 which gave rise to differences in accounting treatments applied under US GAAP SFAS No.
133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
On adoption of IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments and the fair value of the hedged risks, where a hedged item is in a fair value hedge, were recognised as a one time transition adjustment to equity and resulted in a transitional difference between US GAAP and IFRS.
Under IFRS, certain cash ow hedges result in a hedged non-financial asset or liability being adjusted from the equity reserve for the applicable hedged amount.
US GAAP does not allow the amounts taken to equity to be transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The amounts remain in equity and are recognised in earnings as the non-financial asset is depreciated or disposed.
The group did not apply hedge accounting under US GAAP for certain items designated as hedges under IFRS.
As a result, certain gains or losses on derivatives held in the cash ow reserve or translation reserve are credited or charged to the income statement under US GAAP.
In addition, under IFRS, the hedged risk associated with a hedged item is fair valued where the item has been designated in a fair value hedge.
As hedge accounting has not been claimed for those items under US GAAP, this fair value adjustment will not be reected.
These differences will reverse as the derivatives or hedged items mature, are sold or expire.
The fair value and book value of derivative instruments as at 31 March 2007 and 2006 is disclosed in note 33.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued IFRS prescribes four investment categories, namely held for trading, available-for-sale, loans and receivables and held to maturity.
US GAAP prescribes only three categories, namely held for trading, available-for-sale and held to maturity.
Whilst the held for trading and available-for-sale categories are similar under both GAAPs, items held in loans and receivables under IFRS are generally classied as held to maturity under US GAAP.
e Foreign exchange Under US GAAP, on the sale of a foreign enterprise, foreign exchange differences within the cumulative translation adjustment CTA are included in net income in arriving at a gain or loss on disposal.
Although IFRS also requires inclusion of the cumulative translation differences held in reserves as part of the calculation of gains or losses on disposal, they were reset to zero on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004. f Deferred taxation Under both IFRS and US GAAP, provision for deferred income tax is required on a full provision basis in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and SFAS No.
Under IFRS, deferred tax is recorded for temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets not recognised are disclosed in note 21.
Under US GAAP deferred taxes are recorded on all temporary differences and a valuation allowance is established in respect of those deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that some portion will remain unrealised.
Deferred tax adjustments in the IFRS to US GAAP reconciliation are primarily the result of the deferred tax impact of the other US GAAP adjustments made in the reconciliation.
In addition, IFRS and US GAAP adopt different methods for recognising deferred tax on share based payments.
Under FAS 123 R, deferred tax assets are recognised over the service period based on the compensation charge.
Any realised tax deductions which exceed the related compensation expense is recognised in additional paid in capital APIC.
These benets are pooled and can be used to offset shortfalls in deductions related to other share awards.
a At 31 March 2007, total deferred tax liabilities were 1,447 million 2006: 1,291 million primarily in respect of accelerated capital allowances and total deferred tax assets were 117 million 2006: 1,132 million, primarily in respect of pension obligations.
The total valuation allowance recognised for deferred tax assets was as follows: Movement in 2007 2006 year m m m Capital losses 5,279 5,493 214 Operating losses not utilised 741 775 34 Other 313 271 42 Total 6,333 6,539 206 a Opening retained earnings and shareholders equity have been restated to correct a deferred tax valuation allowance of 320 million related to the groups property sale and leaseback transaction in 2001.
The adjustment has the effect of increasing US GAAP deferred tax assets and retained earnings by 320 million.
The adjustment did not have a material impact on US GAAP net income or earnings per share for any of the years presented.
g Impairment of property, plant and equipment Certain network assets previously impaired did not meet the US GAAP criteria for impairment under SFAS No.
144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
US GAAP requires that an entity assess whether impairment has occurred based on the undiscounted future cash ows.
An impairment exists if the sum of these cash ows is less than the carrying amount of the asset.
The impairment loss recognised in the income statement is based on the assets fair value, being either market value or the sum of discounted future cash ows.
The assets that were not impaired under US GAAP are continuing to be depreciated over their remaining useful lives.
h Revenue Under IFRS, long-term contracts to design, build and operate software solutions are accounted for under IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts under which revenue is recognised as earned over the contract period.
Under US GAAP certain of these contracts are accounted for as multiple element arrangements under EITF 00-21 and SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition.
As vendor specic objective evidence to support the fair value of the separate elements to be delivered is unavailable, revenue of 214 million under certain contracts is deferred in the 2007 financial year 2006: 109 million, 2005: 162 million.
There was no impact on net income due to the deferral of costs on these contracts.
Total deferred revenue and costs recorded under US GAAP at 31 March 2007 was 562 million 2006: 348 million.
Under IFRS, IAS 18 Revenue connection and installation services revenue is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Under US GAAP, SAB 104 Revenue Recognition such revenues are recognised over the estimated customer life and the costs directly associated with the revenue are deferred.
Accordingly, an adjustment has been recognised for the first time in the 2007 financial year in respect of Openreach products which have a significant connection and installation service charge.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 135 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:19 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -436176980 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued i Share-based payments Under IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, share options are fair valued at their grant date and the cost is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
The group adopted SFAS No.
123 revised 2004 Share-Based Payment with effect from 1 April 2005 using the modied prospective transition method.
Under FAS 123 R, share based payments to employees are required to be measured based on their grant date fair value with limited exceptions and recognised over the related service period.
For periods prior to 1 April 2005, the group accounted for share-based payments under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25 using the intrinsic value method.
The results for the prior periods have not been restated.
Under US GAAP the fair value of the Deferred Bonus Plan award is spread over the three year vesting period, but under IFRS the fair value is spread over the performance period, which is four years.
For the 2007 financial year, the compensation expense for all types of share based payment arrangements was 91 million 2006: 77 million.
At 31 March 2007 the group had approximately 106 million 2006: 121 million of total unrecognised compensation expense related to non vested share-based compensation arrangements, of which 51 million 2006: 86 million relates to share option schemes.
The total expense is expected to be recognised over a weighted average period of 1.9 years 2006: 2.0 years, and 2.1 years 2006: 2.1 years for share option schemes.
The tax benefit realised from share options exercised and share awards vested during the year was approximately 26 million 2006: 9 million.
Cash proceeds received from the exercise of share options during the year was 123 million 2006: 13 million.
j Goodwill Under UK GAAP, the group wrote off goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures on acquisition prior to 1 April 1998, against retained earnings.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed after 1 April 1998 was capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
Following transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but tested annually for impairment and the amount of goodwill previously recorded at the transition date was carried forward under IFRS.
Under US GAAP up to 31 March 2002, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over its useful life.
142 Goodwill and other intangible assets on 1 April 2002 and goodwill is no longer amortised but tested annually for impairment.
k Property rationalisation provision In the 2003 financial year, a provision in connection with the rationalisation of the groups London ofce property portfolio was recorded.
Under US GAAP, in accordance with SFAS No 146 Accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities, these costs are not recognised until the group fully exits and therefore ceases to use the affected properties.
All these properties were exited by 31 December 2004. l Contingent consideration Under IFRS contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions is recorded when the outcome of the contingency is considered more likely than not.
Under US GAAP the consideration is recorded when the contingent event has occurred.
m Termination benets Under US GAAP the fair value of termination benets for employees who are to be retained beyond their minimum contractual retention period is recognised on a straight line basis over the future service period.
Under IFRS these costs are recognised when the employees agree to leave the group.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued II NET INCOME AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY RECONCILIATION STATEMENTS The following statements summarise the material estimated adjustments, gross of their tax effect, which reconcile net income and total equity from that reported under IFRS to that which would have been reported had US GAAP been applied.
Net income 2007 2006 2005 Years ended 31 March Note m m m profit for the year in accordance with IFRS 2,852 1,548 1,829 profit loss attributable to minority interests 2 1 1 profit attributable to equity shareholders in accordance with IFRS 2,850 1,547 1,830 Adjustment for: Sale and leaseback of properties a 29 18 21 Pension costs b 195 220 333 Capitalisation of interest c 5 16 13 Financial instruments d 175 436 415 Foreign exchange e 39 Deferred taxation f 33 Impairment of property, plant and equipment g 16 38 24 Revenue h 82 Share based payments i 2 1 13 Property rationalisation provision k 5 Termination benets m 20 2,700 860 1,057 Tax effect of US GAAP adjustments 92 203 240 Net income as adjusted for US GAAP 2,792 1,063 1,297 a Basic earnings per American Depositary Share as adjusted for US GAAP 3.37 1.26 1.52 a Diluted earnings per American Depositary Share as adjusted for US GAAP 3.29 1.25 1.51 a Each American Depositary Share is equivalent to ten ordinary shares.
Shareholders equity 2006 a 2007 restated At 31 March Note m m Total equity under IFRS 4,272 1,607 Attributable to minority interest 34 52 Total parent shareholders equity under IFRS 4,238 1,555 Adjustment for: Sale and leaseback of properties a 1,095 1,067 Pension costs b 1,228 Capitalisation of interest c 151 164 Financial instruments d 7 3 Deferred taxation f 74 Impairment of property, plant and equipment g 22 40 Revenue h 82 Goodwill j 123 114 3,276 419 Tax effect of US GAAP adjustments 310 581 Shareholders equity as adjusted for US GAAP 3,586 162 a Restatement of deferred tax valuation allowance as set out in note f on page 135.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 137 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -2129340555 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued Reclassications The following reclassications would need to be made in addition to those disclosed elsewhere and in the above reconciliation of shareholders equity in order to present amounts in accordance with US GAAP.
r Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables would be 562 million higher 2006: 348 million higher see note h. r A finance lease obligation of 2,316 million higher 2006: 2,325 million higher and property, plant and equipment of 669 million higher 2006: 780 million higher would be shown and trade and other payables would be 552 million lower 2006: 478 million lower in respect of the property sale and finance leaseback transaction as described in note a. r Goodwill would be 7 million lower 2006: 10 million lower, other debtors would be 1 million lower 2006: 1 million lower, current liabilities would be the same 2006: 2 million lower and long term borrowings would be 1 million lower 2006: 12 million lower in respect of financial instruments.
r Prior to the adoption of FAS 158 a pension intangible asset was recognised separately from retirement benefit obligations.
Due to the adoption of FAS 158 on 31 March 2007 there is no reclassication required in the current year 2006: 31 million.
r As outlined in note 1, contingent consideration on acquisitions of 15 million 2006: 7 million was not recognised for US GAAP.
This results in goodwill and other payables being lower by 15 million 2006: 7 million.
r The cumulative impact of the above adjustments is: r Current assets 649 million higher 2006: 337 million higher r Non current assets 943 million higher 2006: 1,490 million higher r Current liabilities 164 million higher 2006: 137 million lower r Non current liabilities 2,080 million higher 2006: 3,356 million higher.
III CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS The group cash ow statements are presented in accordance with IAS 7.
The statements prepared under IAS 7 present substantially the same information as that required under SFAS No.
If the cash ow statement had been prepared in accordance with SFAS No 95, the net movement in cash and cash equivalents would have been higher by 130 million 2006: 179 million higher, 2005: unchanged.
This is because under IAS 7, bank overdrafts are classied as a movement in cash and cash equivalents, while under US GAAP, the movements in bank overdrafts are classied as a nancing activity.
IV PENSION COSTS The net liabilities of the BTPS represent substantially all of the groups pensions obligations.
The pension cost determined under FAS 87 was calculated by reference to an expected long-term rate of return on scheme assets of 6.5% 2006: 7.1%, 2005: 7.3%.
The components of the net periodic pension cost for the BTPS comprised: 2007 2006 2005 m m m Service cost 612 538 507 Interest cost 1,787 1,784 1,745 Expected return on scheme assets 2,206 2,042 1,897 Amortisation of prior service costs 24 24 24 Amortisation of loss 150 215 263 Net periodic pension cost under US GAAP 367 519 642 The incremental effects of adopting the provisions of FAS 158 on the groups balance sheet at 31 March 2007, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, are presented in the following table.
The adoption of FAS 158 had no effect on the groups consolidated income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, and will not affect the groups US GAAP net income in future periods.
Prior to Effect of adoption Adoption As reported m m m Intangible assets 1 1 Dened benefit pension plan deficit 2,145 1,852 293 Deferred taxes 644 556 88 Shareholders equity 1,500 1,295 205 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,851 1,851 Deferred taxes 556 556 Accumulated other comprehensive income net of deferred tax 1,295 1,295 138 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1118528491 35.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued The effect on shareholders equity retained earnings as a result of adopting the change in measurement date is 92 million.
This effect is included in the projected benefit obligation in excess of scheme assets prior to the transition adjustments to reect the fully funded status of the plan.
The table below shows the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 March 2007 that have not yet been recognised as components of the pension benets expense in the income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
m Net actuarial gain 1,852 Prior service cost 1 The amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 March 2007 which are expected to be recognised as components of the pension benets expense for the year ended 31 March 2008 in the income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP are shown below.
m Net actuarial gain 154 Prior service cost 1 2007 2006 m m Changes in benefit obligation benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 38,730 34,336 Service cost 612 538 Interest cost 1,787 1,783 Employee contributions 18 21 Actuarial movement 1,732 3,438 Adjustment for change in measurement date 637 Benets paid or payable 1,472 1,385 Translation 1 benefit obligation at the end of the year 38,580 38,730 The accumulated benefit obligation at 31 March 2007 was 37,703 million 2006: 37,850 million.
2007 2006 m m Changes in scheme assets Fair value of scheme assets at the beginning of the year 34,293 29,169 Actual return on scheme assets 3,978 6,039 Employer contributions 919 450 Employee contributions 18 21 Adjustment for change in measurement date 551 Benets paid or payable 1,472 1,385 Translation 1 Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 38,287 34,293 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 139 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1315967753 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued 2007 2006 m m Reconciliation of funded status under US GAAP Projected benefit obligation in excess of scheme assets 293 4,437 Unrecognised prior service costs 31 Other unrecognised net actuarial losses 1,802 Net minimum additional pension liability 953 Net amount recognised under US GAAP 293 3,557 The benefit obligation and pension cost for the BTPS were determined using the following assumptions at 1 January 2006 and 1 January 2005.
For the current financial year the group has early adopted the change in measurement date provisions of FAS 158, and have changed the measurement date to the year end date of 31 March 2007.
The current year assumptions are disclosed in note 29.
2006 2005 per annum per annum % % Discount rate 4.7 5.3 Rate of future pay increases 3.4 3.6 Rate of future pension increases 2.6 2.6 Contributions expected to be paid to the BTPS during the 2008 financial year are estimated at 748 million including 320 million of deficiency contributions.
Estimated future benefit payments are as follows: m Year ending 31 March 2008 1,526 Year ending 31 March 2009 1,591 Year ending 31 March 2010 1,671 Year ending 31 March 2011 1,768 Year ending 31 March 2012 1,862 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2017 10,748 Asset allocation The Trustees of the BTPS approve the target asset allocation as well as deviation limits.
The objective of the investment activities is to maximise investment returns within an acceptable level of risk, taking into consideration the liabilities of the BTPS.
For the 2007 financial year the group has early adopted the change in measurement date provisions of FAS 158, and has changed the measurement date to the year end date of 31 March 2007.
Therefore the 2007 financial year disclosure for each major category of plan assets and the percentage of the fair value of total plan assets is disclosed in note 29.
The prior year disclosures are presented below: Period ended 31 December 2005 Fair value Target bn % % Equities 20.3 59 58 Fixed interest securities 5.4 16 16 Index linked securities 3.2 9 9 Property 4.2 12 12 Cash and other 1.2 4 5 34.3 100 100 The assumption for the expected return on scheme assets is a weighted average based on an assumed expected return for each asset class and the proportions held for each asset class at the beginning of the year.
The expected returns on bonds are based on the gross redemption yields at the start of the year.
Expected returns on equities and property are based on a combination of an estimate of the risk premium above, yields on government bonds and consensus economic forecasts on future returns.
The expected return of 7.1% per annum used for the calculation of pension costs for the year ended 31 March 2006 is consistent with that adopted for IAS 19.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued V INCOME STATEMENT IN US GAAP FORMAT The group income statements on page 86 comply with IFRS and the directors believe they are in the most appropriate format for shareholders to understand the results of our business.
We believe that it is important to show our results before deducting specic items because these predominantly relate to items which are significant, one-off or unusual in nature.
For SEC reporting purposes this presentation may be considered non GAAP and therefore the group has also prepared the following income statement.
The numbers disclosed in the following income statement are prepared under IFRS.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Revenue 20,223 19,514 18,429 Operating expenses: Payroll costs 4,505 4,066 3,832 Depreciation and amortisation 2,920 2,884 2,844 Payments to telecommunication operators 4,162 4,045 3,725 Other operating expenses 6,328 6,251 5,587 Total operating expenses 17,915 17,246 15,988 Net operating income 2,308 2,268 2,441 Other income, net 255 228 551 Net interest expense 94 472 599 Income taxes 368 492 525 Equity in earnings losses of investees 15 16 39 Minority interests 2 1 1 Net income 2,850 1,547 1,830 Earnings per share basic 34.4p 18.4p 21.5p Earnings per share diluted 33.6p 18.1p 21.3p VI ADDITIONAL US GAAP INFORMATION Intangible asset amortisation The total amortisation charge expected under US GAAP in 2008 is 589 million.
As a consequence of the pattern of amortisation applied this annual charge will decrease in each of the following four years to be approximately 53 million for the year ended 31 March 2012.
US GAAP Developments In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments an amendment to FASB statements No 133 and 140 FAS 155, that amends SFAS No 133 Accounting for derivative Instruments and hedging activities FAS 133 and SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities FAS 140.
This statement resolves issues addressed in FAS 133 Implementation Issue No.
D1, Application of Statement 133 to beneficial Interests in Securitised Financial Assets.
The statement permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation.
Additionally it claries which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of FAS 133.
FAS 155 also establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitised financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation.
It claries that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives.
Also FAS 155 amends FAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument.
FAS 155 is effective for BT for all financial instruments acquired or issued after 31 March 2007.
The group does not expect this to have a material impact on the financial statements.
In March 2006 the FASB issued SFAS No 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets: an amendment of FASB No 140 FAS 156 that amends SFAS No 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities with respect to the accounting for separately recognised servicing assets and servicing liabilities.
FAS 156 is effective for BT from 1 April 2007.
The group does not anticipate that the adoption of this new statement at the required effective date will have a significant effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash ows.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 141 Financial statements Filename: 51384 09.3d Time: 15:19:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -459095209 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
UNITED STATES GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES continued In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No 157, Fair Value Measurements FAS 157.
FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
The provisions of this standard apply to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.
FAS 157 applies for the groups financial year beginning 1 April 2008.
The group is currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of FAS 157 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No 159, The Fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities FAS 159.
FAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure, on an item by item basis, specified financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are required to be reported in earnings at each reporting date.
FAS 159 is effective for the 2009 financial year, the provisions of which are required to be applied prospectively.
The group is currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of FAS 159 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No 109 FIN 48.
FIN 48 requires tax benets from uncertain positions to be recognised only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable based on its technical merits.
The interpretation also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures, including discussion of reasonably possible changes that might occur in unrecognised tax benets over the next 12 months, a description of open tax years by major jurisdiction, and a roll-forward of all unrecognised tax benets.
FIN 48 applies for the groups financial year beginning 1 April 2007.
The group is currently in the process of quantifying the impact, if any, on the consolidated financial statements.
In September 2006, the FASB ratied Emerging Issues Task Force No 06-01 Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to Manufactures or Resellers of Equipment Necessary for an End-Customer to Receive Service from the Service Provider EITF 06-01.
This guidance requires the application of EITF 01-09 Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Service providers end customer EITF 01-09, when consideration is given to a reseller or manufacturer for benefit to the service providers end customer.
EITF 01-09 requires the consideration given to be recorded as a liability at the time of the sale of the equipment and, also, provides guidance for the classication of the expense.
EITF 06-01 is effective for the groups financial year beginning 1 April 2008.
142 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
