Principal interests in Group undertakings Subsidiary undertakings Group interest in equity capital Country of incorporation per cent Nature of business Welding, cutting and automation Europe ESAB AB Sweden 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Vamberk s. r. o. Czech Republic 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting Systems GmbH Germany 100 Oxy-fuel, plasma, laser and water jet cutting ESAB Mor Kft Hungary 100 Welding consumables ESAB Sp z o. o. Poland 100 Welding consumables ESAB Saldatura S. p. A. Italy 100 Welding consumables and equipment OOO ESAB Russia 100 Welding consumables and equipment North America iv The ESAB Group Inc. USA 100 Welding consumables and equipment South America ESAB SA Industria e Comercio Brazil 100 Welding consumables and equipment Conarco Alambres y Soldaduras S. A. Argentina 100 Welding consumables and equipment China ESAB Welding and Cutting Products Shanghai Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Welding Products Jiangsu Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting and Automation Shanghai Co Limited China 100 Cutting and automation Asia Pacific ESAB Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore 100 Welding consumables and equipment HD Engineering Limited Hong Kong 100 Drilling machines, components and accessories v ESAB India Limited India 56 Welding consumables and equipment v ESAB Engineering Services Limited India 89 Research and development United Arab Emirates ESAB Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates 100 Welding consumables and equipment Air and gas handling Europe Howden UK Limited Northern Ireland 100 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers Howden France France 100 Industrial fans Howden BC Compressors France 100 Compressors Howden Netherlands BV Netherlands 100 Industrial fans HowdenTurbowerke GmbH Germany 100 Industrial fans Howden Ventilatoren GmbH Germany 100 Industrial and utility fans Howden Denmark A S Denmark 100 Industrial and utility fans Howden Spain SL Spain 100 Heat exchangers Howden Compressors Limited Scotland 100 Screw compressors James Howden & Company Limited trading as Howden Process Compressors Scotland 100 Screw compressor packages and blowers North America iv Howden Buffalo Inc. USA 100 Industrial and utility fans South America Howden South America Ventiladores E Compressores Industria Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Industrial fans and heat exchangers Asia Pacific Howden Hua Engineering Co Limited China 70 Industrial and utility fans, heat exchangers, compressors and blowers Howden Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers South Africa Howden Africa Holdings Limited South Africa 55 Industrial and utility fans, heat exchangers, gas cleaning equipment, pumps and cooling systems Associated undertaking ESAB SeAH Corporation South Korea 50 Welding consumables i The associated undertaking has only one class of capital.
ii The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
iii The Group undertakings above are all held by subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
A full list of Group undertakings will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
iv The ESAB Group Inc. and Howden Buffalo Inc. are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Anderson Group Inc. the holding company of the Groups North America businesses.
v During the year a further 18 per cent of ESAB India Limited was acquired and consequently it is now a 56 per cent owned subsidiary.
