Audit opinion parent company financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Charter plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the parent company financial statements of Charter on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Company An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied of Charter plc for the year ended 31 December 2007. and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Directors Remuneration report and the parent company financial us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Remuneration report to be audited are free from material Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited presentation of information in the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Opinion including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys In our opinion: members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the parent company financial statements give a true and fair accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
at 31 December 2007: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial the parent company financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company Directors Remuneration report to be audited have been properly financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the parent company financial statements.
information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors  LLP report includes that specific information presented in the Business and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial review that is cross referred from the Business and financial London review section of the Directors report.
12 March 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has Notes: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the a The maintenance and integrity of the Charter plc website is the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, transactions is not disclosed.
the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially We read other information contained in the Annual Report and presented on the website.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statement, the Business and financial review, the unaudited part of in other jurisdictions.
the Remuneration report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
