Audit opinion group financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Charter plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the group financial statements of Charter plc for on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and income and expense and the related notes.
These group financial judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are out therein.
appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Charter plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide is described as having been audited.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable in the group financial statements.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Opinion Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the and cash flows for the year then ended: companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 the group financial statements have been properly prepared of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the IAS Regulation: and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the information given in the Directors report is consistent with consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial  LLP statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the London Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also 12 March 2008 report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Notes: Directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Charter plc website is the The information given in the Directors report includes that specific responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors information presented in the Business and financial review that does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, is cross referred from the Business and financial review section the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may of the Directors report.
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received presented on the website.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Business and financial review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
