Independent Auditors Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2007 Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO Directors Report is consistent with the parent company THE MEMBERS OF CHEMRING GROUP PLC financial statements.
The information given in the We have audited the parent company financial statements of Directors Report includes that specific information Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2007 presented in the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Total the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of that is cross referred from the Review of the year and Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related Notes 1 to results section of the Directors Report.
These parent company financial statements have been In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all We have reported separately on the Group financial the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration 31 October 2007 and on the information in the Directors and other transactions is not disclosed.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the annual This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a report as described in the contents section and consider body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act whether it is consistent with the audited parent company 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might financial statements.
We consider the implications for our state to the Companys members those matters we are report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements required to state to them in an auditors report and for no or material inconsistencies with the parent company other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the any further information outside the annual report.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Basis of audit opinion work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective responsibilities of directors and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the auditors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent disclosures in the individual company financial statements.
It company financial statements in accordance with applicable also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set individual company financial statements, and of whether the out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Directors Report.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration information and explanations which we considered Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to regulatory requirements and International Standards on give reasonable assurance that the parent company Auditing UK and Ireland.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy company financial statements give a true and fair view and of the presentation of information in the parent company whether the parent company financial statements have financial statements.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 82 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 OPINION In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2007: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Southampton, United Kingdom 22 January 2008 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 83
