Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 March 2007 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Big Yellow Group PLC is a company incorporated in the Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 34.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the business review on pages 11 to 15.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2006.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and IFRS 8 Operating Segments were in issue at the date of authorisation of the financial statements but not yet effective.
IFRS 7 and IFRS 8 affect only disclosures and therefore have no material impact of the financial statements of the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis except that investment properties and derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The principal accounting polices have been applied consistently, to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements in the current and preceding year.
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of Big Yellow Group PLC and all its subsidiaries at the year end using acquisition accounting principles.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts derived from the provision of services which fall within the Groups ordinary activities after deduction of trade discounts and any applicable value added tax.
Income is recognised over the period for which the storage unit is occupied by the customer.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after gains on revaluation of investment properties and before gains and losses on non-current assets, investment income and finance costs.
Finance costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
