Notice of the Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Members of the Company will be held at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on 11 July 2007 at 10.00 a. m. to transact the following business all resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions save for resolutions numbered 10 and 11 which will be proposed as special resolutions : 1.
To receive the Directors Report and Accounts and the Auditors Report thereon for the year ended 31 March 2007.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Upon the recommendation of the Directors, to declare a dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary Share to be payable to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 15 June 2007.
To re-elect Nicholas Vetch as a Director of the Company, who retires by rotation under the articles of association of the Company.
To re-elect David White as a Director of the Company, who retires by rotation under the articles of association of the Company.
To re-elect Philip Burks as a Director of the Company, who retires by rotation under the articles of association of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 8.
THAT the Company be authorised to use electronic means to convey information to its shareholders and to send or supply documents or information to its shareholders by making them available on a website.
THAT the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused pursuant to and in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,818,892.
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008, except that the Company may at any time before the expiry of this authority make any offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 9, the Directors be and are empowered in substitution for any previous powers granted to the Directors to the extent unused pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by resolution 9 and or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 162D of the Act, in each case as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: a any such allotment and or sale of equity securities in connection with an issue or offer by way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors, to holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on the register on any record date fixed by the Directors in proportion as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, of equity securities for cash having, in the case of relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of the Act, an aggregate nominal value, or, in the case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant shares having an aggregate nominal value, not exceeding in aggregate the sum of 572,834.
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general authority conferred on the Directors by resolution 9 expires, except that the Company may at any time before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity securities held as treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
65 Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued 11.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Article 53 of the Companys Articles of Association and for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of its own ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 11,456,676 representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is not more than 5 per cent above the average of the market values for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and the minimum price which may be paid for such ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share exclusive of expenses : and c unless previously revoked or varied, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 save that the Company may make a purchase of ordinary shares after the expiry of such authority in execution of a contract of purchase that was made under and before the expiry of such authority.
Registered Office: By Order of the Board Unit 2 The Deans M Cole Bridge Road Company Secretary Bagshot Surrey GU19 5AT 30 May 2007 NOTES i Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders and, to be effective, must be deposited at the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC of PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
ii The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6 p. m. on 9 July 2007 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after this time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
iii The Register of Directors Interests will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
iv Copies of all Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the conclusion of the meeting and at the Annual General Meeting, during and for 15 minutes prior to such meeting.
66 Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued EXPLANATORY NOTES ON THE RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTION 1: Report and Accounts The Directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the Directors Report and Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year ended 31 March 2007.
RESOLUTION 2: Directors Remuneration The Directors are required to compile a remuneration report for the financial year under review which is set out in the Annual Report & Accounts and to put to members at the Annual General Meeting a resolution to approve this report.
RESOLUTION 3: Declaration of Dividend Payments of dividends are permitted under the Companies Act 1985 where profits are available for that purpose.
The Companys articles of association permit the payment of final dividends by ordinary resolution.
RESOLUTIONS 4, 5 and 6: Re-appointment of Directors The Companys Articles of Association require that: a one third of the Directors or if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to, but not greater than, one third of the Directors shall retire from office by rotation: and b the Directors to retire by rotation shall be first, any Director who wishes to retire and not offer himself for re-election and secondly, those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment and in addition any Director who has not been re-appointed as a Director at either of the two previous annual general meetings of the Company must retire.
Accordingly, Nicholas Vetch, David White and Philip Burks are retiring by rotation and are offering themselves for re-appointment by the shareholders.
Short biographies of each of the Directors offering themselves for re-appointment are contained on page 35 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 7: Re-appointment of Auditors The Auditors of the Company must be re-appointed at each General Meeting at which Accounts are presented.
The Directors propose to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company.
RESOLUTION 8: Approval of use of electronic communications The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act has introduced provisions designed to make it easier for companies to use the internet to communicate with shareholders, and so reduce printing and distribution costs.
Although it has been possible for some years for companies to use electronic means to deliver certain documents to shareholders, the 2006 Act has extended the range of information that can be communicated electronically and relaxed certain requirements for communication by website.
As before, a company cannot send a shareholder material by e-mail unless the shareholder has agreed to this, and has supplied an electronic address for that purpose.
Where, however, a company that complies with the requirements of the 2006 Act wishes to communicate information to shareholders by making it available on a website, each shareholder who has been invited to accept this form of delivery and has not objected within 28 days is deemed to have agreed to it.
If resolution 8 is passed, the Company will be able to send shareholders a written request which must set out the consequences of a failure to respond to agree to website delivery, and may deem the shareholder to have agreed unless the shareholder objects within 28 days.
If a shareholder declines website delivery, that shareholder will continue to receive documents by post in the usual way and the Company will not be permitted to seek that shareholders deemed agreement to website delivery for at least 12 months.
Those shareholders who do not object to website delivery will no longer receive documents by post.
They will, however, receive notification as and when key information is made available on the Companys website, with details of how to access it.
This notification will be given by post or, if the shareholder has agreed, by e-mail.
In addition, shareholders will still have the right, once they have received information electronically, to require the Company to send a hard copy of that information, free of charge, within 21 days, and they may also opt for all information to be sent in hard copy form.
RESOLUTION 9: Authority to the Directors to allot shares Under the Companies Act 1985 the Directors may only allot shares if authorised to do so.
If passed, this resolution will authorise the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,818,892 up to 38,188,920 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each, which is equal to approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 May 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
At the date of this notice the Company held no treasury shares.
The authority will expire 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008.
Passing this resolution will continue the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
The Directors currently have no intention of issuing new shares, except on the exercise of options under the Companys share schemes.
67 Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued RESOLUTION 10: Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings, in compliance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
If passed, this resolution will authorise the Directors to modify these rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to issue a limited number of shares for cash and or sell treasury shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 May 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice up to 5,728,338 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The authority will expire at the same time as the authority to allot shares given pursuant to resolution 9.
The Directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in this resolution.
RESOLUTION 11: Authority as to Purchase Own Shares This resolution will authorise the Company to purchase its own shares subject to the constraints set out in the resolution.
The Directors will resolve that the Company make purchases under this authority only if satisfied that it was in the interests of the shareholders as a whole to do so and that it was likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The resolution sets out the maximum and minimum prices that can be paid.
Shares purchased out of distributable profits by the Company pursuant to resolution 11, may be held in treasury for later sale, cancellation or, providing Listing Rules requirements are met, transfer to an Employee Benefit Trust, instead of being cancelled immediately, providing that certain statutory requirements are met and that such shares held in treasury do not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Shares held in treasury can be held indefinitely pending, for example, a suitable time to place them back on the market.
This will enable the Company to sell shares held in treasury to take advantage of capital growth in its own shares.
Sales of treasury shares must be for cash and are subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The Directors current intention is that shares purchased pursuant to this authority to the extent statutory requirements are met will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash, or provided Listing Rule requirements are met transfer for the purpose of or pursuant to an employee share scheme.
However, shares repurchased by the Company, may, in the light of the circumstances existing at the time of the repurchase, also be immediately cancelled.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as if they had been cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
As at 30 May 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice, options were outstanding over 4,160,661 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the Company representing approximately 3.63% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date.
If the proposed market purchase authority were used in full, shares over which options were outstanding would, as at 30 May 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice, represent approximately 4.04% of the Companys adjusted issued share capital at that date.
Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Printed by CTD 68 Big Yellow Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Big Yellow Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Big Yellow Group PLC 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey GU19 5AT Tel: 01276 470190 Fax: 01276 470191 e-mail: info@bigyellow.
co. uk Get some space in your life.
Enter Get a quote Reserve online View our TV ad www.
