GLOSSARY OF TERMS Annualised net rents are gross rents as at reporting date plus, where Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head rent reviews are outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value as leases.
determined by the Groups external valuers, less any ground rents payable Property Income Distribution PID.
As a REIT the Group is now obliged under head leases.
to distribute 90% of the tax exempt profits, which is referred to as the PID.
Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a project Distributions by the Group from 1 January 2007 will be split between the PID to completion, excluding site values and finance costs.
from which withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax will be deducted and a normal dividend.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment property revaluations and gains on disposals, intangible asset movements and their Real Estate Investment Trust REIT.
A listed property company which related taxation and the REIT conversion charge.
qualifies for and has elected into a tax regime, which exempts qualifying UK property rental income and gains on investment property disposals from EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets excluding the corporation tax.
British Land converted to REIT status on 1 January 2007. mark to market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt adjustments, deferred taxation on revaluations and the effect of those shares potentially Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external issuable under employee share schemes.
valuers, where the passing rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space and EPRA NAVper share is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted number of shares expiry of rent free periods.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt and to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Securitisation is a financing technique where the income stream of an asset Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as to is used to service the interest and principal repayments on the relevant the open market rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably be debt instruments.
expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Under accounting rules the value of lease Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield incentives given to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a and represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of straight-line basis to the earliest lease termination date.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the Groups external valuers assume rent received annually Total return return on shareholders equity is the growth in EPRA NAV per in arrears and on gross values including prospective purchasers costs.
share plus dividends paid expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
It may be stated before net refinancing charges Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and excludes or other exceptional items.
its share of funds and joint ventures.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of underlying profit before tax Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed less related taxation divided by the weighted average number of shares in as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered by Underlying profit before tax is the profit for the period before taxation after underlying profit before net interest payable and taxation.
excluding amortisation of intangible assets and impairment charges, net IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd which produces an independent valuation gains including profits on disposals, other receivables of a capital benchmark of property returns.
nature, net refinancing charges and costs relating to REIT conversion.
Loan to value LTV is the ratio of net debt excluding the mark to market on Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed effective cash flow hedges and related debt adjustments, to the aggregate as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding value of properties, investments in funds and joint ventures and other development properties.
Each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net rental income will differ from debt in issue at the period end.
annualised net rents and passing rent due to the effects of income from rent Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative costs reviews, net property outgoings and accounting adjustments SIC 15 for per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews and lease incentives.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to expiry interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration across the portfolio weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers assuming all break clauses are exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
Excludes short-term licences and residential leases.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
116 The British Land Company PLC
