NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Basis of preparation The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 have Other investments been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation Other investments are shown at fair value.
Gains and losses arising of properties, investments and derivatives.
The financial statements from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
included in the income statement for the period.
Impairment losses These accounting policies have been applied consistently in all recognised in the income statement are not subsequently reversed material respects, with the exception that following an amendment through the income statement.
to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement revaluation of other investments is now taken to equity rather than Properties recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
This Properties are externally valued on an open market basis at the change has no impact on the Groups net assets and the comparative balance sheet date.
Investment and development properties are results have been restated on a consistent basis.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, IFRS 7 Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to or investment properties being redeveloped is recognised in the IAS 1 on capital disclosures was in issue.
IFRS 7 will require additional income statement.
disclosure on financial instruments when it comes into effect for the Valuation surpluses arising on other development properties, year commencing 1 April 2007.
The revised standard IAS 23 those not previously classified as investment properties, are Borrowing Costs was issued in March 2007, effective from 1 January reflected in the statement of recognised income and expense, 2009.
Upon adoption, the revised standard will have no impact on the unless a deficit reduces the value below cost, in which case the financial statements.
deficit is charged to the income statement.
The key external business, internal management and process The cost of properties in the course of development includes risks are detailed in the Operating and Financial Review.
attributable interest and other associated outgoings.
Interest is calculated on the development expenditure by reference to specific Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds borrowings where relevant and otherwise on the average rate The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land applicable to short-term loans.
Interest is not capitalised where Company PLC and all subsidiaries entities controlled by British no development activity is taking place.
A property ceases to be Land.
Control is assumed where British Land has the power to treated as a development property on practical completion.
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses so as to gain benefits from its activities.
arising are recognised through the income statement, the profit on The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds or disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
Accounting practices accounting period plus additions in the period.
of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which differ from Group In determining whether leases and related properties represent accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
operating or finance leases, consideration is given to whether the Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards of ownership.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Head leases acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as Where an investment property is held under a head lease it is initially goodwill.
Any discount received is credited to the income statement recognised as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition in the period of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
The income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included in Joint ventures and associates, including funds, are accounted for the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
under the equity method, whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures Intangible assets and associates.
The consolidated income statement incorporates the Intangible assets, such as customer contracts, acquired through Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
Their business combinations, are measured initially at fair value and are profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, and are subject to regular reviews for impairment.
86 The British Land Company PLC Goodwill Management and performance fees Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Management and performance fees receivable are recognised in the cost of acquisition over the Group's interest in the fair value of the period to which they relate, except for performance fee retentions identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or jointly subject to clawback, which are recognised over the clawback controlled entity at the time of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as performance period.
In assessing the risk of clawback, account is an asset and reviewed for impairment annually.
Any impairment is taken of the unpredictability of future relative performance against recognised immediately in the income statement and is not the benchmark.
Taxation Financial obligations and cash Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Finance using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted.
charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income and direct issue costs are spread over the period to redemption, statement because it excludes items of income or expense that using the effective interest method.
are not taxable or tax deductible.
In particular the Group became As defined by IAS 39, cash flow and fair value hedges are carried a REIT on 1 January 2007 and income and gains on qualifying assets at fair value in the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of are now exempt from taxation.
Current and prior year tax payable derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective cash flow is estimated.
hedges are recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Changes Deferred tax is provided on items that may become taxable in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as at a later date, on the difference between the balance sheet value effective fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, and tax base value, on an undiscounted basis.
On business along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is combinations, the deferred tax effect of fair value adjustments attributable to the hedged risk.
Any ineffective portion is recognised is incorporated in the consolidated balance sheet.
Cash equivalents are limited to instruments with a maturity of Employee costs less than three months.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line Net rental income basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A rent adjustment or options that will eventually vest.
In the case of options granted, fair based on open market estimated rental value is recognised from the value is measured by a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Compensation rent review date in relation to unsettled rent reviews.
Where a rent free linked to performance fees accrued by the Group is amortised over period is included in a lease, the rental income foregone is allocated the vesting period.
evenly over the period from the date of lease commencement to the Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fair earliest termination date.
Rental income from fixed and minimum values: pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected guaranteed rent reviews is recognised on a straight-line basis over unit credit method and discounted at the rate of return of a highthe shorter of the entire lease term or the period to the first break quality corporate bond of equivalent term to the scheme liabilities.
Where such rental income is recognised ahead of the related The net surplus or deficit is recognised in full in the consolidated cash flow, an adjustment is made to ensure the carrying value of the balance sheet.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to related property including the accrued rent does not exceed the past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and external valuation.
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging a new The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and lease are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period from curtailments are charged to operating profit.
Past service costs are the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
recognised in the income statement if the benefits have vested or, if Where a lease incentive payment, including surrender premiums they have not vested, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the paid, does not enhance the value of a property, it is amortised on a period until vesting occurs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised straight-line basis over the period from the date of lease in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the commencement to the earliest termination date.
Upon receipt of a consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
surrender premium for the early determination of a lease, the profit, Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are net of dilapidations and non-recoverable outgoings relating to the expensed on the basis of the contracted annual contribution.
lease concerned is immediately reflected in income.
The British Land Company PLC 87
