Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities default position without sending documents to shareholders.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, Before the Company can communicate with a member by means directors remuneration report and the financial statements of website communication, the relevant member must be asked in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements and the Company must either have received a positive response or for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also when a relevant document or information is placed on the website required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the and a member can always request a hard copy version of the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standards require that IFRS financial By order of the Board statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This F Desai requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, Company Secretary other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and 10 April 2008 recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
