Glossary of terms Capital allowances deferred tax provision In accordance with Loan to value LTV is the ratio of net debt excluding fair value IAS 12, full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on adjustments for debt and derivatives, to the aggregate value of the benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the properties including the surplus of the open market value over Groups experience the liabilities in respect of capital allowances the book value of trading properties, investments in joint ventures provided are unlikely to crystallise in practice and are therefore and funds and other investments.
excluded when arriving at EPRA NAV.
Like for like LfL gures exclude the impact of property CRPM Capital & Regional Property Management Limited is a purchases and sales on year-to-year comparatives.
subsidiary of Capital & Regional plc and earns the management and performance fees arising from Capital & Regionals interests Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale in the associated Funds and joint ventures.
of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Contribution comprises Capital & Regionals share of the net rents Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the less net interest arising from Capital & Regionals interests in its Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction joint ventures, associates and wholly-owned entities, including of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent foreign exchange forward points movements.
CULS is the Convertible Subordinated Unsecured Loan Stock.
Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds divided by the number of shares held by shareholders at the period end, excluding EPRA adjusted fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect own shares held.
of those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee share options and excluding own shares held.
The unrealised gains Net rent is Capital & Regionals share, on a see through basis, of and capital allowances deferred tax provision, the fair value of the rental income, less property and management costs excluding borrowings net of tax and the fair value of trading properties are performance fees, of the Group, its associates and joint ventures.
Net interest is Capital & Regionals share, on a see through basis, EPRA earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation of the interest payable less interest receivable of the Group, its excluding gains on asset disposals and revaluations and their associates and joint ventures.
related taxation, movements in the fair value of financial instruments, intangible asset movements and the capital Passing rent is the gross rental income excluding the effects of allowance effects of IAS 12 where applicable, less taxation arising tenant incentives.
on these items, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held.
Valuation of properties for whom CRPM is the asset manager.
EPRA triple net, fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect of those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee Return on equity is the total return, including revaluation gains share options and excluding own shares held.
NAV is adjusted for and losses, divided by opening equity plus time weighted additions the fair value of debt and the fair value of trading properties.
to share capital, excluding share options exercised, less reductions in share capital.
Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, Recurring pre-tax profit is the sum of Contribution plus could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or management fees, SNO!zone income less SNO!zone expenses, rent review of a property.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and Recurring pre-tax profit per share is the recurring pre-tax reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce profit divided by the weighted average number of shares less based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with own shares held.
usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the Groups external valuers assume rent received annually in arrears and on Reversion is the estimated increase in rent at review where the gross values including prospective purchasers cost.
gross rent is below the estimated rental value.
ERV growth is the total growth in ERV on properties owned Reversionary percentage is the percentage by which the ERV throughout the year including growth due to development.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield See through gearing includes our share of non-recourse net will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
debt in the associates and joint ventures.
See through balance sheet is the pro forma proportionately Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio consolidated balance sheet of the Group, its associates and joint expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding ventures.
See through income statement is the pro forma proportionately IPD is Independent Property Databank Ltd, a company that consolidated income statement of the Group, its associates and produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
84 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 Total return is the Groups total recognised income for the year as set out in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense SORIE expressed as a percentage of opening equity shareholders funds, excluding CULS reserve.
Total shareholder return is the growth in price per share plus dividends per share.
Triple net, fully diluted NAV per share includes the dilutive effect of share options and CULS and adjusts all items to market value, including trading properties and xed rate debt.
SIC 15 Operating lease incentives debtors under accounting rules the balance sheet value of lease incentives given to tenants is deducted from property valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through the income statement.
Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Variable overhead includes discretionary bonuses and the cost of awards to employees made under the LTIP and CAP and is spread over the performance period.
