During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, all net changes in the Trademarks fair value of both our fair value hedges and the offsetting the costs of developing and maintaining our trademarks hedged firm commitments and our cash flow hedges were are expensed as incurred.
For certain of our acquisitions we immaterial, as were any ineffective portions of these hedges.
have allocated a portion of the purchase prices to the acquirees no fair value hedges or cash flow hedges were derecognized identified trademarks.
trademarks are estimated to have an or discontinued in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. in addition, the indefinite useful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, but amount of realized net losses or gains from cash flow hedges are reviewed for impairment annually, or, when events or that were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2007, 2006 circumstances dictate, more frequently.
our trademarks would and 2005 were not significant.
the amount of estimated cash be considered impaired if their carrying value exceeds their flow hedges unrealized net losses which are expected to be estimated fair value.
reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is also Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities not significant.
We utilize derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, if any shipyard with which we have contracts to build our such as foreign currency swaps, foreign currency debt obligaships is unable to perform, we would be required to perform tions and foreign currency cash balances, to limit our exposure under our foreign currency swaps related to these shipbuilding to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and interest contracts.
accordingly, based upon the circumstances, we rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure and to may have to discontinue the accounting for those currency achieve a desired proportion of variable and fixed rate debt swaps as hedges, if the shipyard cannot perform.
However, see notes 5 and 10. we believe that the risk of shipyard nonperformance is remote.
all derivatives are recorded at fair value, and the changes in fair value are immediately included in earnings if the derivaRevenue and Expense Recognition tives do not qualify as being effective hedges.
if a derivative Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and are is a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when received.
derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of the Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as cruise underlying hedged item.
if a derivative is a cash flow hedge, revenues, together with revenues from onboard and other then changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized activities, which include transportation and shore excursion as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income revenues and all associated direct costs of a voyage, upon aoCi until the underlying hedged item is recognized in completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or less and earnings.
if a derivative or a nonderivative financial instrument on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
Future is designated as a hedge of our net investment in a foreign travel discount vouchers issued to guests are typically recorded subsidiary, then changes in the fair value of the financial as a reduction of revenues when such vouchers are utilized.
instrument are recognized as a component of aoCi to offset Cancellation fees are recognized in revenues at the time of a portion of the change in the translated value of the net the cancellation.
revenues and expenses from our tour and investment being hedged, until the investment is liquidated.
travel services are recognized at the time the services are We formally document all hedging relationships for all deriperformed or expenses are incurred.
port and other taxes vative and nonderivative hedges and the underlying hedged assessed on a per guest basis by a government or quasiitems, as well as our risk management objectives and strategovernmental entity are excluded from expenses as they are gies for undertaking the hedge transactions.
presented on a net basis against the corresponding amounts We classify the fair value of our derivative contracts and collected from our guests, which are excluded from revenues.
the fair value of our offsetting hedged firm commitments as our sale to guests of air and other transportation to and either current or long-term, which are included in prepaid from our ships and the related cost of purchasing this service expenses and other assets and accrued and other liabilities, is recorded as cruise passenger ticket revenues and cruise depending on whether the maturity date of the derivative transportation costs, respectively.
the proceeds that we collect contract is within or beyond one year from our balance sheet from the sale of third party shore excursions and on behalf dates.
the cash flows from derivatives treated as hedges are of onboard concessionaires, net of the amounts remitted to classified in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in them, are recorded as concession revenues, on a net basis, the same category as the item being hedged.
in onboard and other cruise revenues.
