MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued lack of continued availability of attractive port destinations: to reduce a portion of the impact of the higher fuel costs.
However, we cannot be certain of the ultimate impact of risks associated with the DLC structure, including the the fuel supplement on our net revenue yields because this uncertainty of its tax status: increase may be partially offset by a reduction in ticket prices.
the impact of pending or threatened litigation: and throughout this five year period we generated significant cash flows and remained in a strong financial position, which our ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans.
is a high priority for us and we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the capital intensive cruise industry.
Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as We continued to distribute excess cash to shareholders through a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing obliincreased dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
gations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, we However, our operations are subject to many risks, as briefly expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the noted under the caption Cautionary note Concerning Factors date of this 2007 annual report, any updates or revisions to that May affect Future results which could adversely any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in impact our future results.
expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which as of January 29, 2008, we had signed agreements with any such statements are based.
three shipyards providing for the construction of 22 additional cruise ships, the majority of which have been designated for ExECUTIvE OvERvIEW our European brands see note 6 in the accompanying finanDuring most of 2007, the cruise industry continued to cial statements.
these new ships are expected to continue to experience solid growth for non-Caribbean product offerings.
help us maintain our leadership position within the world-wide However, there were a number of factors, such as a weaker cruise industry.
the year-over-year percentage increase in our U. S. economy, including the impact on consumers of higher alBD capacity for fiscal 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, fuel costs and tighter credit markets and higher U. S. interest resulting primarily from new ships entering service is currently rates, which we believe had adverse effects on vacationers expected to be 9.
0%, respecdiscretionary income and their confidence in the U. S. econtively.
the above percentages exclude any other future ship omy.
Some of these factors, as well as the lingering effects orders, acquisitions, retirements or sales, however they do of the 2005 hurricane season, contributed to a reduction in include the withdrawal from service of the Pacific Star in March north american-sourced demand for Caribbean cruises and, 2008 and the Queen Elizabeth 2 QE2 in november 2008. accordingly, resulted in lower pricing for most of our Caribbean cruise itineraries during the first half of 2007.
During the secOUTLOOk FOR FISCAL 2008 2008 ond half of fiscal 2007 we experienced a modest increase in most of our north american brands net revenue yields, while as of December 20, 2007, we said that we expected our most of our European brands net revenue yields decreased 2008 full year earnings per share will be in the range of $3.
10 slightly on a constant dollar basis.
We also said that we expected our first quarter 2008 From 2003 through 2007, the cruise industry has been earnings per share to be in the range of $0.
31. our adversely impacted by substantial increases in fuel prices, guidance was based on the then current forward fuel price which reduced earnings per share for the 2007 fiscal year by for full year 2008 and the 2008 first quarter of $486 and $484 $0.
10 compared to fiscal 2006. in 2003 our per metric ton of per metric ton, respectively.
in addition, this guidance was fuel cost was $179, whereas in 2007, our per metric ton cost also based on currency exchange rates of $1.
44 to the Euro of fuel was $361, an increase of 102%.
this has been the weakening of the U. S. dollar relative to the our 2008 full year earnings per share guidance remains Euro and Sterling, which benefited us in higher dollar profits unchanged based on our most recent internal forecast, as from our European operations.
it is possible that fuel prices adjusted by our January 22, 2008 full year forward fuel price will remain at high levels throughout fiscal 2008 and thereestimate of $484 per metric ton and foreign currency exchange after.
We have recently implemented a new fuel supplement rates of $1.
fee across substantially all of our brands, which should help 32 | Carnival Corporation & plC
