MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued financing from banks or through the issuance of debt and or in June 2006, the Boards of Directors authorized the repuroffering of equity securities in the public or private markets.
chase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival Corporation However, we cannot be certain that our future operating cash common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares subject to flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations or that we will certain restrictions.
on September 19, 2007, the Boards of be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary.
Directors increased the remaining $578 million authorization back to $1 billion.
the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued by our Boards OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEmENTS of Directors at any time.
the Carnival plc share repurchase We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, authorization requires annual shareholder approval.
During including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, the 2007 fourth quarter and from December 1, 2007 through certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, January 28, 2008 we purchased 4.
3 million that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or ordinary shares of Carnival plc, which are not registered under future material effect on our financial statements.
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange act at an average price of $43.
6 FOREIGN CURRENCY ExCHANGE RATE RISkS million shares, respectively of Carnival Corporation common stock at an average share price of $44.
63, respecour growing international business operations are contively.
Carnival plc ordinary shares are listed on the london ducted primarily through aiDa in Germany, Costa in Southern Stock Exchange.
at January 28, 2008 the remaining availabilEurope and China, ibero Cruises in Spain, p&o Cruises, ocean ity pursuant to our repurchase program was $788 million.
village and Cunard in the UK and p&o Cruises australia in at november 30, 2007, as adjusted for the $1.
50 billion australia, which subject us to an increasing level of foreign short-term revolving credit facilities we entered into in January currency exchange risk related to the Euro, Sterling and 2008, we had liquidity of $5.
31 billion, which consisted of australian dollar because these operations have either the $943 million of cash and cash equivalents, $1.
08 billion availEuro, Sterling or australian dollar as their functional currency.
able for borrowing under our Facility, $1.
50 billion under our accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations of the Euro, Sterling short-term revolving credit facilities and $1.
78 billion under or australian dollar against the U. S. dollar will affect our committed ship financing facilities.
Substantially all of our reported financial results since the reporting currency for our Facility matures in 2012. in addition, in June 2007 we entered consolidated financial statements is the U. S. dollar and the into an agreement to sell Cunard lines QE2 for delivery to the functional currency for our international operations is generally buyer in november 2008 for $100 million.
a key to our access the local currency.
any weakening of the U. S. dollar against to liquidity is the maintenance of our strong credit ratings.
these local functional currencies has the financial statement Based primarily on our historical results, current financial effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values reported for cruise condition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing revenues and cruise expenses in our Consolidated Stateliquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient ments of operations.
Strengthening of the U. S. dollar has to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service the opposite effect.
requirements, convertible debt redemptions, dividend payWe seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign ments, working capital and other firm commitments over the currency exchange rates through our normal operating and next several years.
in addition, based on our future forecasted financing activities, including netting certain exposures to operating results and cash flows for fiscal 2008, we expect take advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered to be in compliance with our debt covenants during 2008. appropriate, through the use of derivative and nonderivative However, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, financial instruments.
the financial impacts of these hedging as well as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by instruments are generally offset by corresponding changes various factors including, but not limited to, those factors in the underlying exposures being hedged.
our policy is to noted under Cautionary note Concerning Factors that May not use any financial instruments for trading or other specuaffect Future results.
to the extent that we are required, or lative purposes.
choose, to fund future cash requirements, including our future one of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than as disis related to our outstanding commitments under ship concussed above, we believe that we will be able to secure such struction contracts denominated in a currency other than the 40 | Carnival Corporation & plC
