NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued NOTE 2 SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our ACCOUNTING POLICIES ships are capitalized to the ships, and depreciated over the improvements estimated useful lives, while costs of repairs Basis of Presentation and maintenance, including minor improvement costs, are We consolidate entities over which we have control see charged to expense as incurred.
We capitalize interest as part notes 3 and 15, as typically evidenced by a direct ownership of acquiring ships and other capital projects during their coninterest of greater than 50%.
For affiliates where significant struction period.
the specifically identified or estimated cost influence over financial and operating policies exists, as typiand accumulated depreciation of previously capitalized ship cally evidenced by a direct ownership interest from 20% to components are written off upon replacement or refurbishment.
50%, the investment is accounted for using the equity method.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Cash and cash equivalents include investments with maturamount of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
the ities of three months or less at acquisition, which are stated assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to at cost.
at november 30, 2007 and 2006, cash and cash recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate equivalents are primarily comprised of money market funds, of its undiscounted future cash flows.
if these estimated time deposits and commercial paper.
undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying as of november 30, 2007 and 2006, our short-term investvalue of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the ments were not significant.
purchases and sales of short-term excess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated investments included in our Consolidated Statements of Cash fair value.
Flows consisted of investments with original maturities greater Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major maintethan three months with variable interest rates, which typically finance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out of reset every 28 days.
Despite the long-term nature of their service for scheduled maintenance.
these costs are expensed stated contractual maturities, we generally had the ability to as incurred.
quickly liquidate these securities and, accordingly, they are Goodwill considered short-term investments.
all income generated from We review our goodwill for impairment annually, or, when these investments is recorded as interest income.
events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
all of our goodwill has been allocated to our cruise reporting units.
the Inventories significant changes to our goodwill carrying amounts since inventories consist of provisions, gift shop and art merchannovember 30, 2005 were the changes resulting from using dise held for resale, fuel and supplies carried at the lower of different foreign currency translation rates at each balance cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average sheet date, the addition of $161 million of ibero Cruises goodor first-in, first-out methods.
will in fiscal 2007 see note 15, and the $20 million reduction Property and Equipment to goodwill in fiscal 2006 resulting from the resolution of property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation certain p&o princess Cruises plcs p&o princess tax and amortization were computed using the straight-line method contingency liabilities that existed at the time of the DlC over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, transaction.
as a percentage of original cost, as follows: our goodwill impairment reviews consist of a two-step residual process of first determining the fair value of the reporting unit values Years and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets alloShips............................. 15% 30 cated to the reporting unit.
Fair values of our reporting units Ship improvements.................. 0% or 15% 328 were determined based on our estimates of market values.
if Buildings and improvements.......... 010% 535 this fair value exceeds the carrying value, which was the case Computer hardware and software...... 010% 37 for our reporting units, no further analysis or goodwill writetransportation equipment and other.... 015% 220 down is required.
if the fair value of the reporting unit is less leasehold improvements, including than the carrying value of the net assets, the implied fair value port facilities.....................
Shorter of of the reporting unit is allocated to all the underlying assets and lease term liabilities, including both recognized and unrecognized tangible or related and intangible assets, based on their fair value.
if necessary, asset life goodwill is then written down to its implied fair value.
