MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued including the effect of foreign currency swaps, in our subsidSpecifically, we have interest rate swaps at november 30, iaries functional currencies generally the Euro or Sterling.
2007, which effectively changed $204 million of fixed rate Specifically, we have debt of $1.
89 billion in Euros and $457 debt to liBor-based floating rate debt.
in addition, we have million in Sterling and have $378 million of foreign currency interest rate swaps at november 30, 2007 which effectively swaps, whereby we have converted $378 million of U. S. dollar changed $16 million of EUriBor-based floating rate debt to debt into Euro debt, thus partially offsetting these foreign fixed rate debt.
the fair value of our debt and interest rate currency exchange rate risks.
at november 30, 2007, the fair swaps at november 30, 2007 was $9.
Based upon value of these foreign currency swaps was an unrealized loss a hypothetical 10% decrease or increase in the november 30, of $30 million, which is recorded in aoCi and offsets a portion 2007 market interest rates, assuming no change in currency of the gains recorded in aoCi upon translating these foreign exchange rates, the fair value of our debt and interest rate subsidiaries net assets into U. S. dollars.
Based upon a 10% swaps would increase or decrease by approximately $143 milhypothetical increase or decrease in the november 30, 2007 lion.
in addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or foreign currency exchange rates, assuming no changes in increase in the november 30, 2007 interest rates, our annual comparative interest rates, we estimate that these derivative interest expense on variable rate debt, including the effect contracts fair values would increase or decrease by $38 milof our interest rate swaps, would decrease or increase by lion, which would be offset by a decrease or increase of $38 approximately $13 million.
million in the U. S. dollar value of our net investments.
in addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% increase or Finally, during 2007, we entered into cash flow foreign decrease in Carnival Corporations november 30, 2007 comcurrency swaps that effectively converted $438 million of U. S. mon stock price, the fair value of our convertible notes would dollar fixed interest rate debt into 210 million fixed interest increase or decrease by approximately $102 million.
rate debt that is the functional currency of our operation that these hypothetical amounts are determined by considering has the obligation to repay this debt.
at november 30, 2007, the impact of the hypothetical interest rates and common the fair value of these foreign currency swaps was an unrealstock price on our existing debt and interest rate swaps.
this analysis does not consider the effects of the changes in the ized gain of $3 million.
level of overall economic activity that could exist in such environments or any relationships which may exist between INTEREST RATE RISkS interest rate and stock price movements.
Furthermore, since We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in interest substantially all of our fixed rate debt cannot currently be called rates through our investment and debt portfolio management or prepaid it is unlikely we would be able to take any signifistrategies, which includes purchasing high quality short-term cant steps in the short-term to mitigate our exposure in the investments with variable interest rates, and issuing substanevent of a significant decrease in market interest rates.
tial amounts of fixed rate debt instruments.
We continuously evaluate our debt portfolio, and make periodic adjustments to BUNkER FUEL PRICE RISkS the mix of floating rate and fixed rate debt based on our view of interest rate movements, through the use of interest rate We do not use financial instruments to hedge our exposure swaps.
at november 30, 2007 and 2006, 69% and 68% of to the bunker fuel price market risk.
We estimate that our fiscal the interest cost on our debt was fixed and 31% and 32% 2008 fuel cost would increase or decrease by approximately was variable, including the effect of our interest rate swaps, $3.
3 million for each $1 per metric ton increase or decrease in respectively.
our average bunker fuel price.
