REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REgISTERED CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTINg FIRM to the Boards of Directors and Shareholders of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc: in our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Carnival Corporation & plc comprising Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and their respective subsidiaries, the Company at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended november 30, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of america.
also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring organizations of the treadway Commission CoSo.
the Companys management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements report on internal Control over Financial reporting.
our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public Company accounting oversight Board United States.
those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 1, 2005 the Company adopted Statement of Financial accounting Standards no.
in addition, as discussed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, effective november 30, 2007 the Company adopted Statement of Financial accounting Standards no.
158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plansan amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R. a companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
a companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Miami, Florida January 28, 2008 30 | Carnival Corporation & plC
