our 2008 first quarter forward fuel price estimate has in addition, because a significant portion of our operations increased to $505 per metric ton compared to our December utilize the Euro or Sterling to measure their results and finanguidance, which reduced our earnings per share guidance by cial condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. $0.
02. in addition, our first quarter 2008 results were adversely dollar reporting currency results in increases in reported impacted by $0.
01 per share from aiDaauras unexpected U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens cruise disruptions.
there has also been some softness in against these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported onboard revenues at certain of our contemporary brands, U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthwhich is expected to be offset by other cruise operating items.
ens against these foreign currencies.
accordingly, we also accordingly, our earnings per share for the first quarter of monitor and report our two non-Gaap financial measures 2008 is now expected to be in the range of $0.
28. assuming the current period currency exchange rates have the above forward-looking statements involve risks and remained constant with the prior years comparable period rates, or on a constant dollar basis, in order to remove the uncertainties.
various factors could cause our actual results impact of changes in exchange rates on our non-U.
S. dollar to differ materially from those expressed above including, cruise operations.
We believe that this is a useful measure as but not limited to, fuel costs, economic conditions, weather, it facilitates a comparative view of the growth of our business regulatory changes, geopolitical factors and other factors that in a fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
could impact consumer demand or costs.
You should read the on a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net above forward-looking statements together with the discuscruise costs would be $9.
26 billion for fiscal sion of these and other risks under Cautionary note 2007, respectively.
on a constant dollar basis, gross cruise Concerning Factors that May affect Future results.
revenues and gross cruise costs would be $12.
in addition, our nonkEY PERFORmANCE INDICATORS U. S. dollar cruise operations depreciation and net interest We use net cruise revenues per alBD net revenue expense were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for yields and net cruise costs per alBD as significant nonfiscal 2007 compared to 2006.
Gaap financial measures of our cruise segment financial performance.
We believe that net revenue yields are commonly CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTImATES used in the cruise industry to measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance.
this measure is also used for our critical accounting estimates are those which we believe revenue management purposes.
in calculating net revenue require our most significant judgments about the effect of yields, we use net cruise revenues rather than gross cruise matters that are inherently uncertain.
We believe that net cruise revenues is a more critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and meaningful measure in determining revenue yield than gross uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that matecruise revenues because it reflects the cruise revenues earned rially different estimates would be reported under different by us net of our most significant variable costs, which are conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: travel agent commissions, cost of air transportation and cerShip Accounting tain other variable direct costs associated with onboard and our most significant assets are our ships and ships under other revenues.
Substantially all of our remaining cruise costs construction, which represent 75% of our total assets.
We are largely fixed once our ship capacity levels have been make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our determined, except for the impact of changing prices.
First, we compute our ships depreciation net cruise costs per alBD is the most significant measure expense, which represented approximately 10% of our cruise we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment costs and expenses in fiscal 2007, which requires us to esticosts rather than gross cruise costs per alBD.
in calculating mate the average useful life of each of our ships, as well as net cruise costs, we exclude the same variable costs that are their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improveincluded in the calculation of net cruise revenues.
this is done ment costs by capitalizing those costs which we believe will to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two nonadd value to our ships and depreciate those improvements Gaap financial measures.
over their estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs and Carnival Corporation & plC | 33 MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued method to equitably allocate the costs of our ships to the maintenance and minor improvement costs as they are periods during which services are obtained from their use.
Finally, when we record the retirement of a ship in addition, we believe that the estimates we made are reacomponent that is included within the ships cost basis, we sonable and our methods consistently applied in all material may have to estimate its net book value to determine the respects 1 in determining the average useful life and average amount of ship component retired.
residual values of our ships: 2 in determining which ship We determine the average useful life of our ships and improvement costs add value to our ships: and 3 in detertheir residual values based primarily on our estimates of the mining the net book value of ship component assets being weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships replaced or refurbished.
Finally, we believe our critical ship major component systems, such as cabins, main diesels, main accounting estimates are generally comparable with those of electric, superstructure and hull.
in addition, we consider, other major cruise companies.
among other things, long-term vacation market conditions and competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built ships.
Asset Impairment We have estimated our new ships average useful lives at 30 the impairment reviews of our ships, goodwill and tradeyears and their average residual values at 15% of our original marks, which has been allocated to our cruise line reporting ship cost.
units, require us to make significant estimates to determine Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, ship the fair values of these assets or reporting units.
accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are the determination of fair value includes numerous uncerinherently uncertain.
We do not have cost segregation studies tainties, unless a viable actively traded market exists for the performed to specifically componentize our ships.
in addition, asset or for a comparable reporting unit, which is usually since we do not separately componentize our ships, we do not the case for cruise ships, cruise lines and trademarks.
not identify and track depreciation of specific original ship For example, in determining fair values of ships utilizing discomponents.
therefore, we have to estimate the net book counted forecasted cash flows, significant judgments are made value of components that are replaced or refurbished, based concerning, among other things, future net revenue yields, primarily upon their replacement or refurbishment cost and net cruise costs per alBD, interest and discount rates, cruise their age.
itineraries, technological changes, consumer demand, governif materially different conditions existed, or if we materially mental regulations and the effects of competition.
in addition, changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our third party appraisers are sometimes used to determine fair depreciation expense or loss on replacement or refurbishment values of ships and cruise lines and some of their valuation of ship assets and net book value of our ships would be matemethodologies are also subject to similar types of uncertainrially different.
in addition, if we change our assumptions in ties.
also, the determination of fair values of cruise line reportmaking our determinations as to whether improvements to a ing units using a price earnings multiple approach also requires ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair significant judgments, such as determining reasonable multiand maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a ples.
Finally, determining trademark fair values also requires decrease in depreciation expense, as less costs would have significant judgments in determining both the estimated been initially capitalized to our ships.
our fiscal 2007 ship trademark cash flows, and the appropriate royalty rates to depreciation expense would have increased by approximately be applied to those cash flows to determine their fair value.
$26 million for every year we reduced our estimated average We believe that we have made reasonable estimates and 30 year ship useful life.
in addition, if our ships were estimated judgments in determining whether our ships, goodwill and to have no residual value, our fiscal 2007 depreciation expense trademarks have been impaired.
However, if there is a matewould have increased by approximately $133 million.
rial change in the assumptions used in our determination of We believe that the estimates we made for ship accountfair value or if there is a material change in the conditions or ing purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently circumstances influencing fair value, we could be required applied in all material respects and, accordingly, result in to recognize a material impairment charge.
depreciation expense that is based on a rational and systematic 34 | Carnival Corporation & plC
