Compensation cost under SFaS no.
123 r is recognized to the constituent documents of each of the companies also ratably using the straight-line attribution method over the provide that, on most matters, the holders of the common expected vesting period or to the retirement eligibility date, if equity of both companies effectively vote as a single body.
on less than the vesting period, when vesting is not contingent specified matters where the interests of Carnival Corporations upon any future performance.
in addition, pursuant to SFaS shareholders may differ from the interests of Carnival plcs no.
123 r we are required to estimate the amount of expected shareholders a class rights action, each shareholder body forfeitures, which we estimate based on historical forfeiture will vote separately as a class, such as transactions primarily experience, when calculating compensation cost.
if the actual designed to amend or unwind the DlC structure.
Generally, forfeitures that occur are different from the estimate, then we no class rights action will be implemented unless approved by revise our estimates.
the effect of adopting SFaS no.
in 2006 was to reduce our net income by $57 million and our Upon the closing of the DlC transaction, Carnival Corporation basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.
Fiscal 2005 and Carnival plc also executed the Equalization and Governance was not restated under this transition method.
agreement, which provides for the equalization of dividends and liquidation distributions based on an equalization ratio and Concentrations of Credit Risk contains provisions relating to the governance of the DlC as part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor constructure.
Because the current equalization ratio is 1 to 1, one centrations of credit risk associated with financial and other Carnival plc ordinary share is entitled to the same distribuinstitutions with which we conduct significant business.
Credit tions, subject to the terms of the Equalization and Governance risk, including counterparty nonperformance under derivative agreement, as one share of Carnival Corporation common instruments, contingent obligations and new ship progress stock.
in a liquidation of either company or both companies, payment guarantees, is considered minimal, as we primarily if the hypothetical potential per share liquidation distributions conduct business with large, well-established financial instituto each companys shareholders are not equivalent, taking into tions who have long-term credit ratings of a or above, and account the relative value of the two companies assets and we seek to diversify our counterparties.
in addition, we have the indebtedness of each company, to the extent that one established guidelines regarding credit ratings and investment company has greater net assets so that any liquidation distrimaturities that we follow to maintain safety and liquidity.
We bution to its shareholders would not be equivalent on a per do not anticipate nonperformance by any of our significant share basis, the company with the ability to make a higher net counterparties.
distribution is required to make a payment to the other comWe also monitor the creditworthiness of foreign travel pany to equalize the possible net distribution to shareholders, agencies and tour operators to which we grant credit terms subject to certain exceptions.
in the normal course of our business.
Concentrations of credit at the closing of the DlC transaction, Carnival Corporation risk associated with these receivables are considered minimal and Carnival plc also executed deeds of guarantee.
Under the primarily due to their short maturities and the large number terms of Carnival Corporations deed of guarantee, Carnival of accounts within our customer base.
We have experienced Corporation has agreed to guarantee all indebtedness and only minimal credit losses on our trade receivables.
We do not certain other monetary obligations of Carnival plc that are normally require collateral or other security to support normal incurred under agreements entered into on or after the closing credit sales.
However, we do normally require collateral and or date of the DlC transaction.
the terms of Carnival plcs deed guarantees to support notes receivable on significant asset of guarantee are identical to those of Carnival Corporations.
sales and new ship progress payments to shipyards.
in addition, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have each extended their respective deeds of guarantee to the others NOTE 3DLC STRUCTURE pre-DlC indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations, or alternatively have provided standalone guarantees in lieu of in 2003, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc formerly utilization of these deeds of guarantee, thus effectively cross known as p&o princess completed a DlC transaction, which guaranteeing all Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc indebtimplemented Carnival Corporation & plcs DlC structure.
the edness and certain other monetary obligations.
Each deed of contracts governing the DlC structure provide that Carnival guarantee provides that the creditors to whom the obligations Corporation and Carnival plc each continue to have separate are owed are intended third party beneficiaries of such deed boards of directors, but the boards and senior executive manof guarantee.
agement of both companies are identical.
the amendments Carnival Corporation & plC | 13
