MANAgEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued financing from banks or through the issuance of debt and or in June 2006, the Boards of Directors authorized the repuroffering of equity securities in the public or private markets.
chase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival Corporation However, we cannot be certain that our future operating cash common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares subject to flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations or that we will certain restrictions.
on September 19, 2007, the Boards of be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary.
Directors increased the remaining $578 million authorization back to $1 billion.
the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued by our Boards OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEmENTS of Directors at any time.
the Carnival plc share repurchase We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, authorization requires annual shareholder approval.
During including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, the 2007 fourth quarter and from December 1, 2007 through certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, January 28, 2008 we purchased 4.
3 million that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or ordinary shares of Carnival plc, which are not registered under future material effect on our financial statements.
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange act at an average price of $43.
6 FOREIGN CURRENCY ExCHANGE RATE RISkS million shares, respectively of Carnival Corporation common stock at an average share price of $44.
63, respecour growing international business operations are contively.
Carnival plc ordinary shares are listed on the london ducted primarily through aiDa in Germany, Costa in Southern Stock Exchange.
at January 28, 2008 the remaining availabilEurope and China, ibero Cruises in Spain, p&o Cruises, ocean ity pursuant to our repurchase program was $788 million.
village and Cunard in the UK and p&o Cruises australia in at november 30, 2007, as adjusted for the $1.
50 billion australia, which subject us to an increasing level of foreign short-term revolving credit facilities we entered into in January currency exchange risk related to the Euro, Sterling and 2008, we had liquidity of $5.
31 billion, which consisted of australian dollar because these operations have either the $943 million of cash and cash equivalents, $1.
08 billion availEuro, Sterling or australian dollar as their functional currency.
able for borrowing under our Facility, $1.
50 billion under our accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations of the Euro, Sterling short-term revolving credit facilities and $1.
78 billion under or australian dollar against the U. S. dollar will affect our committed ship financing facilities.
Substantially all of our reported financial results since the reporting currency for our Facility matures in 2012. in addition, in June 2007 we entered consolidated financial statements is the U. S. dollar and the into an agreement to sell Cunard lines QE2 for delivery to the functional currency for our international operations is generally buyer in november 2008 for $100 million.
a key to our access the local currency.
any weakening of the U. S. dollar against to liquidity is the maintenance of our strong credit ratings.
these local functional currencies has the financial statement Based primarily on our historical results, current financial effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values reported for cruise condition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing revenues and cruise expenses in our Consolidated Stateliquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient ments of operations.
Strengthening of the U. S. dollar has to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service the opposite effect.
requirements, convertible debt redemptions, dividend payWe seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign ments, working capital and other firm commitments over the currency exchange rates through our normal operating and next several years.
in addition, based on our future forecasted financing activities, including netting certain exposures to operating results and cash flows for fiscal 2008, we expect take advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered to be in compliance with our debt covenants during 2008. appropriate, through the use of derivative and nonderivative However, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, financial instruments.
the financial impacts of these hedging as well as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by instruments are generally offset by corresponding changes various factors including, but not limited to, those factors in the underlying exposures being hedged.
our policy is to noted under Cautionary note Concerning Factors that May not use any financial instruments for trading or other specuaffect Future results.
to the extent that we are required, or lative purposes.
choose, to fund future cash requirements, including our future one of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than as disis related to our outstanding commitments under ship concussed above, we believe that we will be able to secure such struction contracts denominated in a currency other than the 40 | Carnival Corporation & plC currency hedges.
a portion of our net investment in Eurofunctional currency of the cruise brand that is expected to be denominated cruise operations effectively act as an economic operating the ship.
these foreign currency commitments are hedge against a portion of these Euro commitments.
accordaffected by fluctuations in the value of the functional currency ingly, a portion of any increase or decrease in our ship costs as compared to the currency in which the shipbuilding conresulting from changes in the exchange rates will be offset tract is denominated.
We use foreign currency swaps and by a corresponding change in the net assets of our Eurononderivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency denominated cruise operations.
Based upon a 10% hypothetiexchange rate risk from some of our ship construction concal increase or decrease in the november 30, 2007 U. S. dollar tracts see notes 2, 6 and 10 in the accompanying financial to the Euro foreign currency exchange rate, the cost of these statements.
accordingly, increases and decreases in the fair ships would decrease or increase by $320 million.
value of these foreign currency swaps offset changes in the fair in addition, at november 30, 2007 we have two Eurovalue of the foreign currency denominated ship construction denominated shipbuilding commitments for delivery in March commitments, thus resulting in the elimination of such risk.
05 billion assigned to Specifically, we have foreign currency swaps for one of our two of our Sterling functional currency brands for which we Euro-denominated shipbuilding contracts and a portion of have not entered into any foreign currency swaps.
at november 30, 2007, the fair the Sterling cost of these ships will increase or decrease value of these foreign currency swaps was an unrealized gain based upon changes in the exchange rate until the payments of $13 million which is recorded, along with an offsetting $13 are made under the shipbuilding contracts or we enter into million fair value liability related to our shipbuilding firm comforeign currency hedges.
Since the Euro to Sterling exchange mitments, on our accompanying 2007 balance sheet.
Based rate has traded in a narrow band for most of the last three upon a 10% strengthening or weakening of the Sterling and years, we have not yet hedged these Euro-denominated U. S. dollar compared to the Euro as of november 30, 2007, commitments.
Based upon a 10% hypothetical increase or assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, the decrease in the november 30, 2007 Sterling to Euro foreign estimated fair value of these foreign currency swaps would currency exchange rate, assuming the U. S. dollar exchange decrease or increase by $66 million, which would be offset rate remains constant, the cost of these ships would decrease by a decrease or increase of $66 million in the U. S. dollar or increase by $155 million.
value of the related foreign currency ship construction comour decisions regarding whether or not to hedge a given mitments resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
ship commitment are made on a case-by-case basis, taking in addition, we have 296 million of cash equivalents that into consideration the amount and duration of the exposure, are designated as a fair value hedge for a portion of a ship market volatility, exchange rate correlation, economic trends that is expected to operate in a U. S. dollar functional currency and other offsetting risks.
brand, which has resulted in a $44 million firm commitment the cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the gain.
Based upon a 10% strengthening or weakening of the future for our cruise lines who generate their cash flows in a U. S. dollar compared to the Euro cash equivalent balance as currency that is different than the shipyards operating currency, of november 30, 2007, assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, the estimated fair value of this cash equivalent generally the Euro, is expected to be affected by foreign curbalance would decrease or increase by $44 million, which rency exchange rate fluctuations.
Given the decline in the would be offset by a decrease or increase of $44 million in the U. S. dollar relative to the Euro over the past several years, the U. S. dollar balance of the related foreign currency ship conU.
S. dollar cost to order new cruise ships at current exchange struction commitment resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
if the U. S. dollar remains at at november 30, 2007, we have six Euro-denominated current levels or declines further, this may affect our ability shipbuilding commitments for delivery between June 2009 to order future new cruise ships for U. S. dollar functional and May 2011 aggregating 2.
16 billion assigned to three of currency brands.
our U. S. dollar functional currency brands for which we have We consider our investments in foreign subsidiaries to be not entered into any foreign currency swaps.
therefore, the denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a long-term U. S. dollar cost of these ships will increase or decrease based nature.
in addition to the net investment hedging strategy disupon changes in the exchange rate until the payments are cussed above, we also partially address these net investment made under the shipbuilding contracts or we enter into foreign currency exposures by denominating a portion of our debt Carnival Corporation & plC | 41
