a The expected service date is the month in which the ship is currently expected to begin its first revenue generating cruise.
b Estimated total cost of the completed ship includes the contract price with the shipyard, design and engineering fees, capitalized interest, construction oversight costs and various owner supplied items.
All of our ship construction contracts are with the Fincantieri shipyards in Italy, except for AIDAs and Seabourns which are with the Meyer Werft shipyard in Germany and T. Mariotti shipyard in Italy, respectively.
In addition, the estimated total cost reflects the currency denomination that we are committed to expend, including the effect of foreign currency swaps and nonderivative designated cash equivalent hedge balances.
c These construction contracts are denominated in Euros and, accordingly, the Euro amounts have been fixed into Sterling or U. S. dollars, which are the functional currencies of the cruise brands that are expected to operate the ships, by utilizing foreign currency swaps and designated Euro cash equivalent balances.
d These construction contracts are denominated in Euros, which is the functional currency of the cruise brands that are expected to operate the ships.
e These ship orders were entered into in December 2007. f The estimated total costs of these contracts denominated in Euros and Sterling have been translated into U. S. dollars using the November 30, 2007 exchange rates.
in connection with our cruise ships under contract for in the normal course of our business, various other claims construction listed above, we have paid $1.
01 billion through and lawsuits have been filed or are pending against us.
Most november 30, 2007 and anticipate paying the remaining estiof these claims and lawsuits are covered by insurance and, mated total costs as follows: $2.
33 accordingly, the maximum amount of our liability, net of any billion, $2.
15 billion in fiscal 2008, 2009, insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.
However, the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits which are not covered by insurance Operating Leases cannot be determined at this time.
rent expense under our operating leases, primarily for office, warehouse and ship operating leases, was $46 million, Contingent Obligations $47 million and $50 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, at november 30, 2007, Carnival Corporation had contingent respectively.
at november 30, 2007, minimum annual rentals obligations totaling approximately $1.
07 billion to participants for our operating leases, with initial or remaining terms in in lease out and lease back type transactions for three of its excess of one year, were as follows in millions : $38, $40, ships.
at the inception of the leases, the entire amount of $33, $31, $30 and $158 in fiscal 2008 through 2012 and the contingent obligations was paid by Carnival Corporation thereafter, respectively.
to major financial institutions to enable them to directly pay these obligations.
accordingly, these obligations are considPort Facilities and Other ered extinguished, and neither the funds nor the contingent at november 30, 2007, minimum amounts payable for our obligations have been included on our balance sheets.
Carnival annual usage of port facilities and other contractual commitCorporation would only be required to make payments for ments with remaining terms in excess of one year were as these contingent obligations in the remote event of nonperforfollows in millions : $111, $95, $75, $51, $45 and $184 in mance by these major financial institutions, all of which have fiscal 2008 through 2012 and thereafter, respectively.
long-term credit ratings of aa or higher.
in addition, Carnival Corporation obtained a direct guarantee from aa or higher NOTE 7CONTINGENCIES rated financial institutions for $278 million of the above noted Litigation contingent obligations, thereby further reducing the already in January 2006, a lawsuit was filed against Carnival remote exposure to this portion of the contingent obligations.
Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and other nonin certain cases, if the credit ratings of the major financial affiliated cruise lines in new York on behalf of a purported institutions who are directly paying the contingent obligations class of owners of intellectual property rights to musical plays fall below aa-, which we believe is remote, then Carnival and other works performed in the U. S. the plaintiffs claim Corporation will be required to move those funds being held infringement of copyrights to Broadway, off Broadway and by those institutions to other financial institutions whose other plays.
the suit seeks payment of i damages, ii disgorgecredit ratings are aaor above.
if such unlikely events were ment of alleged profits and iii an injunction against future to occur, we would incur costs that we estimate would not be infringement.
in the event that an award is given in favor of material to our financial statements.
if Carnival Corporations the plaintiffs, the amount of damages, if any, which Carnival credit rating, which is a-, falls below BBB, it would be required Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates would have to to provide a standby letter of credit for $77 million, or alternapay is not currently determinable.
the ultimate outcome of tively provide mortgages in the aggregate amount of $77 million this matter cannot be determined at this time.
However, we on two of its ships.
intend to vigorously defend this matter.
