NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued NOTE 16 RECENT ACCOUNTING the adoption of Fin 48 will not have a material impact on PRONOUNCEmENT our opening December 1, 2007 retained earnings.
Based on all known facts and circumstances and current tax law, we in June 2006, Fin 48 was issued which clarifies, among believe that the total amount of our uncertain income tax posiother things, the accounting for uncertain income tax position liabilities and related accrued interest are not material to tions by prescribing a minimum probability threshold that a our november 30, 2007 financial position.
However, income tax position must meet before a financial statement income tax laws and regulations under which our uncertain income tax benefit is recognized.
the minimum threshold is defined tax position liabilities are determined could change or could be as a tax position that, based solely on its technical merits, is interpreted differently.
For example, changes to how Section more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the 883 of the internal revenue Code and related regulations are relevant taxing authority.
the tax benefit to be recognized is interpreted could result in additional uncertain income tax measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than position liabilities having to be recognized.
the internal revenue fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution.
Service is currently auditing our U. S. domestic operations Fin 48 must be applied to all existing income tax positions income tax returns for fiscal 2004 and 2005.
the cumulative effect of applying Fin 48 at mary income tax jurisdictions are the U. S. italy and the UK for adoption is required to be reported separately as an adjustwhich our income tax returns remain subject to examination ment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year from the years ended november 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, of adoption.
We are required to implement Fin 48 as of the respectively.
28 | Carnival Corporation & plC MANAgEMENTS REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OvER FINANCIAL REPORTINg our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange act of 1934 rule 13a-15 f. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive officer, Chief operating officer and Chief Financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal Controlintegrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring organizations of the treadway Commission CoSo Framework.
Based on our evaluation under the CoSo Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2007.  llp, the independent registered certified public accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements, has also audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2007 as stated in their report, which is included in this 2007 annual report.
Micky arison Howard S. Frank David Bernstein Chairman of the Board and vice Chairman of the Board and Senior vice president and Chief Executive officer Chief operating officer Chief Financial officer January 29, 2008 January 29, 2008 January 29, 2008 Carnival Corporation & plC | 29
