NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued addition, the unrealized exchange gains or losses on our longInsurance Self-Insurance term intercompany receivables denominated in a non-functional We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for currency, which are not expected to be repaid in the foreseea number of risks including claims related to crew and guests, able future and are therefore considered to form part of our hull and machinery, war risk, workers compensation, property net investments, are recorded as a foreign currency translation damage and general liability.
liabilities associated with certain adjustment, which is included as a component of aoCi.
net of these risks, including crew and guest claims, are estimated foreign currency transaction gains or losses recorded in our actuarially based on, among other things, historical claims earnings were insignificant in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. experience, loss development factors and other assumptions.
our expected loss accruals are based on estimates, and while Earnings Per Share we believe the amounts accrued are adequate, the ultimate Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income loss may differ from the amounts provided.
by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock Selling and Administrative Expenses and ordinary shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted Selling expenses include items such as advertising, marearnings per share is computed by dividing adjusted net keting, promotional and related costs.
advertising costs are income by the weighted-average number of shares of comcharged to expense as incurred except for brochures and mon stock and ordinary shares, common stock equivalents media production costs.
the brochures and media production and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during each costs are recorded as prepaid expenses and charged to period.
For earnings per share purposes, Carnival Corporation expense as consumed or upon the first airing of the advertisecommon stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares are considered ment, respectively.
advertising expenses totaled $508 million, a single class of shares because of their equivalent rights see $464 million and $455 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, note 3. all shares that are issuable under our outstanding respectively.
at november 30, 2007 and 2006, the amount of convertible notes that have contingent share conversion advertising costs included in prepaid expenses was not sigfeatures have been considered outstanding for our diluted nificant.
administrative expenses represent the costs of our earnings per share computations, if dilutive, using the if shoreside ship support, reservation and other administrative converted method of accounting from the date of issuance.
functions and include items such as salaries and related beneShare-Based Compensation fits, professional fees and occupancy costs, which are typiEffective December 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions of cally expensed as incurred.
Statement of Financial accounting Standard SFaS no.
123 revised 2004, Share-Based payment SFaS no.
123 r, Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions which requires us to measure and recognize compensation We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign subexpense for all share-based compensation awards.
We adopted sidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U. S. SFaS no.
123 r using the modified prospective application dollar at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates.
Under this method, the share-based comrevenues and expenses of these foreign subsidiaries are pensation cost recognized beginning December 1, 2005 translated at weighted-average exchange rates for the period.
includes compensation cost for i all share-based payments Equity is translated at historical rates and the resulting cumugranted prior to, but not vested as of, December 1, 2005, lative foreign currency translation adjustments are included based on the grant date fair value originally estimated in accoras a component of aoCi.
therefore, the U. S. dollar value of dance with the provisions of SFaS no.
123, accounting for these non-equity translated items in our financial statements Stock-Based Compensation SFaS no.
123, and ii all will fluctuate from period to period, depending on the changing value of the dollar against these non-U.
S. dollar functional share-based payments granted subsequent to november 30, currencies.
2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordExchange gains and losses arising from the remeasurement ance with the provisions of SFaS no.
123 r. prior to of monetary assets and liabilities, and foreign currency transDecember 1, 2005, as allowed under the then outstanding actions denominated in a currency other than the functional accounting principles, we did not recognize compensation currency of the entity involved are immediately included in expense for the issuance of stock options with an exercise nonoperating earnings, unless such assets and net liabilities price equal to or greater than the market price of the underhave been designated to act as hedges of ship commitments lying shares at the date of grant.
or net investments in our foreign subsidiaries, respectively.
