NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued in the unlikely event that Carnival Corporation were to of the internal revenue Code.
income we earn that is not terminate the three lease agreements early or default on its associated with the international operation of ships or earned obligations, it would, as of november 30, 2007, have to pay a in countries without preferential tax regimes is subject to total of $179 million in stipulated damages.
as of november 30, income tax in the countries where such income is earned.
2007, $183 million of standby letters of credit have been regulations have been issued under Section 883 that limit issued by a major financial institution in order to provide further the types of income deemed to be derived from the internasecurity for the payment of these contingent stipulated damtional operation of a ship.
accordingly, our provision for U. S. ages.
in addition, we have a $170 million back-up letter of federal income taxes includes taxes on a portion of our ship credit issued under a loan facility in support of these standby operations in addition to the transportation, hotel and tour letters of credit.
Between 2017 and 2022, we have the right businesses of Holland america tours and princess tours.
to exercise options that would terminate these three lease in addition, during the fourth quarter of 2005 and first quarter transactions at no cost to us.
of 2006 we chartered three ships to the Military Sealift Some of the debt agreements that we enter into include Command in connection with the Hurricane Katrina relief indemnification provisions that obligate us to make payments effort.
income from these charters is not considered to be to the counterparty if certain events occur.
these contingenincome from the international operation of our ships and, cies generally relate to changes in taxes, changes in laws that accordingly, approximately $11 million and $18 million of increase lender capital costs and other similar costs.
the income taxes were provided on the net earnings of these indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms charters in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, at a tax rate and were entered into in the normal course of business.
there are no stated or notional amounts included in the if we were found not to qualify for exemption pursuant to indemnification clauses and we are not able to estimate the applicable income tax treaties or under the internal revenue maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under Code or if the income tax treaties or internal revenue Code these indemnification clauses.
We have not been required were to be changed in a manner adverse to us, a portion of to make any material payments under such indemnification our income would become subject to taxation by the U. S. clauses in the past and, under current circumstances, we aiDa, Costa, Cunard, ocean village, p&o Cruises and do not believe a request for material future indemnification p&o Cruises australia are subject to income tax under the payments is probable.
tonnage tax regimes of either italy or the United Kingdom.
Under both tonnage tax regimes, shipping profits, as defined War Risk Insurance under the applicable law, are subject to corporation tax by We maintain war risk insurance, subject to coverage limits, reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels.
income not deductibles and exclusions for claims such as those arising considered to be shipping profits under tonnage tax rules is from chemical, nuclear and biological attacks, on all of our taxable under either the italian tax regime applicable to italianships covering our legal liability to crew, guests and other third registered ships or the normal UK income tax rules.
We believe parties as well as loss or damage to our vessels arising from that substantially all of the ordinary income attributable to war or war-like actions, including terrorist incidents.
Under the these brands constitutes shipping profits and, accordingly, terms of our war risk insurance coverage, which is typical for italian and UK income tax expenses for these operations war risk policies in the marine industry, underwriters can give have been and are expected to be minimal under the current seven days notice to the insured that the liability and physical tax regimes.
damage policies will be cancelled.
We do not expect to incur income taxes on future distributions of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and, NOTE 8INCOmE AND OTHER TAxES accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided for the distribution of these earnings.
all interest expense We are foreign corporations primarily engaged in the interrelated to income tax liabilities are classified as income tax national operation of vessels.
Generally, income from the expenses.
in addition to or in place of income taxes, virtually international operation of vessels is subject to preferential tax all jurisdictions where our ships call impose taxes and or fees regimes in the countries where the vessel owning companies based on guest counts, ship tonnage, ship capacity or some are incorporated and exempt from income tax in other counother measure.
tries where the vessels call due to the application of income tax treaties or, in the case of the U. S. treaties or Section 883 20 | Carnival Corporation & plC
