Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 49 N otes to the financial statements 1 Basis of preparation continued Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses IAS 23 requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs that arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised production of a qualifying asset.
In the situation, such is the gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are case with Derwent London, when the financing activity is eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the joint co-ordinated centrally the weighted average interest rate is venture concerned.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in used to allocate interest to the qualifying asset.
This will be the same way, but only to the extent that there is no applicable to the group in relation to capital expenditure and evidence of impairment.
If this standard had been in effect for 2007 then the interest cost recognised in the group income Gross property income statement would have been reduced by 5.0m and Gross property income arises from two main sources: consequently recurring profit for the year would have been i Rental income Rental income arises from operating increased by the same amount.
This amount would have leases granted to tenants.
An operating lease is a lease been capitalised and the revaluation surplus would have other than a finance lease.
A finance lease is one been reduced by the same amount leaving net asset value whereby substantially all the risks and rewards of and IFRS profit for the year unchanged.
ownership are passed to the lessee.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Rental income is recognised in the group income The preparation of financial statements in conformity statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting lease.
This includes the effect of lease incentives to estimates and judgements.
It also requires management tenants, which are normally in the form of rent free to exercise judgement in the process of applying the periods or capital contributions in lieu of rent free periods groups accounting policies.
Estimates and judgements and the effect of payments received from tenants on the are continually evaluated and are based on historical grant of leases.
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the For income from property leased out under a finance circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on lease, a lease receivable asset is recognised in the managements best knowledge of the amount, event or balance sheet at an amount equal to the net investment actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
in the lease, as defined in IAS 17, Leases.
Minimum lease payments receivable, again defined in IAS 17, are apportioned between finance income and the reduction 2 Significant accounting policies of the outstanding lease receivable so as to produce a Basis of consolidation constant periodic rate of return on the remaining net The group financial statements incorporate the financial investment in the lease.
Contingent rents, being the statements of Derwent London plc and all of its subsidiaries, difference between the rent currently receivable and together with the groups share of the results of its joint the minimum lease payments when the net investment ventures.
in the lease was originally calculated, are recognised in property income in the years in which they are receivable.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the company.
Control exists when the company has the power, ii Surrender premiums Payments received from tenants directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating to surrender their lease obligations are recognised policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
immediately in the group income statement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control Development income commences and until the date control ceases.
Development income is recognised in accordance with IAS 18, Revenue, and is based on the directors assessment Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities of the stage of completion of the project, the future costs the group has joint control, established by contractual and the expected value of the completed building.
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting as permitted by IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures and following the procedures for this method set out in IAS 28, Investments in Associates.
The equity method requires the groups share of the joint ventures post-tax profit or loss for the period to be presented separately in the income statement and the groups share of the joint ventures net assets to be presented separately in the balance sheet.
N otes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Pensions Expenses i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions i Lease payments Where investment properties are to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as held under operating leases, the leasehold interest is an expense in the group income statement in the period classified as if it were held under a finance lease, which to which they relate.
is recognised at its fair value on the balance sheet, within the investment property carrying value.
Upon ii Defined benefit plans The groups net obligation in initial recognition, a corresponding liability is included respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, as a finance lease liability.
Minimum lease payments including pension plans, is calculated separately for are apportioned between the finance charge and the each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that reduction of the outstanding liability so as to produce employees have earned in return for their service in the a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to finance lease liability.
Contingent rents payable, being determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan the difference between the rent currently payable and assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the the minimum lease payments when the lease liability balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have was originally calculated, are charged as expenses maturity dates approximating the terms of the groups within property expenditure in the years in which they obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified are payable.
actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Any actuarial gain or loss in the period is recognised in full ii Dilapidations Dilapidations monies received from tenants in the statement of recognised income and expense.
in respect of their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the group income statement.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for under the iii Other property expenditure Vacant property costs acquisition method.
Any excess of the purchase price of and other property costs are expensed in the year to business combinations over the fair value of the assets, which they relate.
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as goodwill.
Any Employee benefits discount is credited to the group income statement in the i Share-based remuneration period of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset a Equity-settled The company operates a long-term and reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised incentive plan and share option scheme.
The fair value immediately in the group income statement and is not of the conditional awards of shares granted under the subsequently reversed.
Any residual goodwill is reviewed long-term incentive plan and the options granted under annually for impairment.
the share option scheme are determined at the date of grant.
This fair value is then expensed on a straight-line Investment properties basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of i Valuation Investment properties are those that the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At each are held either to earn rental income or for capital reporting date, the non-market based performance appreciation or both, including those that are criteria of the long-term incentive plan are reconsidered undergoing redevelopment.
Investment properties are and the expense is revised as necessary.
In respect of measured initially at cost, including related transaction the share option scheme, the fair value of options costs.
After initial recognition, they are carried on the granted is calculated using a binomial model.
group balance sheet at fair value adjusted for the carrying value of leasehold interests and lease incentive Under the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, no expense debtors.
Fair value is the amount for which an is recognised for options or conditional shares granted investment property could be exchanged between on or before 7th November 2002. knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The valuation is undertaken by independent b Cash-settled For cash-settled share-based valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional payments, a liability is recognised based on the current qualifications and have recent experience in the fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
The locations and categories of properties being valued.
movement in the current fair value is taken to the group income statement.
Surpluses or deficits resulting from changes in the fair value of investment property are reported in the group income statement in the year in which they arise.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 51 N otes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued ii Other Other property, plant and equipment, is Investment properties continued depreciated at a rate of between 10% and 25% per ii Capital expenditure Capital expenditure, being annum which is calculated to write off the cost, less costs directly attributable to the redevelopment or estimated residual value of the individual assets, over refurbishment of an investment property, up to the point their expected useful lives.
of it being completed for its intended use, are capitalised in the carrying value of that property.
Borrowing costs Investments that are directly attributable to such expenditure are Investments in joint ventures, being those entities over expensed in the year in which they arise.
whose activities the group has joint control, as established by contractual agreement, are included in the groups balance iii Disposal The disposal of investment properties is sheet at cost together with the groups share of post accounted for on completion of contract.
On disposal, acquisition reserves, on a net equity basis.
Investments in any gain or loss is calculated as the difference between subsidiaries and joint ventures are included in the companys the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value at the balance sheet at the lower of cost and their net asset value.
last year end plus subsequent capitalised expenditure Any impairment is recognised immediately in the company during the year.
iv Development When the group begins to redevelop Non-current assets held for sale an existing investment property for continued use as Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their an investment property, the property remains an carrying value will be recovered through a sale transaction investment property and is accounted for as such.
rather than through continuing use.
This condition is When the group begins to redevelop an existing regarded as met if the sale is highly probable, the asset investment property with a view to sale, the property is available for immediate sale in its present condition, is transferred to trading properties and held as a current being actively marketed and management is committed asset.
The property is re-measured to fair value as at to the sale which should be expected to qualify for the date of transfer with any gain or loss being taken recognition as a completed sale within one year from to the income statement.
The re-measured amount the date of classification.
becomes the deemed cost at which the property is then carried in trading properties.
Non-current assets, including related liabilities, classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value Property, plant and equipment and fair value less costs of disposal.
i Assets under construction Property assets acquired with the intention of subsequent development as Trading property investment properties are included as Assets under Trading property includes those properties which were construction within property, plant and equipment, until acquired exclusively with a view to resale or development the construction or development is completed, at which and resale and are held at the lower of cost or transfer time they are reclassified as investment properties.
value and net realisable value.
Assets under construction are included in the balance sheet at fair value, determined by an independent valuer Financial assets on the same basis as used for investment properties.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in If the fair value increases, this increase is credited hand and on-demand deposits less overdrafts.
Cash directly to the revaluation reserve, except to the extent equivalents comprise short-term, highly liquid investments that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash which previously had been charged to the group income and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes statement.
If the fair value decreases, this decrease is in value.
recognised in the group income statement, except to the extent that it reverses previous revaluation increases ii Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised of the same asset which have been credited to the and carried at the original transaction value.
A provision revaluation reserve, in which case it is charged against for impairment is established where there is objective the revaluation reserve.
evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables concerned.
N otes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax Financial liabilities Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable i Bank loans and overdrafts Bank loans and overdrafts on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and are included as financial liabilities on the balance sheets liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding at the amounts drawn on the particular facilities.
Interest tax bases used in the tax computations, and is accounted payable is expensed as a finance cost in the year to for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax which it relates.
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the ii Debenture loan and bonds The debenture loan is extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available included as a financial liability on the balance sheet against which deductible temporary differences can be net of the unamortised discount and costs on issue.
In respect of the deferred tax on the revaluation The difference between this carrying value and the surplus, this is calculated on the basis of the chargeable redemption value is recognised in the group income gains that would crystallise on the sale of the investment statement over the life of the debenture on an effective portfolio as at the reporting date.
The calculation takes interest basis.
Interest payable to debenture holders is account of available indexation on the historic cost of the expensed in the year to which it relates.
properties and any available capital losses.
On redemption, all remaining unamortised discount Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected and costs on issue are recognised together with the to apply in the period, based on Acts substantially enacted premium and the costs of redemption in finance costs at the year end, when the liability is settled or the asset is in the group income statement as an exceptional item realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the group in accordance with the accounting policy below.
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is also dealt iii Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities arise with in equity.
for those investment properties held under a leasehold interest and accounted for as investment property.
Dividends The liability is initially calculated as the present value of Dividends payable on the ordinary share capital are the minimum lease payments, reducing in subsequent recognised in the year in which they are declared.
years by the apportionment of payments to the lessor, as described above under the heading for lease payments.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from iv Interest rate derivatives The group uses derivative events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities financial instruments to manage the interest rate risk of the group and which, individually or, if a similar type, in associated with the financing of the groups business.
aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or No trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
incidence if the financial statements are to give a true and fair view.
At each reporting date, these interest rate derivatives are measured at fair value, being the estimated amount that the group would receive or pay to terminate the agreement at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current credit rating of the counterparties.
The gain or loss at each fair value remeasurement is recognised in the group income statement.
v Trade payables Trade payables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value.
