Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 53 N otes to the financial statements 3 Significant judgments, key assumptions Compliance with the real estate investment trust and estimates taxation regime The groups significant accounting policies are stated in On 1st July 2007 the group converted to a REIT.
Not all of these significant accounting policies achieve and retain REIT status, several entrance tests had require management to make difficult, subjective or complex to be met and certain ongoing criteria must be maintained.
The following is intended to provide The main criteria are as follows: an understanding of the policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgment or At the start of each accounting period, the assets estimation involved in their application and their impact on of the tax exempt business must be at least 75% the consolidated financial statements.
These judgments of the total value of the groups assets.
involve assumptions or estimates in respect of future At least 75% of the groups total profits must arise events.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
from the tax exempt business.
At least 90% of the profit of the property rental Trading properties business must be distributed.
Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The latter is assessed by the group The directors intend that the group should continue having regards to suitable external advice and knowledge as a REIT for the foreseeable future, with the result of recent comparable transactions.
that deferred tax is no longer recognised on temporary differences relating to the property rental business which Trade receivables is within the REIT structure.
The group is required to judge when there is sufficient objective evidence to require the impairment of individual trade receivables.
It does this on the basis of the age of the 4 Financial instruments risk management relevant receivables, external evidence of the credit status The group is exposed through its operations to the following of the debtor entity and the status of any disputed amounts.
financial risks: Exceptional items credit risk: Exceptional items are defined as those items which fair value or cash flow interest rate risk: and are sufficiently material by either their size or nature as to liquidity risk.
Deciding which items meet this definition requires the group to exercise its judgment.
In common with all other businesses, the group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments.
This Investment property valuation note describes the groups objectives, policies and processes The group uses the valuation performed by its independent for managing those risks and the methods used to measure valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
Further quantitative information in respect of these valuation is based upon assumptions including future rental risks is presented throughout these financial statements.
income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and the appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also There have been no substantive changes in the groups make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for exposure to financial instrument risks, its objectives, policies similar properties.
and processes for managing those risks or the methods used to measure them from previous periods.
Unagreed rent reviews Where the rent review date has passed, and the revised The company has the same risk profile as the group annual rent had not been agreed, rent is accrued from the except tenant credit risk which does not exist in the date of the rent review based upon an estimate annual rent.
company and therefore no separate discussion has The estimate is derived from knowledge of market rents for been made of the company.
N otes to the financial statements 4 Financial instruments risk management Market risk continued Market risk arises from the groups use of interest bearing Principal financial instruments instruments.
It is the risk that the fair value or future cash The principal financial instruments used by the group, flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of from which financial instrument risk arises, are as follows: changes in interest rates interest rate risk.
Trade receivables Fair value and cash flow interest rate risk Cash at bank The group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk from Bank overdrafts borrowings at variable rate.
It is currently group policy that Trade and other payables between 40% and 75% of external group borrowings Floating rate bank loans excluding finance lease payables are fixed rate borrowings.
Fixed rate bank loans Where the group wishes to vary the amount of external Secured bonds fixed rate debt it holds subject to it being at least 40% and Interest rate swaps no more than 75% of expected group borrowings, as noted Internal rate caps above, the group makes use of interest rate derivatives to achieve the desired interest rate profile.
Although the board General objectives, policies and processes accepts that this policy neither protects the group entirely The board has overall responsibility for the determination from the risk of paying rates in excess of current market of the groups risk management objectives and policies rates nor eliminates fully cash flow risk associated with and, whilst retaining ultimate responsibility for them, it variability in interest payments, it considers that it achieves has delegated the authority for designing and operating an appropriate balance of exposure to these risks.
processes that ensure the effective implementation of the objectives and policies to executive management.
During both 2007 and 2006, the groups borrowings at variable rate were denominated in sterling.
The overall objective of the board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk as far as possible without unduly affecting the The group monitors the interest rate exposure on a regular groups flexibility and its ability to maximise returns.
A sensitivity analysis is performed to ascertain the details regarding these policies are set out below: impact on profit or loss and net assets of a 100 basis point shift being the maximum reasonable expectation of Credit risk changes in interest rates would be an increase of 2.9m Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a 2006: 1.9m or a decrease of 3.0m 2006: 2.0m.
customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The group is mainly The group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using exposed to credit risk from its lease contracts.
It is group floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps quantitative disclosures policy to assess the credit risk of new tenants before are given in note 28.
Predominantly, the group raises longentering contracts.
term borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed.
The board has established a credit committee which Liquidity risk assesses each new tenant before a new lease is signed.
Liquidity risk arises from the groups management of The review includes the latest sets of financial statements, working capital and the finance charges and principal external ratings, when available, and in some cases forecast repayments on its debt instruments.
It is the risk that the information and bank and trade references.
The covenant group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial strength of each tenant is determined based on this review obligations as they fall due.
and if appropriate a deposit or alternatively a guarantee is obtained.
The groups policy is to ensure that it will always have sufficient headroom in its loan facilities to allow it to meet Credit risk also arises from cash and cash equivalents and its liabilities when they become due.
To achieve this aim, it deposits with banks and financial institutions.
For banks seeks to maintain committed facilities to meet the expected and financial institutions only independently rated parties requirements.
The group also seeks to reduce liquidity risk with minimum rating of investment grade are accepted.
by fixing interest rates and hence cash flows on a portion This risk is reduced by the short periods that money is of its long-term borrowings, this is further discussed in the on deposit at any one time.
Interest rate risk section above.
The group does not enter into derivatives to manage The executive management receives rolling three-month credit risk.
cash flow projections on a monthly basis and three-year projections of loan balances on a quarterly basis as part Quantitative discloses of the credit risk exposure in relation of the groups forecasting processes.
At the balance sheet to trade and other receivables which are neither past due date, these projections indicated that the group expected nor impaired, are disclosed in note 25. to have sufficient liquid resources to meet its obligations under all reasonably expected circumstances.
