Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 53 N otes to the financial statements 3 Significant judgments, key assumptions Compliance with the real estate investment trust and estimates taxation regime The groups significant accounting policies are stated in On 1st July 2007 the group converted to a REIT.
Not all of these significant accounting policies achieve and retain REIT status, several entrance tests had require management to make difficult, subjective or complex to be met and certain ongoing criteria must be maintained.
The following is intended to provide The main criteria are as follows: an understanding of the policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgment or At the start of each accounting period, the assets estimation involved in their application and their impact on of the tax exempt business must be at least 75% the consolidated financial statements.
These judgments of the total value of the groups assets.
involve assumptions or estimates in respect of future At least 75% of the groups total profits must arise events.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
from the tax exempt business.
At least 90% of the profit of the property rental Trading properties business must be distributed.
Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The latter is assessed by the group The directors intend that the group should continue having regards to suitable external advice and knowledge as a REIT for the foreseeable future, with the result of recent comparable transactions.
that deferred tax is no longer recognised on temporary differences relating to the property rental business which Trade receivables is within the REIT structure.
The group is required to judge when there is sufficient objective evidence to require the impairment of individual trade receivables.
It does this on the basis of the age of the 4 Financial instruments risk management relevant receivables, external evidence of the credit status The group is exposed through its operations to the following of the debtor entity and the status of any disputed amounts.
financial risks: Exceptional items credit risk: Exceptional items are defined as those items which fair value or cash flow interest rate risk: and are sufficiently material by either their size or nature as to liquidity risk.
Deciding which items meet this definition requires the group to exercise its judgment.
In common with all other businesses, the group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments.
This Investment property valuation note describes the groups objectives, policies and processes The group uses the valuation performed by its independent for managing those risks and the methods used to measure valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
Further quantitative information in respect of these valuation is based upon assumptions including future rental risks is presented throughout these financial statements.
income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and the appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also There have been no substantive changes in the groups make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for exposure to financial instrument risks, its objectives, policies similar properties.
and processes for managing those risks or the methods used to measure them from previous periods.
Unagreed rent reviews Where the rent review date has passed, and the revised The company has the same risk profile as the group annual rent had not been agreed, rent is accrued from the except tenant credit risk which does not exist in the date of the rent review based upon an estimate annual rent.
company and therefore no separate discussion has The estimate is derived from knowledge of market rents for been made of the company.
