Directors report investment opportunities, such purchases are considered to be in the companys and shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital structure.
The special resolution gives the directors authority to purchase up to 10% of the companys ordinary shares and specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Companies Act 1985 now permits the company to hold any such bought-back shares in treasury, with a view to possible re-issue at a Qube, 90 Whitfield Street, W1 future date, as an alternative to immediately cancelling them as had Art David Tremlett previously been required by the legislation.
Accordingly, if the company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution 13, the company may cancel those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such a decision will be made by the directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the companys and shareholders best interest.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the company held no shares in treasury.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 18th March 2008 was 1,051,612, which represented 1.044% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options outstanding at 18th March 2008 would represent 1.160% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 14 proposes that new articles of association are adopted by the company.
The introduction of the Companies Act 2006 required a number of changes to the companys articles and the board has taken the opportunity to review the articles and make other changes so as to incorporate the effects of other legislation that has been enacted since the current version was adopted.
Details of the proposed changes are set out in appendix I of the Circular.
Resolution 15 authorises the companys remuneration committee to implement changes to the groups performance share plan which was introduced in 2004.
As part of a review of the overall remuneration arrangements for senior executives, and in consultation with its advisers, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, the remuneration committee identified a number of changes that would better align the interests of the senior executives and shareholders.
Details of the changes are set out in appendix II of the Circular.
Resolution 16 seeks shareholder approval for the introduction of a new share option scheme to replace the previous scheme which expired in 2007.
Details of the new scheme, under which no awards would be made to directors, are set out in appendix III of the Circular.
The board see share options as an important part of remuneration policy and therefore the appropriate approval is being sought at the annual general meeting.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed the willingness to continue in office and accordingly, a resolution to re-appoint them and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
This is resolution 10 set out in the notice of meeting.
T. J. Kite ACA, Secretary 18th March 2008
