Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 77 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Portfolio internal rate of return IRR Earnings per share adjusted to exclude non-recurring items, The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied to profits or losses on sales of investment properties property the projected cash flows from the portfolio would result in a revaluations and deferred tax on capital allowances and net present value of zero.
property revaluations on a diluted basis.
REIT Adjusted net assets per share UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on capital allowances and property revaluations on a diluted basis.
Rent roll The annual contracted rental income.
Diluted figures Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential Return on capital employed ROCE shares issuable under the convertible bond.
Return on capital employed is measured as profit before financing costs plus revaluation surplus on development Earnings per share EPS property divided by the opening gross capital.
Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
Return on shareholders equity The growth in the adjusted diluted net assets per share plus EPRA adjustments dividends per share for the period expressed as a percentage of Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and adjusted the adjusted net assets per share at the beginning of the period.
NAV as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA in their January 2006 Best Practice and Policy Reversionary or under-rented Recommendations.
The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Estimated rental value ERV The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the Reversionary yield Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the ERV.
F&BS Finance and business services sector.
Total property return TPR Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived IPD from holding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Total shareholder return TSR IPD central London The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for properties in their monthly and quarterly valued universes.
the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Like-for-like portfolio Properties that have been held for the whole of the period Triple net asset value NNNAV of account.
NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial liabilities on a diluted basis.
Market value The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which True equivalent yield a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction flows from an investment property, including current rent, after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted reversions to current market rent and such items as voids and knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
In line expenditures, equates to the market value having taken into with market practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary Voids shares at the balance sheet date.
The element of a property which is unoccupied but available for letting, usually expressed as the ERV of the void space Net gearing divided by the existing rent roll plus the ERV of the void space.
Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a percentage of adjusted equity shareholders funds.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and the Net initial yield notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage assess investment returns.
of the investment property valuation having added notional puchasers costs.
Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT The weighted average unexpired lease term expressed in years.
