shareholDer information finanCial Calendar Full-year results announced 25 February 2008 Annual General Meeting 1 May 2008 Recommended final dividend Ex-dividend date 9 April 2008 Record date 11 April 2008 Payable on 23 May 2008 Anticipated 2008 interim dividend October 2008 annual general meeTing The Annual General Meeting for 2008 will be held at 10.30am on 1 May 2008 at 10 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4BJ.
Details of the Meeting and the resolutions to be voted upon can be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to all shareholders.
uK reiT TaxaTion As a UK REIT, Hammerson plc is exempted from corporation tax on rental income and gains on UK investment properties but is required to pay Property Income Distributions PIDs.
UK shareholders will be taxed on PIDs received at their full marginal tax rates.
A REIT may in addition pay normal dividends and Hammerson currently expects that its interim dividends will be paid entirely as PIDs while its final dividends will have both a PID and a normal dividend element.
For most shareholders, PIDs will be paid after deducting withholding tax at the basic rate.
However, certain categories of shareholder are entitled to receive PIDs without withholding tax, principally UK resident companies, UK public bodies, UK pension funds and managers of ISAs, PEPs and Child Trust Funds.
Hammersons website includes a form to be used by shareholders to certify if they qualify to receive PIDs without withholding tax.
Further information on UK REITs is available on the Companys website.
CapiTal gains Tax 1982 share value For the purposes of computing capital gains tax, the value of the Companys shares on 31 March 1982, after adjustment for subsequent issues, was 290p for each ordinary share at that date and 315p for each share classified as A ordinary limited voting at that date.
The cost to be used by shareholders in computing the gain on any disposal of shares will, however, vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders should seek professional advice on the amount of tax that may arise.
regisTrar If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, such as lost share certificates, change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments please contact the Registrar: Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Tel: 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras or 44 0 20 8639 3399 from overseas email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Registering on the Registrars website enables you to view your shareholding in Hammerson plc including an indicative share price and valuation, a transaction audit trail and dividend payment history.
paYmenT of dividends To mandaTed aCCounTs Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction available from the Companys Registrars on request or at www.
Under this arrangement, tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address unless the shareholder requests otherwise.
mulTiple aCCounTs Shareholders who receive more than one copy of this Report may have more than one account in their name on the Companys register of members.
Any shareholder wishing to amalgamate their holdings should write to the Companys Registrars giving details of the accounts concerned and instructions on how they should be amalgamated.
Annual Report 2007 109 section n sharehol otes to the Der informa aCCounts tion continued continued CapiTa share dealing serviCes An online and telephone dealing facility is available providing Hammerson shareholders with an easy to access and simple to use service.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras 8.00am-4.30pm Monday to Friday or go to www.
com sharegifT Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writing to ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
unsoliCiTed mail Hammerson is obliged by law to make its share register available on request to other organisations that may then use it as a mailing list.
This may result in you receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you may do so by writing to the Mailing Preference Service, an independent organisation whose services are free to you.
Once your name and address have been added to its records, it will advise the companies and other bodies that support the service that you no longer wish to receive unsolicited mail.
If you would like more details you should write to: The Mailing Preference Service FREEPOST 29 LON 20771 London W1E 0ZT Or telephone their helpline on 0845 703 4599 or register on their website www.
eleCTroniC CommuniCaTion wiTh shareholders At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Companys Articles of Association were amended to permit documents, such as Notices of Meetings, Forms of Proxy and the Annual Report to be sent in electronic form via the internet, rather than in paper form through the post.
Instructions on how the Company will adopt electronic communication will be provided in future shareholder mailings.
websiTe The 2007 Annual Report and other information is available on the Companys website, www.
The Company operates a service whereby all registered users can choose to receive, via e-mail, notice of all Company announcements which can be viewed on the website.
regisTered offiCe 10 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4BJ Registered in England No.
360632 advisers Valuers Cushman & Wakefield DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Solicitors Herbert Smith LLP Stockbrokers Citigroup Deutsche Bank AG prinCipal group addresses uniTed Kingdom franCe Hammerson plc, 10 Grosvenor Street, Hammerson SAS, Washington Plaza Immeuble Artois, London W1K 4BJ 44 rue Washington, 75408 Paris CEDEX 08, France Tel 44 0 20 7887 1000 Tel 33 1 56 69 30 00 Fax 44 0 20 7887 1010 Fax 33 1 56 69 30 01 110 110 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2007 t 2007 UK & FRANCE Section Hammerson owns a portfolio of prime property assets in the UK and France.
The portfolio, which is valued at 7.3 billion, includes 14 major shopping centres, 19 retail parks and nine office properties.
Hammerson owns interests in six of the top 30 UK shopping UK REtAil centres, which receive over 120 million visitors each year.
UK REtAil PARKS The group has led the development of three of the top FRANCE REtAil retail destinations in recent years Bullring, The Oracle and WestQuay.
A further two, Cabot Circus in Bristol oFFiCES and Highcross in Leicester, will open to the public in 2008.
Retail parks represent an important part of Hammersons UK REtAil business.
With 18 parks in the UK, many providing UK REtAil PARKS opportunities for extension and redevelopment, Hammerson FRANCE REtAil represents a key partner for both bulky goods occupiers and expanding fashion retailers seeking efficient floorspace.
oFFiCES The nine French retail assets Hammerson owns or co-owns UK REtAil are concentrated in the Paris area.
The group enjoys critical UK REtAil PARKS mass in this key catchment, with the shopping centres FRANCE REtAil receiving over 80 million visitors a year.
Retail parks represent an increasingly important part of Hammersons oFFiCES French business, with two developments in Northern France.
Hammerson has a track record of office development UK REtAil in the City of London and Paris CBD, creating modern UK REtAil PARKS schemes in architecturally sensitive locations.
The buildings FRANCE REtAil currently owned or co-owned by Hammerson provide over 250,000m of grade A office space.
These accommodate oFFiCES a range of occupiers, from lawyers and insurance companies to banks and financial service providers.
