notes to the aCCounts 1. signifiCanT aCCounTing poliCies sTaTemenT of ComplianCe The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and interpretations adopted by the European Union.
During 2007, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the group: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments - Disclosures Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing costs These pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and guidance relevant to the group were in issue: IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 IFRIC 14: IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 IFRS 8 Operating segments: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements - A revised presentation: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 revised Business combinations: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 These pronouncements, when applied, will either result in changes to presentation and disclosure, or are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
basis of preparaTion The financial statements are presented in sterling.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment and development properties, owner-occupied properties, investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period.
If the revision affects both current and future periods, the change is recognised over those periods.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
However, the nature of Hammersons business means that there is a limited requirement for management to make such judgements or estimates which would have a significant impact on the financial statements.
For example, the single most significant line item in the financial statements, Investment and development properties, is supported by independent valuations.
Adjustments are made to basic earnings and earnings per share for items which management judges are exceptional by virtue of their size or nature.
The Company has elected for UK REIT and French SIIC status.
In order to continue to benefit from these favourable tax regimes, the group is required to comply with certain conditions as outlined in notes 8F and 8G to the accounts.
Management intends that the group should continue as a UK REIT and French SIIC for the foreseeable future.
Management believes that the estimates and associated assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
basis of ConsolidaTion Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the group.
Control is assumed when the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity, or business, to benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Where properties are acquired through corporate acquisitions and there are no significant assets or liabilities other than property, the acquisition is treated as an asset acquisition, in other cases the acquisition method is used.
