DireCtors responsibilities direCTors responsibiliTies in respeCT of The The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting preparaTion of The finanCial sTaTemenTs records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements that the parent company financial statements comply with the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required by the IAS regulation to prepare the group financial statements under The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the corporate and financial information included on the Companys by the European Union.
The group financial statements are also website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definition and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
