notes to the aCCounts 1. signifiCanT aCCounTing poliCies sTaTemenT of ComplianCe The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and interpretations adopted by the European Union.
During 2007, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the group: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments - Disclosures Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing costs These pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and guidance relevant to the group were in issue: IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 IFRIC 14: IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 IFRS 8 Operating segments: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements - A revised presentation: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 revised Business combinations: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 These pronouncements, when applied, will either result in changes to presentation and disclosure, or are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
basis of preparaTion The financial statements are presented in sterling.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment and development properties, owner-occupied properties, investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period.
If the revision affects both current and future periods, the change is recognised over those periods.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
However, the nature of Hammersons business means that there is a limited requirement for management to make such judgements or estimates which would have a significant impact on the financial statements.
For example, the single most significant line item in the financial statements, Investment and development properties, is supported by independent valuations.
Adjustments are made to basic earnings and earnings per share for items which management judges are exceptional by virtue of their size or nature.
The Company has elected for UK REIT and French SIIC status.
In order to continue to benefit from these favourable tax regimes, the group is required to comply with certain conditions as outlined in notes 8F and 8G to the accounts.
Management intends that the group should continue as a UK REIT and French SIIC for the foreseeable future.
Management believes that the estimates and associated assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
basis of ConsolidaTion Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the group.
Control is assumed when the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity, or business, to benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Where properties are acquired through corporate acquisitions and there are no significant assets or liabilities other than property, the acquisition is treated as an asset acquisition, in other cases the acquisition method is used.
074 Annual Report 2007 1. signifiCanT aCCounTing poliCies continued Joint ventures Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the groups proportionate share of assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of joint ventures.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the groups interest in the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reviewed.
Where the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is greater than the cost, the excess, known as negative goodwill, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
foreign CurrenCY Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at exchange rates approximating to the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and, unless they relate to the hedging of the net investment in foreign operations, differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The operating income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period.
Significant transactions, such as property sales, are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of each transaction.
The principal exchange rate used to translate foreign currency-denominated amounts in the balance sheet is the rate at the end of the year, 1 F1.362 2006: 1 F1.484.
The principal exchange rate used for the income statement is the average rate, 1 F1.461 2006: 1 F1.467.
Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, including the effective portions of related foreign currency hedges, are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released to the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.
borrowings, inTeresT and derivaTives Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, after taking account of any discount on issue and attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently borrowings are held at amortised cost, such that discounts and costs are charged to the income statement over the term of the borrowing at a constant return on the carrying amount of the liability.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency movements and interest rate risks.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, which equates to cost and subsequently remeasured at fair value, with changes in fair value being included in the income statement, except that a gain or loss on the portion of an instrument that is an effective hedge for the net investment in a foreign operation is recognised in the hedging reserve.
Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially measured at fair value, subsequently measured at amortised cost and discounted to reflect the time value of money.
Net finance costs Net finance costs include interest payable on borrowings, net of interest capitalised, interest receivable on funds invested, and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Annual Report 2007 075 section notes to the aCCounts continued 1. signifiCanT aCCounTing poliCies continued Capitalisation of interest Interest is capitalised if it is directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of development properties or the redevelopment of investment properties.
Capitalisation commences when the activities to develop the property start and continues until the property is substantially ready for its intended use.
Capitalised interest is calculated with reference to the actual rate payable on borrowings for development purposes or, for that part of the development cost financed out of general funds, to the average rate.
properTY porTfolio Tenant leases Management has exercised judgement in considering the potential transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for all properties leased to tenants and has determined that such leases are operating leases.
Development properties Properties acquired with the intention of redevelopment are classified as development properties and stated at fair value.
Changes in fair value above cost are recognised in equity, and changes in fair value below cost are recognised in the income statement.
All costs directly associated with the purchase and construction of a development property are capitalised.
When development properties are completed, they are reclassified as investment properties and any accumulated revaluation surplus or deficit is transferred to retained earnings.
Investment properties Investment properties are stated at fair value, being market value determined by professionally qualified external valuers, and changes in fair value are included in the income statement.
Depreciation In accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property, no depreciation is provided in respect of investment or development properties.
Leasehold properties Leasehold properties that are leased out to tenants under operating leases are classified as investment properties or development properties, as appropriate, and included in the balance sheet at fair value.
The obligation to the freeholder or superior leaseholder for the buildings element of the leasehold is included in the balance sheet at the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception.
Payments to the freeholder or superior leaseholder are apportioned between a finance charge and a reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Contingent rents payable, such as rent reviews or those related to rental income, are charged as an expense in the periods in which they are incurred.
Net rental income Rental income from investment property leased out under an operating lease is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rents, such as turnover rents, rent reviews and indexation, are recorded as income in the periods in which they are earned.
Rent reviews are recognised when such reviews have been agreed with tenants.
Lease incentives and costs associated with entering into tenant leases are amortised over the period to the first break option or, if the probability that the break option will be exercised is considered low, over the lease term.
Property operating expenses are expensed as incurred and any property operating expenditure not recovered from tenants through service charges is charged to the income statement.
Profits on sale of properties Profits on sale of properties are taken into account on the completion of contract, and are calculated by reference to the carrying value at the end of the previous year, adjusted for subsequent capital expenditure.
076 Annual Report 2007 1. signifiCanT aCCounTing poliCies continued Plant, equipment and owner-occupied property Owner-occupied property held under a finance lease is stated at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity.
The cost of owner-occupied property is depreciated through the income statement over the period to the end of the lease on a straight-line basis, having due regard to its estimated residual value.
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, which is generally between three and five years, or in the case of leasehold improvements, the lease term.
invesTmenTs Investments are classified as available for sale and carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity.
Where a significant or prolonged decline in fair value is identified, the investment is considered impaired and any cumulative revaluation gain or deficit is recycled through the income statement.
emploYee benefiTs Defined contribution pension plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit pension plans The groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans comprises the amount of future benefit that employees have earned, discounted to determine a present value, less the fair value of the pension plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on AAA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in equity.
Where the assets of a plan are greater than its obligation, the asset included in the balance sheet is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reduction in future contributions to the plan.
Share-based employee remuneration Share-based employee remuneration is determined with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted and charged to the income statement over the vesting period on a straight-line basis.
The fair value of share-based employee remuneration is calculated using the binomial option pricing model and is dependent on factors including the exercise price, expected volatility, option life and risk-free interest rate.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been applied to share options granted from November 2002.
Tax Tax is included in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
