Accounting policies General information Basis of consolidation These financial statements are the consolidated financial The Group financial statements include the financial statements of Cobham plc, a public company limited by statements of the parent company and of all its subsidiaries shares, registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom and made up to the end of the financial period.
Joint ventures its subsidiaries the Group.
The address of the registered and associates are accounted for using the equity method office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ.
and include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures and associates from the date Basis of preparation that joint control or significant influence commences until These consolidated financial statements have been prepared the date this ceases.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions, with Interpretation Council IFRIC interpretations and those parts effect from the date control passes.
Purchases of minority of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting interests are accounted for using the economic entity method.
Businesses disposed of are accounted for up until control passes at the point of their disposal.
The results of businesses These financial statements have been prepared on a going disposed of, and of those classified as held for sale at the year concern basis under the historical cost convention, as end are disclosed as arising from discontinued operations modified by the revaluation of certain borrowings and where they meet the criteria to be treated as such.
derivative contracts which are held at fair value.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses The preparation of financial statements in conformity with are eliminated on consolidation.
generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Underlying measures amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group statements and the reported amounts of revenues and has included within its published statements trading profits expenses during the reporting period.
Although these and underlying earnings results.
estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately Trading profit and underlying earnings have been defined to may differ from those estimates.
exclude the impact of the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition, fair value adjustments to inventory The following new standard and amendment to an existing on acquisition, the marking to market of currency instruments standard have been adopted from 1 January 2007: not realised in the period and impairments of goodwill.
There IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a has been no impairment to goodwill in the current or complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation comparative periods.
of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures Revised IAS 23, Borrowing Costs Trading profit and underlying earnings exclude portfolio restructuring costs, which comprise exceptional profits or The implementation of IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: losses arising on disposals actually completed during the Disclosures, and a complementary amendment to IAS 1, period, as well as exceptional costs or profits associated Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures has with the restructuring of the Groups business and property resulted in increased disclosure regarding the Groups financial portfolio.
Trading profit and underlying earnings also exclude instruments and policies for managing capital see notes 27 direct costs associated with exceptional terminated and 28.
The revision to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs, has been acquisitions.
adopted early with effect from 1 January 2007, and no adjustments to Group accounting policies were required on All underlying measures include the revenue and operational adoption of this amendment.
results of both continuing and discontinued businesses until the point of sale.
The following interpretations to existing standards which would be effective for the current year are not considered Revenue recognition relevant to the Groups operations: Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under consideration and is recognised when legal title and the risks IAS 29 financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies and rewards of ownership have been passed to the customer.
IFRIC 8, The Scope of IFRS 2 Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives It excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other sales IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment taxes.
In the case of contracts with a long duration, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date The principal accounting policies, which have been assessed with reference to contract milestones.
consistently applied, are as set out below.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
44 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to operating profit are the current service costs.
Gains and equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
losses on settlements and curtailments arising on a business Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally disposal are included in profit on disposal.
Past service costs enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current are recognised immediately in the income statement if the tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, the same fiscal authority.
costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The expected return on assets and interest cost are shown Dividends within finance income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised they are fully authorised.
Share-based payments Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the For grants made under the Groups equity settled share-based scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are options awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high The costs of awards made under cash settled sharequality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to based payment schemes are measured initially at the grant the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at date and expensed over the vesting period.
The liability is least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
remeasured at each balance sheet date up to and including The resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised separately on the face of the balance sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the income statement in respect of pension costs and other postBlack-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for retirement benefits are the contributions payable in the year.
the impact of market related performance criteria.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either accruals or The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions prepayments in the balance sheet.
of IFRS 2, Share-based payment, in respect of equity settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity settled awards Taxation including deferred taxation granted after 7 November 2002.
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Intangible assets Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs Goodwill from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over Taxable profit excludes items of income and expense that are the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets taxable or deductible in other years and also excludes items that and liabilities of a business, subsidiary or joint venture at the are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current date of acquisition.
tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions since the date of transition to IFRS is treated as a foreign currency asset Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability and revalued at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange method in respect of temporary differences arising between differences arising are taken to the translation reserve the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values and recycled to the income statement when the related in the consolidated financial statements.
Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of Goodwill arising on acquisitions of businesses, subsidiaries the deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, and joint ventures is capitalised and reviewed for impairment accelerated tax depreciation and acquisition accounting.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available Goodwill arising on the purchase of minority interests is taken against which deductible temporary differences can be to reserves under the economic entity method.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to profit or loss on disposal.
Research and development Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability written off as incurred.
Development costs not chargeable is settled.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement to customers are written off as incurred until it can be 45 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as basis to their estimated residual value over their estimated described in IAS 38, Intangible assets, are met, at which useful lives.
point further costs are capitalised as intangible assets until the intangible asset is readily available for sale and is then Aircraft overhaul expenditure amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised useful life.
when incurred and the resultant fixed asset depreciated over its useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are Other intangible assets contractually required on aircraft held under operating leases Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the are provided for over the period between the scheduled Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and maintenance events.
These include customer lists, technology and software, trademarks, licences and patents.
The only Inventories internally generated intangible assets are development costs Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable which are capitalised as described above, and internally value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, developed software where asset recognition criteria are met.
direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out estimated useful life on a straight-line basis as follows: method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be Customer lists 2 to 15 years incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Payments Technology and software 2 to 10 years received and receivable on account of work in progress are Development costs 2 to 10 years deducted from the cost of work carried out at the balance Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years sheet date to the extent of the valuation of the work done.
Property, plant and equipment Pre-contract and bid costs Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for All costs directly attributable to securing contracts incurred impairment at least annually.
after the point that they become virtually certain, but before commencement of the contract, are recognised as an asset.
Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and equipment are Such costs are amortised to the income statement over the held at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any period for which this activity will continue to provide value.
Carrying values are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances Financial instruments indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets than its estimated recoverable amount.
are recognised at trade date.
All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated Financial assets and liabilities on a straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the Financial assets are categorised on initial recognition as estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: assets held at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables dependant upon the purpose for which the assets Freehold buildings including were acquired and as follows: investment properties 50 years Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those Leasehold properties The period of the lease held for trading in the short-term and are classified as Plant and equipment and current assets.
other fixed assets 3 to 15 years Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets which are not quoted in an active market.
These are Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are classified as current or non-current assets dependant upon reviewed annually and adjusted where necessary.
maturity and included within trade and other receivables.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their None of the Groups financial assets fall into the held to expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, maturity or available for sale categories which are defined where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
as follows: Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an assets with fixed maturity dates which the Group intends asset is determined as the difference between the sales to hold to maturity.
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative recognised in the income statement.
financial assets designated by management as available for sale and not falling into any of the above categories.
Investment properties Investment properties, which are properties held to earn Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as rentals and or for capital appreciation, are stated at cost at the liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, or other balance sheet date.
They are depreciated on a straight-line liabilities held at cost.
Liabilities held at fair value through 46 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 profit or loss are those held for trading in the short-term and which have characteristics similar to operating or finance leases.
are classified as current or non-current liabilities dependant All other leases are classified as operating leases.
upon the maturity date of the instruments.
Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets as hedges.
of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the measured at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
Financial a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are statement.
carried at cost, or amortised cost where applicable, using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities not at fair value Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the through profit or loss are stated at cost.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Allowances for irrecoverable the lease term.
amounts are made when there is evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade receivables Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting which are more than six months overdue are provided for based Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently past default experience.
Amounts which are less than six re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising months overdue are provided where recovery of the balance the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative due is considered to be doubtful.
The impairment recorded is is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature the difference between the carrying value of the receivables of the item being hedged.
and the estimated future cashflows.
Any impairment required is recorded in the income statement in administrative expenses.
The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks The balance may be written off in full generally where of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts, amounts previously provided for impairment are released.
interest rate swap contracts and net investment hedges to reduce these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative Trade payables financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged Bank borrowings items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also the amount of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on Borrowing costs, net of amounts capitalised, including an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair issue costs, are charged to the income statement and are values or cash flows of hedged items.
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Currency translation derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to relevant exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies are not property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the accounted for using hedge accounting and movements in fair cost of that asset.
values are shown separately in the income statement as part of operating profit.
Currency translation derivatives entered into to Cash and cash equivalents mitigate foreign exchange impacts arising on the acquisition of Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call fixed assets are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an Fair value hedges integral part of the Groups cash management are included Changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income of the consolidated cash flow statement.
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Leasing The gains or losses relating to interest rate swaps hedging Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms fixed rate borrowings are recognised in finance income and of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of expense in the income statement.
Leases include hire purchase contracts 47 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting policies continued Cash flow hedges Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of The effective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives sale of the relevant products, at the Directors best estimate that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to finance income expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract and expense in the income statement in the periods when the are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any it is considered probable that the conditions attaching to cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains potential payment will be met.
in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged Provisions for major repair and maintenance costs on aircraft transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative held under operating leases are provided over the period gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately transferred to to the next inspection so as to match the costs with the income statement for the period.
Net investment hedges Long-term liabilities and provisions are discounted at an Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are appropriate risk-free rate when the impact is material.
accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of Impairment losses the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the least annually to determine whether there is any indication income statement.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present asset or liability except when the remaining maturity of the value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market hedged item is more than 12 months.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have Foreign currencies not been adjusted.
The functional currency and presentation currency of the parent company is sterling.
Most Group companies use their local An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount currency as their functional currency.
Local transactions in of an asset is less than its recoverable amount.
An intangible currencies other than the functional currency are translated at asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in non-functional may be impaired.
Any impairment losses are recognised in currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the the income statement.
balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement except when deferred in equity An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed as net investment hedges.
only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had risks the Group enters into forward contracts which are been recognised.
Any reversal is recognised in the income accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of Share capital overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements liabilities and equity instruments are classified according of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered exchange as an approximation for actual rates during the year.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a Exchange differences arising on these translations are residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting accounted for in the translation reserve.
Provisions Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is A provision is required when the Group has a present legal redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
probable that settlement will be required of an amount that Dividends on preference share capital classified as liabilities can be reliably estimated.
are recognised in the income statement as finance expense.
48 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Segment accounting policies rates.
The Group uses published indices and independent For reporting purposes the results of the Group are allocated actuarial advice to select the values of critical assumptions, between operating divisions and other activities.
The divisions which are disclosed in note 10. operate in specific market areas and are as described in note 1.
The Group accounting policies as described above are Accounting standards not yet effective applied consistently across all divisions and activities.
Trading Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations between Group companies is contracted and priced at arms of existing standards have been published that are mandatory length commercial terms.
for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods but which the Group has Critical accounting estimates and judgements not adopted early, are as follows: Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are IFRS 8, Operating Segments, is applicable from 1 January based on historical experience and other factors, including 2009 and is not expected to have a significant impact on expectations of future events that are believed to be the Groups reporting of segmental information.
Revisions to IFRS 3, Business Combinations and IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements issued in Management judgement and estimation uncertainty January 2008 are applicable from 1 January 2010.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, Management are currently assessing the impact of these management has made a number of judgements, none of revisions on the reporting of the Groups future operations.
which are considered to have a significant effect on the The January 2008 amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Payment is applicable from 1 January 2009.
The amendment is likely to impact the timing of charges to the Estimates and assumptions concerning the future are also income statement in respect of awards made to employees made by the Group.
The resulting accounting estimates will, under the Groups ShareSave scheme.
by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The key Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of and IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements issued in estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a January 2008 are applicable from 1 January 2009. significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying Management are currently assessing the impact of these amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are revisions on the reporting of the Groups operations.
as follows: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Share-based payment Group and Treasury Share Transactions is applicable from 1 January 2008 and Impairment of goodwill does not have an impact on the reporting of the Groups The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least operations.
This requires estimation of the value in use IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements, is applicable of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
There is no impact of IFRIC 12 on the Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an reporting of the Groups operations.
estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes is not applicable generating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate to the Cobham Group.
in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
IFRIC 14, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2007 was Funding Requirements and their Interaction is applicable 381.8m 2006: 381.8m, further details are given in note 14. from 1 January 2008.
Management are currently assessing the impact of these revisions on the reporting of the Taxation Groups operations.
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
Retirement benefits The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation to retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities which include the long-term rate of increase of salary costs, discount rate, inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality 49 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
