Accounting policies Accounting convention Tangible fixed assets These financial statements have been prepared under the Plant and machinery fixed assets are depreciated on a historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of straight-line basis to their estimated residual values over certain tangible fixed assets and derivative contracts which their estimated useful lives which range from three to five are held at fair value, in accordance with the Companies Act years.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
1985 and applicable accounting standards UK GAAP.
Compliance with SSAP 19, Accounting for investment In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are held properties, requires departure from the requirements of at open market value.
Any aggregate surplus or deficit on the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, and no explanation of the departure is given in the tangible fixed provision is made for depreciation of freehold properties.
assets accounting policy note below.
This departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, which requires all properties to be depreciated, The principal accounting policies, which have been is, in the opinion of the Directors, necessary for the financial consistently applied, are as set out below.
statements to show a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are The depreciation which would, had the provisions of the fully authorised.
Act been followed, have reduced profit for the year is only one of the factors reflected in the valuation and the amount Pensions attributable to this factor cannot reasonably be separately The Company operates and contributes to a multi-employer identified or quantified.
Contributions and pension costs are apportioned across the scheme as a whole and Investments in Group undertakings assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for The scheme is closed to new members and has a high impairment in value and include the fair value at date of proportion of deferred and pensioner members from grant of share options awarded to employees of subsidiary businesses that no longer participate in the scheme.
The undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management Company is therefore not able to identify its share of charges.
underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a reasonable and consistent basis and in accordance with the multiOperating leases employer exemption contained in FRS 17, Retirement Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties benefits, the scheme has been accounted for as if it was a are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line defined contribution scheme.
The charge to the profit and basis over the term of the lease.
loss account therefore reflects payments for the year.
Provisions Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged A provision is recognised when the Company has a present to the profit and loss account in the period the contributions legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and are payable.
it is probable that settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
The Company also makes contributions for certain employees to individual personal pension and stakeholder schemes.
Share capital Contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities the year to which they relate.
and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual agreements entered into.
An equity Deferred taxation instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share capital classified as liabilities A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable when, are recognised in the profit and loss account as interest on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as expense.
more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from Foreign currencies which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions in currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in nonexpected to apply in the periods in which the timing functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax has not been discounted.
92 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 In order to manage the Groups exposure to certain foreign If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net exchange risks, the Company enters into forward contracts cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately and options which are accounted for as derivative financial transferred to the profit and loss account for the period.
Share-based payments Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a Companys share-based payment schemes, amounts which derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently rereflect the fair value of options awarded as at the time of measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the grant are charged to the profit and loss account over the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is vesting period.
The fair value of options awarded to designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts the item being hedged.
recovered as management charges, is recognised as a capital contribution and recorded in investments.
The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and The costs of awards made to employees of Cobham plc interest rates.
The Company uses foreign exchange forward under cash settled share-based payment schemes are contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce these measured initially at the grant date and expensed over the exposures.
The Company does not use derivative financial vesting period.
The liability is remeasured at each balance instruments for speculative purposes.
sheet date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised through the profit and The Company documents at the inception of the transaction loss account.
the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Company the Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and for the impact of market related performance criteria.
on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes The Company has taken advantage of the transitional in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
provisions of FRS 20, Share-based payment, in respect of equity settled awards and has applied FRS 20 only to equity Currency translation derivatives entered into to mitigate settled awards granted after 7 November 2002. foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies are not accounted for using hedge accounting and Critical accounting estimates and judgements movements in fair values are recognised in the profit and loss Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are account as part of operating profit.
based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be Fair value hedges reasonable under the circumstances.
Changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss Management judgement account, together with any changes in the fair value of the In the process of applying the Companys accounting policies, hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged management has made a number of judgements, none of risk.
The gains or losses relating to interest rate swaps which are considered to have a significant effect on the hedging fixed rate borrowings are recognised in the profit amounts recognised in the financial statements.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item, for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to the profit and loss account over the period to maturity.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
93 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
