Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies The directors do not expect that the adoption of the following Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2007 interpretations, which become effective in future periods, will have The Groups principal accounting policies that have been applied a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements are set IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives years presented.
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions A Basis of preparation IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Critical accounting estimates and judgements which comprise standards and interpretations issued by either the The preparation of the financial statements requires management International Accounting Standards Board IASB or the International to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or their of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of predecessors, as adopted by the European Union EU and with contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies which are based on managements best judgement at the date reporting under IFRS.
of preparation of the financial statements deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value The areas where a higher degree of judgement or complexity arise, of derivative financial instruments and certain financial assets that or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the are available for sale or held at fair value through profit or loss.
The consolidated financial statements, are discussed below.
carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged is adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks 1 Discontinued operations that are being hedged.
This valuation is in accordance with IAS 39.
On 30 March 2007 the Group Board announced that it intends to Brokerage has been classified as a discontinued operation in these separate its Brokerage business, effected by an initial public offering on financial statements see Policy C. the New York Stock Exchange of a majority interest.
It is intended that the sale will take place in the third calendar quarter of 2007, subject only Amendments to existing standards and IFRIC interpretations, that to market conditions remaining favourable and shareholder approval.
became effective in the year, have been applied by the Group but As a result, Brokerage has been reclassified as a discontinued operation none of them has had a material impact on the financial statements in these financial statements.
2 Goodwill and other intangible assets During the year to 31 March 2007 each Ordinary Share of 18 US cents The valuation and amortisation periods of intangible assets arising on was sub-divided into six Ordinary Shares of 3 US cents each.
acquisition, such as customer relationships, and the impairment testing All comparative figures in the Annual Report relating to the number of goodwill is based on value in use calculations prepared on the basis of shares in issue, such as earnings per share and dividend per share of managements assumptions and estimates of future cash flows and measures, have been restated by dividing the previously disclosed discount rates.
The amortisation period of the sales commissions, representing the IFRS new standards and interpretations Groups contractual right to benefit from future income from providing The following standards and interpretations have been issued by investment management services, is based on managements estimate the IASB but are not effective for the year ended 31 March 2007 of the weighted average period over which the Group expects to earn and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
economic benefit from the investor being invested in each fund product.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the following standards Management estimate that this period is five years in both the current in future periods will have a material impact on the results or financial and the comparative year.
3 Customer balances IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosure and an amendment to Brokerage maintains certain balances on behalf of customers with third IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements on capital disclosures were party institutions in segregated accounts.
The two main jurisdictions in issued by the IASB in August 2005 and are required to be adopted which customer monies are significant to the Group are in the UK and by the Group for reporting in its financial year ending 31 March 2008. in the US.
These amounts and the related liabilities to customers, whose This new standard and the revision to IAS 1 add further quantitative recourse is limited to the segregated accounts, are not included in the and qualitative disclosures in relation to financial instruments and how Group balance sheet.
Under UK trust law these segregated accounts an entity manages its capital resources.
are legally protected and the Group has concluded that there is an analogous position in the US.
Therefore, the Group does not have a IFRS 8 Operating segments was issued in November 2006 and, liability to its customers in the event that a third party depository if adopted by the EU, will be required to be adopted by the Group institution, where the segregated accounts are held, does not return for reporting in its financial year ending 31 March 2010.
The new all the segregated funds.
In addition, the corresponding asset is not standard adopts a management approach under which segmental co-mingled with the Groups funds and the Groups control over such information is to be disclosed on the same basis as that used for assets is severely restricted.
For these reasons customer balances are internal reporting purposes.
not recognised on the balance sheet as they do not give rise to an asset or a liability of the Group.
83 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies continued Customer balances are only relevant to Brokerage discontinued Employee share ownership trusts have been established for the operation and therefore, subject to the intended disposal of Brokerage purposes of satisfying certain share based awards.
These trusts are being completed, this accounting policy will not be relevant for the fully consolidated within the financial statements.
Groups financial statements in future periods.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 4 Treatment of fund entities of which the Group is the investment transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that manager control ceases.
The Group is investment manager to a number of fund entities and in addition provides a number of other administrative services.
Having The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the considered all significant aspects of the Groups relationships with the acquisition of subsidiaries or businesses.
The cost of an acquisition fund entities, the directors are of the opinion that, although the Group is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued may have significant influence over fund entities, the existence of the and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs investment management contract and provision of other administrative directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and services do not give the Group control over the fund entities.
The key liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are considerations taken into account in reaching this judgement include: measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the existence of independent, empowered boards of directors: the the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition influence of investors: the investment management contract termination over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets provisions: and, the arms length nature of the Groups contracts with acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions and balances between Group companies 5 Exchangeable bonds are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the As at the date of the Groups transition to IFRS 1 April 2004, transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
the 400 million exchangeable bonds issued by the Group were Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary accounted for as a liability measured at amortised cost with the to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group for conversion option classified as a derivative with foreign currency and preparing the consolidated financial statements.
own equity characteristics measured at fair value with the resulting gains and losses being reported in the income statement.
This accounting 2 Associates and joint ventures treatment was adopted because the exchangeable bonds included a Associates are all entities in which the Group holds an interest and over cash settlement option and on application of IAS 21 the functional which it has significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all currency of Man Group plc changed from sterling to US dollars.
entities in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which are On 5 November 2004, the cash settlement option was revoked and jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other parties under the Group put in place a US dollar sterling cross currency swap.
changes enabled the Group to split account for the exchangeable bonds restoring the Group to the position it was in when it originally issued the Investments in associates and joint ventures are generally accounted for bonds November 2002, as the conversion option would be settled by by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost, exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial asset for a fixed except for investments in fund entities that are fair valued through the number of shares.
Accordingly, the directors have determined that the income statement as described below.
The Groups investment in conversion option should be classified as an equity instrument from associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated 5 November 2004 and not subsequently remeasured.
impairment loss identified on acquisition see Policy H. 6 Income taxes Under the equity method, the Groups share of its associates and joint The Group is subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions.
Judgement ventures post-acquisition profits or losses after tax that is borne by the is required in determining estimates in relation to the worldwide provision associate or joint venture is recognised in the income statement, and for income taxes.
There are transactions for which the ultimate tax its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that against the carrying amount of the investment.
were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in B Consolidation the associates and joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated 1 Subsidiaries unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over transferred.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are adopted by the Group.
currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Details of Forester Ltd, the Where the Group is an investor and has significant influence over the Groups only material special purpose entity, are given in Note 33 to fund entities through its role as investment manager those fund entities the financial statements.
are associates of the Group.
The investments in these fund entities are either short-term liquidity investments or seeding investments.
These investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period of the change.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 84 Financial Statements liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in other C Discontinued operations operating income or losses in the income statement, except when When the Group is committed to dispose of a business segment that deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
represents a separate major line of business, and it is intended that such a disposal will be completed within one year of the decision to sell, 3 Group companies it classifies such a business segment as a discontinued operation, The results and financial position of all the group entities none of which in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional discontinued operations.
The assets of the discontinued operation currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the disposal group are presented separately from other assets on the Group presentation currency as follows: balance sheet and the liabilities of the discontinued operation disposal group are presented separately from other liabilities on the Group a assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of the disposal group classified closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance sheet is not restated.
b income and expenses for each income statement are translated at The post-tax result of the discontinued operation is shown as a single average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods: amount on the face of the Group income statement, with a restatement of the comparative period.
In determining the post-tax result of the c all resulting exchange differences are included in the cumulative discontinued operation only those central costs that will be eliminated translation adjustment reserve within equity.
on disposal are allocated to the discontinued operation.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign D Presentation of exceptional items entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and For continuing operations, the Group shows any exceptional items in a translated at the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
separate column or row on the face of the Group income statement.
For discontinued operations, the Group shows exceptional items separately On transition to IFRS 1 April 2004, the Group brought forward a nil in the footnote analysing the income statement of the discontinued opening balance on the cumulative translation adjustment reserve operation.
The Group defines exceptional items as those material items, arising from the retranslation of foreign operations.
by virtue of their size or nature, which the Group considers should be presented separately in order to aid comparability from period to period.
G Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent E Segment reporting depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item components operating in other economic environments.
Business can be measured reliably.
All other repair and maintenance expenditures segments are the primary reporting segments as this is the basis on are charged to the income statement during the financial period in when which the Group is managed and reported internally.
Following the they are incurred.
announcement on 30 March 2007 relating to the intention to sell Brokerage, the Group has one continuing business segment, being Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the Asset Management.
The analyses by geographical segment are based cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as on the location of the customer.
In Asset Management, this is the where follows: the fund product entities, from which fee income is earned, are registered.
Buildings life of the lease F Foreign currency translation Equipment 3 10 years 1 Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life which is the Companys functional and presentation currency and the of the related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, currency in which the majority of the Groups revenue streams, assets, whichever is sooner.
liabilities and funding is denominated.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount operates the functional currency.
is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount 2 Transactions and balances see Policy I.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant Group entitys functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the of the transactions, or where it is more practical a group entity may use disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the an average rate for the week or month for all transactions in each foreign income statement.
currency occurring during that week or month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Foreign exchange gains Any borrowing costs associated with purchasing property, plant and and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from equipment are expensed.
the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and 85 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies continued 4 Computer software H Intangible assets Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the 1 Goodwill costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired useful lives three to five years.
subsidiary, associate or business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is included in intangible Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investment programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are to the entity sold.
Direct costs include software development and associated employee costs.
Computer software Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to equity prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 5 All intangible assets subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount 2 Sales commissions is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets In Asset Management, sales commissions are paid to intermediaries carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount agents and to employees.
Sales commissions are recognised as see Policy I. follows: Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the a Upfront commissions paid to distributors intermediaries and to disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the employees income statement.
In many instances, upfront commission is paid to distributors and or employees when a fund product is first launched, and is based on the I Impairment of non-financial assets amount of investors monies introduced.
This upfront commission is Goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to an incremental cost that is directly attributable to securing investors amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are in fund products from which the Group earns income based on an subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment investment management contract with the relevant fund.
Accordingly whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying an intangible asset is recognised in accordance with IFRS, amount may not be recoverable.
representing the Groups contractual right to benefit from future income from providing investment management services.
The carrying An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the period value of this intangible asset is based on the value of the initial upfront in which it occurs at the amount by which the assets carrying amount commission payments made to distributors and employees less an exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is amortisation charge.
This intangible asset is amortised over five years the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
on a straight-line basis, the weighted average period over which the Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows Group expects to earn an economic benefit from the investor being obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those invested in the fund product.
resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are All unamortised sales commission is subject to impairment testing grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable each period to ensure that the future economic benefits arising from cash flows cash-generating units.
each fund product sale made is in excess of the remaining unamortised commission.
Where it is not, the unamortised portion J Investments is written down as a charge to the income statement.
1 Classification The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: b Trail commissions financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: Commission payments made to distributors intermediaries for held to maturity investments: and available-for-sale financial assets.
ongoing services trail commissions are charged to the income The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Management determines the classification of investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates, where permitted, this designation 3 Customer relationships in Brokerage at each reporting date.
Customer relationships are recognised when they are acquired through a business combination.
Their value at the date of acquisition is generally a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss determined using a combination of market comparable method and This category includes financial assets held for trading and those income approach methodologies such as the discounted cash flow designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
method which estimates net cash flows attributable to the assets over A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally their economic lives and discounts to present value using an appropriate for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading and the time value of money.
Customer relationships are amortised using unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 15 years.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 86 Financial Statements classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are 3 Impairment expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is Such investments in Brokerage include: long stock positions held objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is for matching CFD positions: certificates of deposit and US treasury bills: impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, and in Asset Management: investments in fund products relating to a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its seeding investments: and investments to aid short-term rebalancing of cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any the funds and redemption bridging activities liquidity investments.
such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the b Loans and receivables current fair value, less any impairment loss on the financial asset Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a in the income statement on available-for-sale equity instruments are debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included not reversed through the income statement.
in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
K Derivative financial instruments Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables 1 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in the balance sheet see Policy L. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at c Held to maturity investments their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group intends to and has the ability to hold to maturity.
The Group uses this designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of category for the repurchase agreements to maturity investments in recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : US treasuries in Brokerage.
or 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge.
d Available-for-sale financial assets The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk designated in this category or not classified in any of the other management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are of the balance sheet date.
Such investments include exchange shares used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes and market seats.
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
2 Measurement a Fair value hedge Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date, Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs in other operating income and losses, together with any changes for available-for-sale financial assets.
Investments are derecognised when in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have to the hedged risk.
been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Held to maturity investments are measured at b Cash flow hedge amortised cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in value in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is cost using the effective interest method.
Fair value gains and losses arising recognised immediately in the income statement.
from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are included in other operating income or losses in Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Fair value gains statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect the and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale income statement for instance when the forecast payment that investments are recognised as a separate component of equity until the is hedged takes place.
investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge previously reported in equity is included in other operating income or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative losses in the income statement.
gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recycled in the income statement when the forecast transaction The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain the Group establishes fair value by using appropriate valuation or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, the income statement.
reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuers specific circumstances see Policy U.
87 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies continued c Derivatives that are held for trading purposes or that do not qualify The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit for hedge accounting pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Certain derivative instruments are held for trading or are held balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with for hedging purposes but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service The changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by are recognised immediately in the income statement.
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 2 Financial risk factors discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of A qualitative analysis of the financial risks facing the Group, which high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in includes quantitative disclosures, is provided in the Risk Management which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity section on pages 48-59 of this Annual Report.
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
L Trade receivables In accordance with the transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1 Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently First time adoption of international financial reporting standards, all measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less cumulative actuarial gains and losses at the date of the Groups IFRS provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables transition 1 April 2004 were recognised in full.
Since 1 April 2004, is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the changes in actuarial assumptions are not recognised in the current receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the period unless the cumulative unrecognised gain or loss at the end of assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash the previous reporting period exceeds the greater of 10% of the scheme flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the assets or liabilities.
In these circumstances the excess is charged or provision is recognised in the income statement.
credited to the income statement over the employees expected average remaining working lives.
M Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are included within In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
For the purposes of over the vesting period.
the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts where such For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly facilities form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment N Borrowings obligation once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund Any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the or a reduction in the future payments is available.
redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
2 Share-based compensation The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
Long-term borrowings include exchangeable bonds.
The fair value The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the share of the liability portion of the exchangeable bonds is determined on awards and options granted is recognised as an expense, with the the issue date using a market interest rate for an equivalent noncorresponding credit being recognised in equity.
The total amount to be exchangeable bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity value of the shares and options awarded granted, excluding the impact of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to the of any non-market vesting conditions for example, earnings per share and conversion options.
These are recognised as equity instruments return on equity targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in and included in equity, net of income tax effects.
assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the 12 months after the balance sheet date.
income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
O Employee benefits The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs 1 Pension obligations are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are the options are exercised.
funded through payments to trustee-administered funds or insurance companies, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has 3 Phantom equity-based compensation both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit The Group also operates phantom cash-settled, equity-based plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that compensation plans.
The equity base is typically some of the fund an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or products of which the Group is the investment manager.
The fair value more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined of the employee services received in exchange for the phantom equity contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed awards is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed contributions into a separate fund.
over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 88 Financial Statements awards, remeasured at each reporting date until the settlement date is a fixed amount of cash or other financial asset for a fixed number of reached.
The fair value of the awards equates to the fair value of the own shares are classified as equity instruments.
All other contracts underlying investment in the nominated fund entity at the settlement date.
on own equity are treated as derivatives and fair valued through the income statement.
4 Profit-sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profitContracts entered into with a third party to buy back the Companys sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit shares during a close period give rise to an obligation for the Group.
attributable to the Companys shareholders above a hurdle rate based This obligation is included in trade and other payables and deducted on the Groups cost of equity.
from equity on the balance sheet for the value of the maximum number of shares that may be purchased under the contract with the third party.
5 Termination benefits If the number of shares repurchased by the third party is not the Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before maximum then there is a reversal through equity for that amount.
the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary Any changes in the share price from the date of the contract are redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises taken through the income statement.
termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a S Income recognition detailed formal plan without realistic possibility of withdrawal: or providing 1 Revenue termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary Revenue comprises the fair value for the provision of services, net of any redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after the elimination of sales sheet date are discounted to present value.
Revenue is recognised as follows: P Provisions a Performance fees in Asset Management Provisions for costs, such as restructuring costs and legal claims, Performance fees are calculated as a percentage of the net are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive appreciation of the relevant fund products net asset value at the end obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an of a given contractual period referred to as the performance period.
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the In accordance with IAS 18, performance fees are only recognised amount can be reliably estimated.
once they can be measured reliably.
The Group can only reliably measure performance fees at the end of the performance period as Q Deferred income tax the net asset value of the fund products could move significantly, as Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on a result of market movements, between the Groups balance sheet temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and date and the end of the performance period.
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial b Management fees in Asset Management recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business Management fees, which include all non-performance related fees, combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting are recognised in the period in which the services are rendered.
nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or c Fees and commissions in Brokerage substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to Execution and clearing commissions are recognised in the period apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the in which the services are rendered.
To represent the substance of deferred income tax liability is settled.
matched principal transactions entered into by the Group, where it acts as principal for the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is to third parties, commission income is the difference between the probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the consideration received on the sale of the security and its purchase.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Administration fee income earned from customer balances is recognised in the period in which services are rendered.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of 2 Interest income the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group foreseeable future.
reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest R Share capital and own shares rate of the instrument and continues unwinding the discount as Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly interest income.
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
3 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment Own shares held through an ESOP trust are recorded at cost, including is established.
any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, and are deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until T Cost of sales the shares are transferred to employees or sold.
Where such shares are Commissions and distribution fees payable are recognised over subsequently sold, any consideration received, net of any directly the period for which the service is provided.
Further details on the attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, amortisation of intangible assets relating to upfront sales commissions is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
are given in Policy H. Derivative contracts on own shares that only result in the delivery of 89 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements Principal Accounting Policies continued U Fair value estimation Z Gross up of Brokerage assets and liabilities relating The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as to its repurchase agreements to maturity transactions exchange traded derivatives, and trading and available-for-sale securities As part of the acquisition of the Refco assets towards the end of the is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
prior financial year, Brokerage acquired a line of business whereby it enters into repurchase transactions with counterparties that have an end Where a bid offer spread exists, the quoted market price used for financial date which is the same as the maturity of the underlying collateral, which assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted is in the form of US Treasuries.
market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active During the financial year ended 31 March 2007, once complete reporting market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using procedures had been agreed and implemented for this new line of valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes business, it was determined that the assets and liabilities should be assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet, as the derecognition balance sheet date.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted criteria in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial have not been met.
Although a significant proportion of the risks and instruments.
rewards in relation to the assets and liabilities have been transferred when considering the repurchase transaction as a whole, they have not V Leases been transferred when considering the asset and related liability in Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of isolation, as required by IAS 39.
The gross up of assets in 2007 is ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
included in: non-current investments $261 million 2006: $1,927 million : Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received non-current receivables $257 million 2006: $1,941 million : short-term from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line investments $4,203 million 2006: $1,570 million : and current trade and basis over the period of the lease.
The gross up of liabilities in 2007 is included in: non-current trade payables $518 million W Dividend distribution 2006: $3,868 million and current payables of $7,792 million $2006: Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a $1,716 million.
There is no impact on the income statement or on net liability in the Groups financial statements, and directly in equity, in the assets or cash flow in either year.
period in which the dividend is paid or, if required, approved by the Companys shareholders.
The following accounting policies and changes in presentation only apply to the discontinued operation: X Customer balances As required by the United Kingdom Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and by the US Commodity Exchange Act, Brokerage maintains certain balances on behalf of clients with banks, exchanges, clearing houses and brokers in segregated accounts.
These amounts and the related liabilities to clients, whose recourse is limited to the segregated accounts, are not included in the balance sheet.
They are not recognised on the Group balance sheet as the Group does not control the assets and does not have a present obligation arising from customer money lodged with third party financial institutions, and hence the customer funds and related liabilities do not meet the definition of an asset and liability as defined by the IAS framework.
Y Retention payments Retention payments are made in Brokerage to certain recruited employees or to those who join the Group through acquisitions.
These payments are deferred in the balance sheet and charged to the income statement on the administrative expenses line over the period in which they are committed to give their services to the Group.
If an employee leaves during the retention period, the Group recovers an appropriate proportion of their loan.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 90
