Notes to the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 14.
Share-based payments The Company recognised a total expense of 1.3 million 2006: 0.7 million in respect of all share-based payments in the year.
Share-based payments include share options and conditional share awards.
Share options The Company issues share options to certain employees.
The grant price for share options is equal to the average quoted market price of the Company shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is typically three years.
If share options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Share options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Company before the options vest and are subject to EPS performance conditions.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Details of outstanding share options are provided in note 32 to the Groups financial statements.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 0.98 2006: 0.92.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average exercise price of 1.04 2006: 1.07, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.9 years 2006: 5.4 years.
The fair value per option granted weighted average in the year was 0.38 2006: 0.36.
The fair value of share options was determined using a stochastic model using the assumptions given in the table below.
2007 2006 Expected life 5 years 3 years Weighted average share price 149.00 135.75 Weighted average exercise price 147.50 134.00 Expected volatility 19.0% 23.0% Risk free rate 5.7% 4.4% Expected dividend yield 1.4% 1.2% Expected volatility was determined by considering the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous three years, with certain periods where the share price was particularly volatile for specific reasons, being disregarded as these were not considered to be indicative of expected future volatility.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Company recognised a total expense of 0.3 million 2006: 0.3 million in respect of share options in the year.
Conditional share awards The Company issues conditional share awards to certain employees.
The extent to which awards vest is determined partly by reference to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to a group of similar businesses and partly by reference to the Companys EPS growth relative to RPI.
The fair value of conditional share awards was determined using a stochastic model using the assumptions given in the table above.
The Company recognised a total expense of 1.0 million 2006: 0.4 million in respect of conditional share awards in the year.
Operating lease arrangements 2007 2006 m m Operating lease payments recognised in income for the year 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2007, there were the following annual commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases: 2007 2006 m m Operating leases that expire Within 1 year 0.2 In the second to fifth years inclusive After 5 years 0.4 0.8 0.6 0.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 121 Notes to the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 16.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings All shareholdings are of ordinary shares.
All of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings disclosed above are directly held.
Principal subsidiary undertakings Country of incorporation Effective interest in issued share and operation capital at 31 December 2007 Media Communications Aegis Media France S. A.
S France 100% Aegis Media Nederland BV Netherlands 100% Aegis Media Italia Srl Italy 100% Aegis Media Iberia S. L Spain 100% Aegis Media Central Europe & Africa GmbH Germany 100% Aegis Media Ltd England and Wales 100% Eaton Gate Inc USA 100% AgenciaClick Midia Interativa SA Brazil 100% Market Research Synovate Inc USA 100% Synovate Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100% Synovate Ltd England and Wales 100% Synovate Asia Pacific BVI Ltd British Virgin Islands 100% Principal associate undertakings Media Communications Qin Jia Yuan Media Services Company Ltd China 15.9% LAgence Citizen Press S. A. France 49.8% LAgence Des Services del la Presse et fide Ledition SAS France 49.8% 122 Aegis Group plc Glossary of terms The Group Organic growth Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Organic growth represents year on year growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
Aegis Media Constant currency results The media communications division of Aegis Group plc.
Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year local currency amounts using current year exchange rates.
Synovate The market research division of Aegis Group plc.
Underlying results Underlying operating profit, underlying profit before interest and tax, underlying Billings profit before tax, and underlying profit after tax are operating profit, profit The annualised value of media purchased and or managed on behalf of before interest and tax, profit before tax, and profit after tax respectively, stated clients, before agency discounts.
before those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying Turnover performance achieved by the Group and its businesses adjusting items.
Represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group on behalf of Such adjusting items are material by nature or amount in the opinion of the clients, together with fees invoiced for media and research services provided.
directors and may include impairment charges and other exceptional items which are material by nature or amount in the opinion of the directors, Revenue including profits and losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of The value of media and research fees and commission earned by the Group.
purchased intangible assets, unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in Gross profit respect of put option agreements, and any related tax thereon, as appropriate.
Media and research income after deduction of all direct costs.
Adjusting items may also include specific tax items such as the benefit arising on the reduction of certain tax liabilities in a particular half-year period and Gross margin deferred tax liabilities for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where Gross profit stated as a percentage of turnover.
a deferred tax liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Operating profit Gross profit less operating expenses.
Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating and financing according to the nature of the underlying income or expense.
Operating margin Goodwill Operating profit stated as a percentage of revenue.
The difference between the fair value of purchase consideration of a business as a whole and the aggregate fair value of its separable net assets.
Net new business The annualised value of media billings gained less the annualised value Minority interests of media billings lost.
Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external shareholders.
Reported growth Emerging markets Reported growth represents the year on year growth including the effect Emerging markets comprise Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the year and movements Asia-Pacific with the exception of Australia, New Zealand and Japan and in exchange rates.
the Middle East and Africa.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 123 Designed and produced by 35 Communications Printed by Royle Corporate Print Board photography by Edward Webb Illustrations by Carol Del Angel, Kieron Molloy, Ashley Russell and Recycled Craig Ward.
Supporting responsible use of forest resources Cert no TT-COC-00228 www.
org 1996 Forest Stewardship Council This Report is printed on Take 2 Offset, This is printed using soya-based inks which are comprising of 100% FSC recycled fibres biodegradable, renewable and emit fewer sourced entirely from post consumer waste.
volatile organic compounds VOCs than mineralThe pulp is bleached using a combination of based inks.
The printer holds ISO 14001 Elemental Chlorine Free EFC and Totally Environmental Management Certification and Chlorine Free TFC methods.
124 Aegis Group plc Aegis Group plc 180 Great Portland Street London W1W 5QZ www.
