91 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Shareholder information Registrars and transfer ofce within the UK: 0906 843 3250 and on the More detailed information on this or similar Companys website: www.
activity can be found on the FSA website All matters relating to the administration of www.
shareholdings should be directed to Capita ShareGift Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Unsolicited mail Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, within the UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost is a free service for shareholders wishing to give The Company is legally obliged to make its 10 pence per minute plus network extras and shares to charitable causes.
It is particularly register of members available to the public.
from overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: email: useful for those shareholders who may wish to As a consequence of this some shareholders ssd@capitaregistrars.
dispose of a small quantity of shares where the might have received unsolicited mail.
UK market value makes it uneconomic to sell on a shareholders wishing to limit the amount Shareholders can register online to view commission basis.
Further information can be of such mail should write to the Mailing their Compass Group PLC shareholding obtained from ShareGift telephone within the Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 details using the Share Portal, a service offered UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
org UK shareholders may register online at accessed at www.
uk or request an Shareholders registering for the Share Portal application form by calling from within will require their investor code which is shown American Depositary Receipts ADRs the UK: 0845 703 4599. on share certificates and on the form of proxy The Company operates an ADR programme.
The service Identity theft protecting an Each ADR is equivalent to one Compass enables shareholders to do all of the following: investment Group PLC ordinary share and trades under the symbol CMPGY.
Further information can Criminals may steal shareholders personal check their shareholdings in Compass information putting a holding at risk.
be obtained from The Bank of New York Group PLC 24 hours a day: Mellon, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, register their email and mailing preference Advice on protecting a shareholding: Church Street Station, New York, NY 10286- post or electronic for future shareholder 1258, telephone: within the US toll free 1-888 mailings: Ensure certificates are kept in a safe place BNY-ADRs and from overseas 1 212 815 gain easy access to a variety of shareholder or hold shares electronically in CREST 3700: email: shareowners@bankofny.
com and information including indicative valuation via a nominee.
com and and payment instruction details: and Keep all correspondence from the www.
use the Internet to appoint a proxy to Registrars which shows a shareholder attend general meetings of Compass investor code in a safe place, or destroy Warning about unsolicited Group PLC.
investment contacts When changing address, inform the Electronic communications Many companies have become aware that Registrars.
If a letter from the Registrars is their shareholders have received unsolicited The Company can, at shareholders request, received regarding a change of address and telephone calls or correspondence concerning send shareholders an email notification each there has been no recent move, contact the investment matters.
These are typically from time a new shareholder report or other Registrars immediately.
The shareholder overseas based brokers who target UK shareholder communication is placed on its concerned may be a victim of identity theft.
shareholders offering to sell them what often website.
This enables shareholders to read Know when the dividends are paid.
turns out to be worthless or high risk shares in and or download the information at their Shareholders may wish to consider having US or UK investments.
Shareholders can still request paper their dividends paid directly into their bank advised to be very wary of any unsolicited copies of the documents if they so wish.
or building society account, both for the advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or convenience and the resulting reduction in offers of free company reports.
To encourage shareholders to convert to the risk of the cheque being intercepted or e-communications, the Company will arrange lost in the post.
To take advantage of this If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: for a sapling tree to be planted in the UK for dividend mandate facility, contact the each shareholder who chooses to receive all Registrars, telephone within the UK: Make sure you get the correct name of the future communications electronically.
The 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per person and organisation.
next opportunity for the Company to notify minute plus network extras and from Check that they are properly authorised shareholders electronically will be for the overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: or by the Financial Services Authority before Interim Report, to be published in June 2008. alternatively complete a form online at getting involved.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP using the Share Portal service.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list On changing bank or building society The Company has introduced a DRIP of unauthorised overseas firms who are account, inform the Registrars of the service, provided by Capita IRG Trustees targeting, or have targeted, UK investors details of the new account and respond to Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible and any approach from such organisations any letters the Registrars send about this.
shareholders to use the whole of their cash should be reported to the FSA so that this When buying or selling shares, shareholders dividend to buy additional shares in the list can be kept up to date and any other should seek to only deal with brokers Company, increasing their shareholding.
appropriate action can be considered.
If registered in their country of residence Additional information, including details of you deal with an unauthorised firm, you or the UK.
how to sign up, can be obtained from Capita would not be eligible to receive payment IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the under the Financial Services Compensation Financial calendar UK: 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10 pence per Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by minute plus network extras and from completing an online form at Annual General Meeting: overseas: 44 20 8639 3402: email: www.
Inform our Registrars by telephone within Results announcements: the UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence Half year May Share price information per minute plus network extras and from Full year late November early December overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: email: The current price of the Companys shares is Dividend payments: ssd@capitaregistrars.
