93 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Index to the consolidated financial statements Note Page Our vision is to be a world-class provider Independent auditors report 40 Consolidated income statement 41 of contract foodservice and support services, Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 42 renowned for our great people, our great service Consolidated balance sheet 43 Consolidated cash flow statement 44 and our great results.
To achieve this everyone Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 44 in Compass Group is committed to consistently Accounting policies 45 delivering superior service in the most efficient 1 Segmental reporting 49 2 Operating costs 52 way for the shared benefit of our customers, 3 Employees 53 shareholders and employees.
4 Finance income and costs 54 5Tax 54 6 Discontinued operations 56 7 Exceptional items 58 8 Earnings per share 59 Contents 9 Dividends 59 10 Goodwill 60 11 Other intangible assets 61 12 Property, plant and equipment 62 01 2007 highlights 13 Interests in associates 63 02 Group at a glance 04 Chairmans statement 14 Other investments 63 Delivering on our commitments 15 Joint ventures 64 06 Chief Executives statement 16 Trade and other receivables 64 Driving performance 13 Business review 17 Inventories 64 17 Board of directors 18 Cash and cash equivalents 65 18 Acting responsibly 19 Short-term and long-term borrowings 65 24 Directors report 24 Report of the directors 20 Derivative financial instruments 66 27 Corporate governance 21 Trade and other payables 69 33 Directors remuneration report 22 Provisions 70 40 Consolidated financial statements 23 Post-employment benefit obligations 70 84 Parent Company financial statements 91 Shareholder information 24 Called up share capital 74 93 Index to the consolidated financial statements 25 Reconciliation of movements in equity 75 93 Index to the Parent Company financial statements 26 Share-based payments 76 27 Business combinations 79 28 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 79 29 Cash flow from discontinued operations 80 30 Analysis of net debt 80 31 Contingent liabilities 81 32 Capital commitments 81 33 Operating lease and concessions commitments 81 34 Related party transactions 82 35 Post balance sheet events 82 36 Exchange rates 82 37 Details of principal subsidiary companies 83 Forward looking statements Index to the Parent Company financial statements This Report contains forward looking statements within Note Page the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as Directors responsibilities 84 amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, Independent auditors report 85 as amended.
These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could Parent Company balance sheet 86 differ materially from those currently being anticipated as Parent Company accounting policies 87 reflected in such forward looking statements.
The terms 1 Profit and loss account disclosures 88 expect, should be, will be, is likely to and similar expressions identify forward looking statements.
Factors 2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 88 which may cause future outcomes to differ from those 3 Debtors 88 foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are 4 Creditors 88 not limited to: general economic conditions and business 5 Maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and conditions in Compass Groups markets: exchange rate derivative financial instruments 89 fluctuations: customers and clients acceptance of its products and services: the actions of competitors: and 6 Derivative financial instruments 89 legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
7 Share capital 90 8 Capital and reserves 90 9 Contingent liabilities 90 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Delivering profitable growth Registered office Annual Report 2007 Compass Group PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Registered No: 4083914 Tel 44 0 1932 573 000 Fax 44 0 1932 569 956 www.
com Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Hill House 1 Little New Street London EC4A 3TR Financial advisors Citigroup Global Markets Ltd Citigroup Centre 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB Legal advisors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Stockbrokers Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Merrill Lynch International Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Our vision is to be a world-class provider Delivering of contract foodservice and support services, renowned for our great people, our great service profitable and our great results.
To achieve this everyone in Compass Group is committed to consistently growth delivering superior service in the most efficient way for the shared benefit of our customers, Registered office Annual Review 2007 Compass Group PLC shareholders and employees.
Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Registered No: 4083914 Contents Tel 44 0 1932 573 000 Fax 44 0 1932 569 956 www.
com 01 2007 highlights 02 Chairmans statement Delivering on our commitments 04 Chief Executives statement Driving performance Auditors 11 Summary business review Deloitte & Touche LLP 14 Board of directors Hill House 15 Acting responsibly 1 Little New Street 20 Summary directors report London EC4A 3TR 20 Summary report of the directors 21 Summary directors remuneration report Financial advisors 28 Summary consolidated financial statements Citigroup Global Markets Ltd 40 Shareholder information Citigroup Centre 41 Index to the summary financial statements 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB Legal advisors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Stockbrokers Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Merrill Lynch International Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140.
41 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Group at a glance Our marketplace Regional review at a glance Our marketplace North America Continental Europe Our aim is to achieve market leadership Developing our people Our strategy focuses on the For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid in the sectors and countries that we have and valuing diversity Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy expansion of the senior-living market.
Building on our outsourced foodservice and of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event, experience of providing foodservice in the residential identified as having real prospects for strong To value and recognise the diversity and the Governors Ball.
In the same month Compass care homes market, we have developed a delivered support services markets, long-term organic growth and provide the contribution of our people.
We create a work foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th meals service for senior and handicapped people building on the existing global capability necessary to grow our environment that is challenging and provides Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players Party at home: a model for other countries with ageing Number of Shares and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this populations looking for an alternative to moving international client base.
the opportunities and support for everyone expertise and strengths we Number of Holders shares held held years Super Bowl.
In the last year we have to develop, learn and succeed.
Shareholder analysis holders % millions % have as a Group.
delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home Our guiding principles form the basis of providing a varied, healthy diet.
Type of holder: our approach to delivering this strategy: Profitable growth We estimate that outsourcing growth in Individuals 61,918 92.4 87 4.5 To deliver shareholder value through Percentage of Percentage of Revenue Revenue the foodservice market which we estimate Institutional and other investors 5,112 7.6 1,840 95.5 Health, safety and environment first disciplined, sustainable growth, underpinned Group revenue Group revenue is 150 billion is at least 5% per annum.
2006: 4,290m 2006: 2,484m Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0 Never to compromise on the health and by strong governance, that contributes to and As market leader, we will strive for more 40% 25% safety of our customers and our people, leverages the benefits of our global scale.
and faster penetration of the foodservice 2006: 42% 2006: 24% Size of holding: and to manage responsibly the impact 4,162m 2,553m market that is still self operated.
The support 1-100 13,402 20.0 1 0.0 that our business has on the environment.
Constant focus on services market is significantly larger than 3 3 101-200 10,979 16.4 2 0.1 performance and efficiency Operating profit Operating profit the foodservice market and growing at a 201-500 16,454 24.5 5 0.3 Delivering for clients and consumers To deliver the highest quality and 2006: 245m 2006: 122m faster rate.
501-1,000 10,728 16.0 8 0.4 To earn the continued loyalty of our performance, whilst relentlessly driving to 1,001-2,000 7,797 11.6 11 0.6 customers by consistently demonstrating be the lowest cost, most efficient provider.
Regional highlights In Healthcare, 7% organic growth Regional highlights Continued high activity in the oil 10,001-50,000 750 1.1 16 0.8 Continued excellent progress from increased cross-selling between Organic revenue growth has doubled and gas industry in the Nordic region 50,001-100,000 174 0.3 12 0.7 delivering 6% organic revenue growth.
Morrison, our foodservice business, to 4%, with good growth opportunities contributed to 14% organic revenue Leading sector expertise Operating profit from continuing and Crothall, our support services for the future.
growth, while the focus on healthy 100,001-500,000 306 0.5 74 3.8 operations increased by 39 million business.
On a constant currency basis, growth eating continues to drive volumes 500,001-1,000,000 99 0.1 70 3.6 on a constant currency basis to Healthy eating programmes and of 31 million operating profit from through much of the region.
1,000,001-5,000,000 159 0.2 361 18.7 261 million 2006: 222 million, the strength of the Chartwells brand continuing operations to 151 million Good turnaround in previously We have unparalleled experience in providing these Business & Industry We are a world leading provider 5,000,001-10,000,000 36 0.1 256 13.3 a 60 basis point margin improvement.
contributed to 9% organic revenue 2006: 120 million represents a margin underperforming countries such services to people in a whole range of environments No-one understands food at work quite like we do, The Business & Industry sector has growth in the Education sector.
as France and the Netherlands.
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any been driven by innovation in our offer, Good growth in Levy, our Sports In Spain, like for like growth, driven We are becoming more established or cultural events, or in remote environments.
Our consumer focus drives Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0 Every day we serve literally delivering 4% like for like revenue & Leisure business.
by new offerings and an increase in in the Eastern European market, proven capability in each of these markets results the development and innovation in our food offers, growth.
Continued good progress with consumer numbers, together with which is growing well.
from our sector focus, with dedicated operating brands and service to deliver the optimum solution millions of people around the our business in Canada.
new business in the Healthcare and businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
from restaurants and caf style outlets to coffee bars world, whether it is to provide Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy.
Education sectors, have driven This in-depth understanding of the demands of and vending.
We also provide a selected range of organic revenue growth of 13%.
these markets and the needs of our customers support services that complement our foodservice them with a meal, a cup of drives our market-leading innovation, our operating offer.
This includes cleaning, grounds maintenance, coffee, a clean office or helping efficiency and ultimately the quality of the service our hospitality and reception services.
to keep the entire workspace Fine Dining around them working at its best.
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working United Kingdom Rest of the World with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to Market sectors and operating companies executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched Tengizchevroil TCO, a Chevron managed joint venture events and world famous venues.
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a leading in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support provider of executive hospitality, dining and business services at their Atyrau and Tengiz facilities after a Healthcare & Seniors support services to its prestigious blue-chip clients: competitive re-tendering process.
This is one of our One of the most demanding markets in which we including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our operate.
The very highest standards of food safety and London, law firms and leading organisations.
The move people providing a range of services, including full hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care consolidated our previous brand operations under one daily catering services and the full maintenance of strong identity and management structure.
Our new offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
for have made us a leader in this market.
Our offer is business goals reflect a commitment to innovation, broader than simply foodservice for patients, staff and visitors, and includes a range of complementary service, lifestyle and simplicity.
support services including services such as cleaning and housekeeping.
Percentage of Percentage of Revenue Revenue Group revenue Group revenue 2006: 1,882m 2006: 1,611m Education From primary schools to some of the worlds most 19% 16% renowned universities, we provide a nutritious, well- 2006: 18% 2006: 16% balanced diet to fuel the development of young minds 1,931m 1,622m and bodies.
3 3 Operating profit Operating profit Sports & Leisure Forward looking statements Index to the summary consolidated financial statements We have unparalleled experience in providing high 2006: 107m 2006: 47m This Review contains forward looking statements within quality foodservice for some of the worlds most Note Page prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as attractions and social events.
In addition we have Independent auditors statement 28 amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, 107m 64m the specialist in-house expertise and resources to as amended.
These statements are subject to a number of Consolidated income statement 29 provide a single source for the complete marketing Regional highlights The Education sector has stabilised Regional highlights Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could and management of corporate hospitality packages.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 30 Revenue in the UK was 1,931 million following a difficult period.
Another very strong year, delivering Dubai have seen good revenue and differ materially from those currently being anticipated as 2006: 1,882 million, growth of We have continued to reorganise the 64 million operating profit from margin growth.
Consolidated balance sheet 31 Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites reflected in such forward looking statements.
The terms 2% on an organic basis.
business to drive further efficiencies.
continuing operations 2006: Good revenue growth with some We provide vital workplace support for people working A solid result with, as expected, We expect a broadly similar 43 million on a constant currency margin improvement in Latin America.
Consolidated cash flow statement 32 expect, should be, will be, is likely to and similar in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in operating profits in line with last year.
performance in 2008. basis, an increase of 21 million.
Looking forward there remains expressions identify forward looking statements.
Factors the world from oil and gas to major construction sites Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 32 Largely completed the turnaround or Australia continues to deliver strong significant opportunity to further and remote mining locations.
Our technical and which may cause future outcomes to differ from those exit of poor performing contracts.
organic revenue growth driven develop our businesses in the 1 Segmental reporting 33 logistical competence, commitment to health and foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not by the ongoing buoyancy of the Rest of the World both in size and safety and ability to effectively mobilise contracts have extraction industries.
2 Discontinued operations 34 limited to: general economic conditions and business earned us an enviable reputation for providing fully Encouraging progress in Japan, where conditions in Compass Groups markets: exchange rate integrated food and support services for global clients 3 Exceptional items 36 the focus on driving efficiency and with workers around the world.
fluctuations: customers and clients acceptance of its restructuring the business has resulted 4 Earnings per share 37 in good margin improvement.
products and services: the actions of competitors: and Vending 5 Dividends 37 legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and we are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions See footnotes on page 1.
6 Reconciliation of movements in equity 38 In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing to our customers.
In North America this is through 7 Contingent liabilities 39 multi-sector solutions.
For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan.
Canteen, our specialist vending operation.
Business & Industry Fine Dining Healthcare & Seniors Education Sports & Leisure Defence, Offshore Vending North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World 41 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Group at a glance Our marketplace Regional review at a glance Our marketplace North America Continental Europe Our aim is to achieve market leadership Developing our people Our strategy focuses on the For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid in the sectors and countries that we have and valuing diversity Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy expansion of the senior-living market.
Business & Industry Fine Dining Healthcare & Seniors Education Sports & Leisure Defence, Offshore Vending North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World 01 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Our strong operating performance is being driven by concentrating on Client Consumer Cost of food Unit costs Above unit the five key profit drivers of MAP, sales and sales and overheads our Group-wide Management and marketing marketing Performance framework, which is Delivering profitable Driving growth in Buying the optimal Delivering the right Creating a simpler now embedded within our business.
growth from existing consumer volume quality and range level of service in organisational and new clients, and spending of food to meet the most efficient model, with and developing our through innovation the needs of our way, focusing on fewer layers of penetration in our in our offer, the customers at the labour productivity management and chosen markets.
right pricing and lowest cost, with and controlling less bureaucracy.
the most efficient labour and other distribution and in-unit costs.
2007 highlights Through the MAP process we have Group revenue Total operating profit transformed the performance of the business 5% organic revenue growth on a constant A 24% increase in operating profit on a constant 1,5 1,2 with good quality organic revenue growth, currency basis.
greater focus on like for like growth and cost efficiencies together delivering 101 million 10,268m 529m 9,768m of operating profit growth at constant currency and driving the operating margin 428m forward by 70 basis points.
Our focus on capital expenditure and working capital has resulted in a step change in the delivery of free cash flow, up 68% to 357 million.
2006 2007 2006 2007 Margin Basic earnings per share Free cash flow 1,6 4 A margin increase of 70 basis points.
An underlying earnings per share increase of 62%.
A step change in the delivery of free cash flow, up 68%.
5.1% 15.2p 357m 4.4% 9.4p 212m 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 5 The three main drivers of our 101 million of Organic revenue growth Return on capital employed operating profit growth this year have been: 2006: 7% 2006: 11.3% Net new business achieved through new 5% 12.5% clients, new services to existing clients and managing retention of existing business has delivered 30 million of profit.
Base estate growth resulting from like for Capital expenditure as a % of revenue Full year dividend like price and volume growth and the 2006: 1.9% 2006: 10.1p management of cost inflation has delivered 35 million of profit.
Reducing above unit costs by a net 1.9% 10.8p 36 million.
All figures shown relate to continuing operations.
Constant currency restates the prior year results to 2007 5.
Organic growth is calculated by adjusting for acquisitions More information on Compass Group can be found on average exchange rates.
excluding current year acquisitions and including a full year 2.
Includes share of profit of associates.
UK 3 million 2006: in respect of prior year acquisitions, disposals excluded our website: www.
1 million and North America 1 million 2006: 1 million.
from both years and exchange rate movements translating 3.
Excludes share of profit of associates.
the prior years at current year exchange rates and For our Annual Report, go to our Investor Centre at 4.
Underlying profit before tax excludes revaluation gains and compares the results against 2006. www.
losses on swaps and hedging instruments hedge 6.
Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit accounting ineffectiveness of 6 million 2006: 11 excluding share of profit of associates.
Underlying basic earnings per share excludes these You can also go to our website to register to receive items net of tax.
future Annual Reviews and Reports and other shareholder information electronically.
02 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Chairmans statement Delivering on our commitments Our performance reflects a clear, well-executed strategy, which is starting to deliver increased value to our shareholders.
The introduction of MAP, our Management and Performance framework, has given us a common language and agenda resulting in greater focus and visibility across the whole business.
We have delivered a step change in profit and free cash flow generation as new processes begin to embed throughout the organisation.
Looking ahead, we believe we are entering a new phase of sustainable value creation, with exciting opportunities to grow revenues, improve margins and generate significant cash flow.
I am delighted to report a year of outstanding progress against the commitments we have given to improve returns to shareholders.
The objective of the strategy we communicated last year is to grow our business in a disciplined way to deliver sustainable profit and growth.
This year represents an important first step in delivering this strategy.
We remain firmly focused on developing our core foodservice business, in which we see continued strong long-term growth opportunities in our chosen market sectors.
Alongside this we are developing a range of complementary support services, which we are progressively bringing to market, prioritising those sectors and countries where our ability to provide both food and support services will help us to develop our market.
In particular, we see a growing number of international clients who are looking for a service partner such as us who can deliver these services to consistently high standards, globally.
The successful implementation of MAP has given us the framework to manage the Sir Roy Gardner business with the intensity necessary to drive Chairman improved performance.
MAP is now wellestablished in the businesses.
In the coming year we will be taking further steps to embed MAP even deeper into the organisation.
Our Group Chief Executive, Richard Cousins, in his first full year in the role, has put in place a strong leadership team to lead the continued development and implementation of our strategy, bringing in competencies in areas such as marketing and international clients to support the delivery of our objectives and to help drive value from the combined strength of our global Group.
03 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Focus on our contract Our strategy Full year dividend foodservice business We have a very clear and focused strategy, a significant market opportunity and a tight operating model with much improved 10.8p 7% controls and governance.
Compass Group Grow our support services business share price performance vs FTSE 100 Index 2007 Pence 400 Compass Group FTSE 100 Index 375 Committed to giving 350 our customers 325 superior levels 300 of service 275 250 29 09 29 11 29 01 29 03 29 05 30 07 28 09 Focus on driving 2006 2006 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 cost efficiencies The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the Compass Group share price on 29 September 2006 268.25 pence I have continued the programme I initiated A further 45 million of the Selecta proceeds Our people to improve corporate governance and have been contributed to Compass UK On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank controls.
Building on the progress we have closed defined benefit pension plans, taking all of our people around the world for their already made, our aim this year has been the total amount of special contributions commitment and efforts in achieving these reviewing and re-communicating Group to these plans over the past 15 months to results and for the excellent service they policies and practices, with processes and 325 million, significantly reducing the deliver daily: service that continues to earn training to ensure that these are received pension deficit in these schemes.
the loyalty of our clients and consumers and and understood.
reinforces our position as a leader in our The balance of the proceeds has been used chosen markets.
Over the last year we have further reviewed to further reduce net debt.
our corporate social responsibility strategy Outlook CSR to ensure that we are addressing the Management The results that we have reported for 2007 On becoming Chairman I began the process broader social and environmental issues in demonstrate that we have the right strategy, the way that we run our business.
This of reinvigorating the Board to achieve the the right leadership and, through MAP, the commitment is very much in evidence in right blend of expertise, experience and right focus to capitalise on the considerable our day-to-day operations, forming a firm strong independent scrutiny to guide the opportunities that exist in our chosen markets.
foundation to build on as we strive to decisions of the Board over managing and I believe that these results and the actions continuously improve our CSR journey.
growing the business in the best interests of we are taking give us a solid foundation on our shareholders.
which to base sustainable performance We have made good progress in the last year improvements and deliver increasing value and, going forward, I will continue to take This has been achieved through an orderly to our shareholders.
the necessary steps to ensure that we set the succession plan and without compromising highest standards for corporate governance the effectiveness of the Board and its and responsible business practice.
Returns to shareholders Peter Blackburn, Peter Cawdron and Val The Board is proposing a final dividend Gooding have all stepped down from the of 7.2 pence per share for payment in Board in the last year and I would like to Sir Roy Gardner March 2008.
This brings our full year thank each of them for the contribution Chairman dividend to 10.8 pence, a year on year they have made to the Group.
I am delighted that Sir Ian Robinson, Tim In July this year we completed the sale of Parker, Sir James Crosby and Susan Murray Selecta, the European vending business, joined the Board as non-executive directors for 772 million before transaction costs.
during the last 12 months, with Sir James Crosby becoming the senior independent Of these proceeds we are using 500 million non-executive director.
Together with my to extend our share buy-back programme.
other colleagues on the Board, I look forward This is in addition to the return of to our new directors continued contribution 500 million to shareholders following to the deliberations of the Board.
the sale of SSP in 2006, taking the total share buy-back programme to 1 billion.
As of In June we appointed Mark White as the 30 September 2007 we had bought back shares Groups General Counsel and Company for cancellation to the value of 720 million.
Secretary, a new role within the Group.
Mark, a qualified solicitor, has extensive international legal and business experience and joined us from Wolseley plc.
04 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Chief Executives statement Driving performance Through the MAP process we have delivered good quality organic revenue growth, driven the operating margin forward and significantly increased operating profit.
We have achieved this through better quality new business and retention, a greater focus on like for like growth and improved cost efficiencies.
Our focus on capital expenditure and working capital has resulted in a step change in the delivery of free cash flow.
Over the last 18 months we have tightened our strategy, simplified the business to focus on our core food and support services offer by selling non-core businesses and have considerably reduced our risk profile by exiting high risk or volatile businesses.
Our strong operating performance is being driven by concentrating on the five key profit drivers of MAP, our operating framework, which is now embedded within our business.
Each MAP component has its own set of key performance indicators.
Performance is reviewed with country management teams both monthly and in our detailed business reviews.
Together these give greater visibility of country performance, enable us to respond more quickly to opportunities and changes in our markets and ensure that our businesses are constantly focused on profitable organic growth.
MAP has enabled us to deliver 101 million of constant currency operating profit growth through: 30 million of net new business growth driven by better quality new business and retention Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive MAP 1 Client sales and marketing: achieved through better targeted businesses, tighter contracts and sharper contract evaluation.
Included among our new business wins: Asda in the UK: The House of Representatives, Dell and DreamWorks in the US: Continental in Germany: and Shell across Europe.
35 million of base estate profit growth driven by like for like revenue growth and cost efficiencies Driving like for like revenue growth: MAP 1 Client sales and marketing: addresses driving like for like revenue through client pricing strategies and growing client volumes, for example: through additional services, such as: cleaning, portering, reception and concierge.
05 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Map Driving profitable growth Client sales New business and marketing Market development, good quality new business Consumer sales and marketing Like for like price and volume growth more Base estate services, retention, and innovative offers Cost of food Cost efficiencies purchasing, menu planning, supply chain and in-unit processes Labour productivity, labour and in-unit cost control Unit costs Above unit overheads Simplified organisation, control of discretionary spend Above unit overheads MAP 2 Consumer sales and marketing: Food price inflation is not a new phenomenon.
We now have greater focuses on developing our retail philosophy in We have managed it well for many years and management strength at both country order to increase participation and spend per continue to do so, but now, through the MAP and head office level and this new global head, for example: extending our offer to framework, with greater intensity.
The specific leadership team has been central to driving include breakfast and Grab & Go concepts.
actions we are taking to address food inflation the improved performance.
fall into three categories: purchasing and Strategy and the future Driving cost efficiencies: supply chain efficiencies: unit cost efficiencies including menu re-engineering: client and Looking back over the achievements of the MAP 3 Cost of food: addresses cost consumer price increases.
last 18 months, strategically, we have defined efficiencies through a systematic approach to a clearer focused strategy and launched MAP.
menu planning, purchasing and supply chain, So, in conclusion, food price inflation is well We have made good progress in developing and unit processes.
understood and being acted upon.
Crucially, our support services business and we have despite the inflation we have seen this year, simplified the business by exiting non-core MAP 4 Unit costs: we spend nearly 5.5 we have been able to hold our gross margins businesses such as SSP, Selecta, Hotels and billion per year on unit costs and we have been steady through the combination of cost other non-core assets.
We have also reduced managing this through: labour productivity efficiencies and price increases.
the number of countries in which we operate and scheduling: control of labour costs: and and considerably reduced our risk profile.
Processes and people Our new monthly reporting processes and We believe we now have a focused and 36 million of above unit overhead regular business reviews with country transparent business model which will savings after allowing for inflation management teams ensure that we are all generate significant opportunities to grow constantly focused on the management and the top line organically, improve margins MAP 5 Above unit overheads: we spend performance of the five MAP value drivers.
and grow profitability and generate significant 0.8 billion on above unit overheads per year.
Our country managing directors are now fully cash flow.
We believe we are entering a new The savings have been achieved through: empowered to run their businesses, operating phase of sustainable value creation.
management reorganisation: consolidated within a clearly defined MAP operating back office functions: change management framework.
There will be no change in our core processes: and tightened control of strategy as we enter the next phase of our discretionary spend.
The new measures have also led to tighter development.
We remain very excited by discipline and sounder governance.
Approval the prospects for growth with significant Food cost inflation processes have been strengthened and outsourcing potential in our core food and We spend around 3.5 billion a year on food.
We estimate that We estimate that for last year we have seen Corporate Responsibility Committee, a outsourcing growth in the foodservice market about a one percentage point increase in the subcommittee of the Board, continues valued at 150 billion is at least 5% per rate of inflation.
To put this into context each to oversee all aspects of health and food annum.
The support services market is larger one percentage point of food cost inflation safety, environmental impacts, governance than the foodservices market and growing adds about 35 million to the total cost base and its reporting.
Operationally we will stay of 9.7 billion.
This is before taking into focused on MAP and embed it deeper into account that around one third of our Over the past 18 months we have made the organisation.
The drive for like for like contracts are cost plus.
We believe that our significant management changes at a Board, growth and increased operational efficiencies basket of goods is currently experiencing Executive Committee, Group head office and will also continue.
From this we will expect market increases of some 4% to 5%.
We have put in place further significant cash flow generation.
succession planning and are focusing on In terms of its impact, most of the management development to ensure that geographies in which we operate and most we are developing our leadership strength food categories have seen some inflation.
However, the larger double digit inflationary increases have been in dairy, rice and pasta.
The introduction of MAP and the removal Richard Cousins Together these categories account for only of divisional management structures have Group Chief Executive about 10% of the Groups spend on food.
resulted in greater transparency across 28 November 2007 06 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Chief Executives statement continued In response to our clients needs we have developed a strong capability in a selected range of support services that complement our core foodservice offer.
MAP 1 Client sales and marketing Growing our markets Driving like for like revenue We continue to see growth in our core The size and depth of our client base and the MAP 1 focuses on delivering contract foodservice market.
We see exciting loyalty of our clients reflect the quality and profitable growth from existing growth in every sector, especially Healthcare scope of the services we provide, and we are and new clients and developing and Education, driven by innovations such proud to count organisations that are leaders as Steamplicity, and in a growing Sports in their markets as our clients.
our penetration in our chosen & Leisure market where we have had markets.
great success in winning contracts for The focus over the last 12 months and going prestigious events and major venues, such forward is to improve the discipline with as The O2 in London, the largest sports and which we manage our existing client entertainment complex in Europe, Kruger relationships and improve the performance National Park in South Africa and the of our contract base.
To achieve this we have Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre focused on the following areas: ADNEC in the United Arab Emirates.
Ensuring that we have the right contract Our country MAP plans detail our approach terms in place that accurately reflect to developing each market.
Our global the services we are being paid to provide sector forums, supported by our new market and that we have the appropriate review development function, provide the means processes and controls in place to monitor to identify and respond to emerging market service levels, client satisfaction and trends, facilitate the rapid transfer of price indexation, the latter being vitally best practices from one part of the Group important in managing through International clients management Through our international clients programme we to another and drive innovation in our inflationary cost increases: are developing closer relationships with multinational client offer.
Extending the services we provide, organisations.
They recognise that we have the for example, adding vending or cleaning geographical coverage and capability to deliver Last year we identified the support services to a foodservice-only site, or increasing the outsourced food and support services to the same world-class standards, globally and enable them to market as an attractive opportunity for a number of sites we support, and driving achieve their own global objectives.
number of reasons: like for like volume and average spend increases in our existing operations: and We have an existing capability to build Proactively reviewing contracts where the on, with some industry leading expertise financial and operational performance in certain services and sectors: does not meet expectations and taking the It enables us to respond to an increasing opportunity to renegotiate these to put number of clients who are looking to them on the right basis going forward.
bundle services, including foodservice: and It complements the service and health More disciplined new business and safety ethos that has gained us As we develop our core markets it is vital that Steamplicity market-leading innovation our reputation for excellence in the we maintain a healthy new business pipeline, Market-leading innovations like Steamplicity are foodservice market.
supported by the necessary disciplines to helping us to open up new segments of our core ensure that we take on the right business market sectors.
Already being enjoyed by consumers Our strategy is to develop the support services on the right terms.
We have been putting in in the UK and Europe, Steamplicity, uses patented valve technology to healthily steam-cook meals within market in a disciplined way by focusing on place across all our businesses clear guidelines minutes, retaining nutritional content and promoting selected services, sectors and countries.
and training for our sales teams on our key wellness and vitality.
Ideal for providing hot meals contract terms.
This is supported by a robust cooked to order for hospital patients, schools and environments where traditional kitchen space To give us real competitive advantage in approvals process for new business bids at a is often restricted.
this market we have developed the Compass country level and, dependent on the scale Service Framework, using the very best of the opportunity or the level of capital knowledge that we can find in the world to investment required, review and approval ensure that we can deliver the world-class, at a Group level.
consistent capability that clients demand.
07 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Our consumer focus is driving continued innovation in our brands and foodservice offers.
MAP 2 Consumer sales and marketing Understanding consumer trends Improved pricing management to drive innovation In an increasingly retail market we are MAP 2 reflects the importance Whilst we may be feeding people either in taking a more thorough approach to pricing of having the right offers and their workplace, at college or in a hospital and are deploying pricing tools and processes retail skills to drive growth in restaurant, their demand for quality, choice to enable our managers to undertake and value are equally as discerning as you local market basket benchmarking which, consumer volume and spending.
would find on the high street.
Our focus on combined with national benchmarking, understanding consumer needs and future enables a regular, fact-based pricing review trends is driving the development and with our clients.
For example, in our UK innovation in our food offers, brands and business our units receive a regular Price services.
In Healthcare, for example, we have Watch update providing information, based led the market with the introduction of on high-street benchmarking research.
patient personalised meal ordering, such as our Catering to You service, which provides Driving volume and spend greater flexibility, choice and individual A greater understanding of our consumers dietary control.
Developed in the USA, enables us to more effectively target offers that Catering to You has already successfully entice consumers into more repeat visits and transferred to other countries.
encourage them to spend more per visit.
To achieve this we are developing a more retailHealth, wellbeing and sustainability are focused approach to promotions, selling skills important topics that matter to our consumers and merchandising.
In our Business & in every sector.
As a global foodservice Industry sector this might mean extending Selling more beverages In the Czech Republic we have doubled like for like company we fully understand the the use of the restaurant through different beverage sales in our 350 Business & Industry units.
responsibility we have in helping consumers day-part offers, for example, broadening Through understanding consumer behaviours make informed choices about diet and out from a lunch time only service to include we identified a significant opportunity to capture nutrition.
Our in-house dieticians work with breakfast.
In Germany, in response to incremental beverage sales by focusing on hydrating people better in the workplace.
Key initiatives were our culinary, product development and consumer research we have developed a based around expanding day-parts, increasing variety purchasing teams to create menu programmes Grab and Go offer as an additional service and choice and educating the consumer on the that combine menu planning, labelling and which is now generating a like for like volume importance of hydration.
Solutions were to increase promotion, and educational training for our increase of 4%.
range and package types, introduce larger pack sizes, install incremental equipment coolers and racks, people to deliver food choices that are safe, improve merchandising and place hydration messages nutritious and balanced, and suit the lifestyle Controlling the cash at point of sale.
and tastes of our consumers.
For example, in Learning from the retail sector, at the same our US Education business, Eat, Learn, Live time as driving increased sales, we have Improved pricing through Value Planning is a market leading commitment to the health focused on ensuring that we are not losing this 2,000 of our operating units in the USA are using and wellbeing of children and students from cash to poor cash handling disciplines, stock the Value Plan, a simple but highly effective price primary schools to college.
This holistic shrinkage or even theft.
The experience of management and benchmarking tool which provides the framework for setting pricing strategies.
approach drives innovations such as Brake for a considerable number of trial sites for our Through the Value Plan we compare unit pricing Breakfast and Morning Editions providing Profit Protection programme in the UK information against national and local market basket a healthier start to the day.
In addition we has shown that a focus on this area putting benchmarks and inflation forecasts, to set our target help educate students to recognise and training and processes in place, supported price points for each of our major categories.
This provides our Unit Managers with credible data to choose healthier options, provide a nutrition by the right technology can lead to sales develop their own unit pricing plan and set regular and physical activity for the curriculum increases of up to 7%, cash reconciliation pricing reviews with our clients.
Performance is Healthsmart and support health related improvements of up to 3% and a significant now being tracked through weekly owners reports from each unit, comparing the actual price achieved in-classroom and outreach programmes.
against our target price for the top selling categories.
Recently developed supporting tools such as mapping the servery and station profitability enable managers to analyse the performance of individual areas of the restaurant.
The impact of the Value Plan is evidenced in like for like sales growth of 5% and an increase of up to 10% in average spend per transaction.
08 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Chief Executives statement continued We are addressing food cost efficiencies through a systematic approach to menu planning, purchasing and in-unit processes.
85:10:5 provides the right levels of control MAP 3 Cost of food Managing food cost inflation We have held our cost of sales flat throughout and compliance combined with the flexibility We spend over 3.5 billion a a year in which we have seen food cost to meet individual contract or service specific year on food alone.
Our MAP 3 inflation affect most food categories in most needs.
At the same time we are better objective is to buy the optimal of the countries in which we operate.
The leveraging our purchasing volumes by drivers of inflationary pressures stem from moving to a smaller group of suppliers and quality and range of food and growth in demand, such as population and a narrower product range, as we have done products to meet the needs of economic growth, changes in eating habits in countries like Germany where we have our customers at the lowest and the increased use of staple crops for consolidated 80% of our purchasing volume cost, whilst having the most bio-fuels, combined with pressure on the with 11 suppliers and decreased the number supply side brought about by reduced of products from 40,000 to 7,000. efficient distribution and harvests, often caused by extreme weather, in-unit production.
or the impact of food scares.
We are also seeing significant benefits in compliance, cost control and forecasting Our ability to manage these inflationary through more effective menu planning.
pressures is a result of: In Brazil, for example, our units have online access to a centralised menu planning The work we have done to include food database and have reduced average meal cost indexation in our contracts, giving costs by up to 10%.
us the contractual right to review pricing Reducing in-unit production costs with our clients: Re-engineering our menus to switch food Another focus area under MAP 3 is reducing Trim Trax reducing wastage items in response to forecast shortages the cost of in-unit meal production.
A key The Trim Trax programme has been developed in the and cost increases: and component of this is reducing food waste, US Business & Industry sector to help reduce in-unit food wastage, focusing on the most frequent reasons Continuing to drive greater purchasing targeting wastage in the production process we have identified for production loss overproduction, efficiencies through supplier rationalisation itself, overproduction or incorrectly ordered out-of-date inventory and wastage in the food and compliance.
Programmes such as preparation itself.
The programme provides some Trim Trax, which has been trialled in the very simple, very visible ways to reinforce the message about reducing waste for our in-unit teams.
One simple, Leveraging our scale US Business & Industry and Education but effective way is giving each member of the food Our approach to purchasing reflects the need sectors, are providing simple, high impact production team their own individual Trim Trax food to have the right supplier relationships and tools to raise awareness of the issue of waste bin, which has the volume of waste recorded, categorised and assigned a value each day.
Results are partnerships in place at a local, regional, wastage with our in-unit teams and embed then tracked, with the team identifying actions to reduce national and international level.
We now the disciplines necessary to reduce it.
wastage and recognition going to the best performers.
have country purchasing teams in place to drive purchasing efficiencies in support of individual country business plans.
For example, in the UK we have a programme called 85:10:5, the purpose of which has been to move all of our purchasing spend into the following categories: 85% spend or greater through approved suppliers: Reducing supply chain costs Our newly created European Consolidation Centre 10% spend or less through suppliers of in Southern Spain has reduced supply chain costs unique products or services: and by having fresh produce delivered directly to this facility 5% spend or less through suppliers who from our own nominated growers, which we then quality meet specific, local contract requirements.
assure and consolidate for dispatch to our distributors in 12 European countries.
By consolidating our spend and buying at source we have significantly improved our buying price, quality and traceability, reduced distribution costs, and reduced the number of lorries on the road.
We received the UK Institute of Grocery Distributions 2007 Food Industry Award for Supply Chain Excellence in recognition of our fresh produce buying strategy.
09 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Improving efficiency and costs in our units is a real opportunity that we are starting to address.
MAP 4 Unit costs Improving labour productivity Effectively managing labour and Our objective is always to deliver the right ancillary costs MAP 4 focuses on driving level of service in the most efficient way Through MAP we are also exercising better cost efficiencies from our possible, by ensuring that we have the right control over other labour costs such as 5.5 billion of unit labour and number of trained people, performing the absenteeism, overtime and third party right activities in the right place at the right agency spend.
time, and have the flexibility to absorb increases in volume.
We have put in place processes and disciplines to improve our management of salary and With the focus on labour productivity benefit costs and control labour cost inflation.
through MAP we have been deploying tools These include local sector benchmarking, and processes across our business to improve a robust process for managing national or our labour optimisation.
These are scalable sector wage agreements and reviewing to suit the differing sizes of our operations benefits to ensure that those we provide and range from simple unit-based labour are competitive with local market practices, scheduling tools that track and forecast labour are valued by our people and that, where hours against sales, through to intensive we use external providers for benefits such on-site reviews by productivity specialists as health insurance, we are leveraging our in our major sites.
These programmes, such scale effectively.
as Performance Plus in our US Healthcare business, involve detailed time and motion Along with food costs, we are now including studies to analyse labour scheduling and labour costs as part of our pricing indexation Improving efficiency Good progress is being made to further reduce costs efficiency in all areas of the operation, from models, which drive our pricing strategy, in the UK business.
Unit labour scheduling is now food production to mapping front of house product tariffs and which we use in our receiving intensive focus, following the creation of a service needs against consumer footfall.
This team is directly This gives a clear picture of the optimal supporting our operations in embedding processes and disciplines to more effectively manage labour labour hour requirements on a unit level, Reducing unit overheads scheduling, temporary labour, the management of allowing us to adjust rostering and employee Unit overheads are all the remaining payroll, sickness and holiday in our units and the better hours accordingly.
non-food and non-labour costs associated usage of reporting tools.
Integral to this is the roll-out of a with managing our units such as uniforms, communication and training programme for all our Unit Managers focusing attention on getting the right people With the work that we have been doing linen, crockery, laundry cleaning, utilities in the right place at the right time in order to maximise in this area we continue to deepen our and occupancy costs where we have them.
sales and improve customer service and productivity.
understanding of the key drivers of Through good local initiatives and more productivity and how to measure, report thorough analysis and measurement we and manage it more effectively.
have made solid progress in the last year, resulting in a reduction in unit overheads as a percentage of revenue, which we aim to continue.
Effective labour cost management Based on the work done in Australia we have developed tools which are now being used as a global template to more effectively measure and cost labour turnover and the use of agency staff at a country and operating unit level, identifying previous hidden labour costs.
In Australia we have seen a 1.6% reduction in direct labour costs as a result of accurate KPI measurement and the implementation of tailored retention strategies, improved absence management and reduction in agency spend.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Chief Executives statement continued We are improving overhead efficiency by simplifying the way we run the business and tighter control of discretionary spend.
MAP 5 Above unit overheads Simplifying management structures In developing countries or those where We have made significant inroads in reducing we dont have density we have developed As a Group we have 800 duplicate layers of management and putting successful zone management structures, million of above unit costs in place simpler, affordable structures with a single management team overseeing associated with managing that give greater transparency through a cluster of countries within a specific region, the business and improve the speed of for example, Central and Eastern Europe, the business.
our Central Asia, Middle East and Africa on how we create a simpler CAMEA remote site businesses and the organisational model with To achieve this we have dismantled the Nordic region.
fewer layers of management previous divisional structure creating a clear Consolidated back office functions line of sight between the businesses and and less bureaucracy.
This is supported by our new As part of reducing overlap and duplication Group financial and non-financial reporting we have consolidated common back office framework which, combined with regular functions, retaining separate functions only business reviews of country MAP plans, where they are genuinely sector specific.
gives us greater visibility and understanding The UK and the USA are good examples of the underlying performance of each of where we have created a more streamlined, business and makes us better placed to shared services model for HR, reducing cost respond to opportunities and risks.
and improving service to our front-line teams.
The management teams in our countries are empowered to run and develop their HR shared services To reduce overlap and duplication in its HR support businesses within a light, non-bureaucratic functions our US business has created a central Human Group framework.
This relies on a culture Resources Service Centre, as a single point of contact of openness, honesty and transparency, on HR related issues for over 85,000 employees.
supported by good communication and the This has reduced HR overhead costs by 5% and led to speedier and more effective issue resolution, disciplines and good governance expected reduced management intervention and improved of a major international group.
We have taken a similar approach within the countries themselves, focusing first on businesses like France, Japan and the Netherlands, and reorganised how we manage the business to create much leaner, more effective structures.
11 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary business review Revenue Finance cost The Group achieved 5% organic Overall, organic revenue growth was 5%, Underlying net finance cost, excluding revenue growth in 2007 with excellent comprising new business of 8%, retention revaluation gains and losses on swaps and performances in the North America of around 94%, about one percentage point hedging instruments hedge accounting and the Rest of the World regions, a lower than in previous years due to the work ineffectiveness, was 87 million we have been doing to address loss-making 2006: 145 million.
With the full year stronger performance in Continental contracts, and like for like growth of just benefit of the Selecta disposal proceeds Europe and continuing difficult under 3%.
The significant strengthening going forward, we expect the 2008 underlying trading in the UK.
The MAP of Sterling, in particular against the US finance charge to be around 70 million.
programme and resulting actions Dollar, impacted revenues by 5%, resulting in reported revenues remaining flat.
Profit before tax have led to improvements in financial Organic growth is calculated by adjusting Profit before tax from continuing operations performance, in particular, strong for acquisitions excluding current year was 436 million 2006: 323 million.
free cash flow generation, and good acquisitions and including a full year in progress has been made in the year respect of prior year acquisitions, disposals On an underlying basis, excluding excluded from both years and exchange revaluation gains and losses on swaps and towards the achievement of the rate movements translating the prior year at hedging instruments hedge accounting Groups 2006 2008 targets to current year exchange rates, and compares ineffectiveness, profit before tax from increase ROCE by 100 basis points the results against 2006. continuing operations increased by 42% and to deliver 800 850 million to 442 million 2006: 312 million.
Operating profit of free cash flow over the period.
Operating profit from continuing operations, Income tax expense including associates, was 529 million On an underlying basis, excluding revaluation 2006: 457 million, an increase of 16% gains and losses on swaps and hedging Group trading review on a reported basis.
The operating profit instruments hedge accounting ineffectiveness, The Groups financial summary for the year increased by 101 million on a constant the tax charge from continuing operations and ended 30 September 2007 is set out below.
This represents before exceptional items was 126 million a 70 basis point improvement in margin.
2006: 101 million, an effective tax rate of Financial summary 29% 2006: 32%.
Against the background For the year ended of reducing corporate tax rates in a number 30 September 2007 2006 Increase of territories, we now expect the Groups Continuing operations effective tax rate to average out at around Revenue the 29% level for the short-term.
1 constant currency 10,268m 9,768m 5.1% reported 10,268m 10,267m 2 Operating profit 1 constant currency 529m 428m 23.6% reported 529m 457m 15.8% 6 Operating margin 5.1% 4.4% 70bps Profit before tax 4 underlying 442m 312m 41.7% reported 436m 323m 35.0% Free cash flow 357m 212m 68.4% Basic earnings per share 4 underlying 15.2p 9.4p 61.7% 5 reported 15.0p 9.7p 54.6% Andrew Martin Total Group including discontinued operations Group Finance Director Basic earnings per share 25.6p 13.3p 92.5% Total dividend per ordinary share 10.8p 10.1p 6.9% 1.
Constant currency restates the prior year results to 2007 average exchange rates.
Underlying profit before tax excludes revaluation gains and losses on swaps and hedging instruments hedge accounting ineffectiveness of 6 million 2006: 11 million.
Underlying basic earnings per share excludes these items net of tax.
Reported basic earnings per share before exceptional items.
Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit excluding share of profit of associates.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary business review continued Discontinued operations continue to expect the level of gross capital return on capital employed for the continuing On 2 July 2007, the Group completed the sale expenditure to remain at around 2% of business would have been 6.5% 2006: 5.8%.
of its European vending business, Selecta, for a revenue going forward.
Proceeds from the consideration of 772 million on a debt and sale of assets were 22 million and we would Financial targets cash free basis.
The Group has also completed expect this to be around 12 million lower The Groups three year targets for the the sale and closure of a number of other in 2008. continuing business for 2006 to 2008 remain small businesses during the year as part of unchanged at: its exit from the travel concessions business.
We have seen a step change in the The 2006 revenue and operating profits of management of working capital.
There has 100 basis points improvement in ROCE: and all of these businesses closed in the year were been a focus in all areas, but we have achieved free cash flow from continuing operations 548 million and 51 million respectively.
an overall 38 million working capital inflow of 800 million to 850 million.
The results of these businesses are treated in the year.
We believe there are further as discontinued operations and are therefore improvements possible and expect to achieve Pensions excluded from the results of continuing an average sustainable inflow of 20 to 30 The Group has continued to review and operations in 2007.
The 2006 results have million a year for the foreseeable future, but monitor its pension obligations throughout been restated on a consistent basis.
with better improvement in the next couple the year working closely with the Trustees and of years.
The cash tax rate for the year was members of schemes around the Group to The profit after tax from discontinued operations 26% 2006: 30%, based on underlying profit ensure proper prudent assumptions are used was 212 million 2006: 33 million.
before tax for the continuing operations, and and adequate provision is made.
we continue to expect the cash tax rate to Basic earnings per share average out at the mid to high 20s level over Particularly good progress has been made in Basic earnings per share were 25.6 pence the short-term.
respect of the Groups UK defined benefit 2006: 13.3 pence.
Excluding the results pension schemes where a further 45 million of discontinued operations and exceptional The net interest outflow of 127 million special contribution was paid in during the items, basic earnings per share on an 2006: 174 million continues to reflect the year following completion of the sale of the underlying basis, excluding revaluation gains impact of the 2004 swap monetisation, which Selecta vending operation.
This follows special and losses on swaps and hedging instruments will be substantially unwound by the end contributions in 2006 totalling 280 million to hedge accounting ineffectiveness, were of 2009. the UK defined benefit schemes following the 15.2 pence 2006: 9.4 pence.
sale of the SSP travel concessions business and Acquisition payments the Strand Palace Hotel.
Attributable Basic earnings The acquisition of the remaining 5% Profit per share interest in Onama, our Italian business, was In the UK defined benefit pension schemes we 2007 2006 2007 2006 Change completed in December 2006 for 7 million.
have again increased our longevity assumptions m m Pence Pence % A further 17 million was spent on deferred so that, for example, a female non-pensioner is Reported 515 285 25.6 13.3 92.5 Discontinued consideration relating to prior year acquisitions now assumed to survive 24.7 years following operations and and 7 million on new acquisitions.
The Groups total exceptional items 212 77 10.6 3.6 Hedge accounting pension deficit was reduced significantly in ineffectiveness Disposal proceeds the year, despite the adoption of the more net of tax 4 7 0.2 0.3 The sale of the European vending business, prudent assumptions, to 162 million Underlying 307 201 15.2 9.4 61.7 Selecta, was completed in July 2007 for 2006: 282 million.
The deficit would have gross consideration of 772 million, reduced to only 70 million if the surplus on Dividends 725 million net of transaction costs certain schemes had been fully recognised.
A final dividend of 7.2 pence per share will and completion accounting adjustments.
IFRIC 14 only permits the recognition of a be proposed to be paid on 3 March 2008 A further 37 million of deferred pension fund surplus where a company can to shareholders on the register on consideration relating to prior year disposals clearly demonstrate that it can access the 1 February 2008 and will result in a total was received in the year and 56 million surplus through, for example, reduced future dividend for the year of 10.8 pence per share was received from the disposal of other contributions.
The Group has taken the 2006: 10.1 pence per share, a year on year operations in the year.
prudent view that it will not be able to access increase of 7%.
Dividend cover for 2007 these surpluses, totalling 92 million, in the was 2.5 times reported earnings.
On an Return on capital employed foreseeable future.
underlying basis the dividend was covered Return on capital employed ROCE was 1.5 times on an earnings basis and 1.7 times 12.5% 2006: 11.3% based on the continuing The total pensions charge for defined on a free cash basis.
business before exceptional items, excluding contribution schemes in the year was the Groups minority partners share of total 36 million 2006: 33 million and 22 million Free cash flow operating profit, net of tax at 30% and using 2006: 35 million for defined benefit Free cash flow from the continuing business an average capital employed for the year of schemes.
Of the defined benefit scheme costs, totalled 357 million 2006: 212 million.
2,914 million 2006: 2,751 million 2 million 2006: 11 million was charged to The major factors contributing to the calculated from the IFRS balance sheet.
increase were: 70 million increase in operating profit before associates, 56 million Under UK GAAP, included within average Gearing improvement in working capital and 47 capital employed was goodwill previously The ratio of net debt to market capitalisation million lower net interest payments, offset in written off to reserves, now extinguished of 5,820 million as at 30 September 2007 part by 24 million higher net tax payments.
under IFRS, and goodwill amortised prior was 13% 2006: 19%.
to 30 September 2004, the date at which the Gross capital expenditure of 192 million net book value of goodwill was frozen under 2006: 198 million, including amounts IFRS.
Including these adjustments, average purchased by finance lease of 15 million capital employed for the year for the 2006: 15 million, represents 1.9% of continuing businesses would have been revenue 2006: 1.9% of revenue.
We 5,899 million 2006: 5,736 million and 13 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Financial instruments Liquidity risk Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated The Group continues to manage its interest The Group finances its borrowings from at the average rate of exchange for the year.
rate and foreign currency exposure in a number of sources including banks, This results in differences in the Sterling accordance with the policies set out below.
the public markets and the US private value of currency earnings from year to year.
The table below sets out the exchange rates The Groups financial instruments comprise used for major currencies for translating the cash, borrowings, trade receivables and The maturity profile of the Groups principal 2007 and 2006 income statements and payables that are used to finance the Groups borrowings at 30 September 2007 shows the balance sheets.
The Group also uses derivatives, average period to maturity is 4.1 years.
The Average rate Closing rate principally interest rate and cross currency Groups undrawn committed bank facilities Currency 2007 2006 2007 2006 swaps and forward currency contracts, to at 30 September 2007 were 630 million.
Australian Dollar 2.44 2.41 2.30 2.53 manage interest rate and currency risks arising Brazilian Real 4.02 3.97 3.75 4.22 from the Groups operations.
The Group does Maturity profile of principal borrowings Canadian Dollar 2.19 2.06 2.02 2.13 Euro 1.48 1.46 1.43 1.48 not trade in financial instruments.
The m Japanese Yen 234.05 209.07 234.33 220.54 Groups treasury policies are designed to 600 Norwegian Krone 11.98 11.66 11.05 12.47 mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest South African Rand 14.18 11.95 14.05 14.52 500 Swedish Krona 13.63 13.67 13.18 13.80 rates and exchange rates and to manage the Swiss Franc 2.40 2.29 2.38 2.34 400 Groups financial risks.
The Board approves US Dollar 1.97 1.80 2.04 1.87 any changes to the policies.
300 Interest rate risk 200 Principal risks and uncertainties As detailed above, the Group has effective The Board has a proactive approach to risk 100 borrowings in a number of currencies and management with the aim of protecting its its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, 0 employees and customers and safeguarding 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 it is not materially exposed to fluctuations the interests of the Company and its Bonds Bonds US$ Private Placement Bank in interest rates in its principal currencies.
The Group implements this policy either by borrowing fixed rate debt or by using Compass Group has specific policies in place Foreign currency risk interest rate swaps so that at least 80% of to ensure that risks are properly evaluated The Groups policy is to match as far as its projected net debt is fixed for one year, and managed at the appropriate level within possible its principal projected cash flows by reducing to 60% fixed for the second year the business.
A risk assessment exercise is currency to actual or effective borrowings in and 40% fixed for the third year.
carried out across the Group each year and the the same currency.
As currency earnings are outcome is reviewed by the Board bi-annually.
generated, they are used to service and repay Shareholder return debt in the same currency.
To implement this The market price of the Groups ordinary Outlined below is a summary of what the policy, forward currency contracts or cross shares at the close of the financial year was Board considers to be the key risks and currency swaps are taken out which, when 302 pence per share 2006: 268 pence.
uncertainties to successful delivery of its applied to the actual currency liabilities, corporate objectives and the activities the convert these to the required currency.
A Going concern Group undertakes to mitigate against these reconciliation of the 30 September 2007 After making enquiries, the directors have a key risks and uncertainties: actual currency liabilities to the effective reasonable expectation that the Group has currency borrowed is set out below.
adequate resources to continue in operational Description Mitigating activities existence for the foreseeable future.
For this Food safety The Group has in place policies, Forwards processes and training procedures and cross Effective reason, they continue to adopt the going to ensure compliance with its legal Gross currency currency of concern basis in preparing the financial obligations in relation to food hygiene borrowings swaps borrowings statements.
Currency m m m Client retention Our business model is structured so that Sterling 837 318 519 we are not reliant on one particular US Dollar 476 247 723 Conclusion sector, geography or client.
Euro 258 98 160 The successful disposal of the European Japanese Yen 16 59 75 People retention Training and development programmes, Other currencies 21 105 126 vending business, Selecta, and the exit from and motivation succession planning and performance management are designed to align Total 1,608 5 1,603 other remaining non-core assets has resulted rewards with our corporate objectives in a focused Group with a strong financial and to retain and motivate our position.
In the coming year the focus will best people.
Analysed as: continue to be on embedding MAP deeper Health, safety Our Health, Safety and Environment and environment Forum promotes policy, sets standards Noninto the organisation and on improving and monitors best practice and reports Current current business performance.
to the Corporate Social Responsibility liabilities liabilities Total Committee.
Liability m m m Purchasing To reduce risk we are focusing on Finance leases 14 36 50 traceability, clear specification of our Bank overdrafts 118 118 requirements to nominated suppliers Bank loans 19 17 36 and the improvement of purchasing Loan notes 380 380 compliance by Unit Managers.
Bonds 1,019 1,019 Litigation Though we do not operate in a litigious Total 151 1,452 1,603 Andrew Martin industry we have in place policies and Group Finance Director processes in our major countries to mitigate against third-party litigation.
28 November 2007 The borrowings in each currency give rise to Reputation The Groups zero tolerance based foreign exchange differences on translation Code of Ethics governs all aspects of into Sterling.
Where the borrowings are either our relationship with our stakeholders.
The Corporate Social Responsibility less than, or equate to, the net investment in Committee investigates any alleged overseas operations, these exchange rate breaches.
movements are treated as movements on reserves and recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense rather than in the income statement.
14 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Board of directors 1 3, 5 4, 6 01 Sir Roy Gardner 05 Sir James Crosby 09 Tim Parker Chairman Age 62 Senior independent non-executive Non-executive director Age 52 Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been director Age 51 Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is appointed to the Board as senior independent nona former Chief Executive of the AA and a former Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is executive director in October 2005.
He is a senior non-executive director of Alliance Boots Plc.
a non-executive director of ITV plc and is Deputy advisor to Credit Suisse, a non-executive director Chairman of the Financial Services Authority and 3, 4 of Willis Group Holdings Limited, President of the 10 Sir Ian Robinson is a former Chief Executive of HBOS plc.
He is a Energy Institute, Chairman of the Advisory Board of Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
Non-executive director Age 65 the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College London, Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
4, 6 a member of the International Advisory Board of the 06 Sven Kado He is Chairman of Ladbrokes plc formerly Hilton IESE Business School at the University of Navarra, Non-executive director Age 63 Group plc, a non-executive director of Scottish & President of Carers UK, Chairman of the British Newcastle plc and Siemens Holdings plc.
He is a Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is Olympics Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games former Chairman of Amey plc, Chief Executive of Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors Scottish Power plc and non-executive director of and was previously Chief Financial Officer of Nixdorf Network.
He is a former Chief Executive of Centrica ASDA plc and RMC plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Computer AG, Chief Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, Finance Academy of Engineers, a Fellow of the Institution of AG and senior advisor of Principal Finance Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director of Chemical Engineers and a member of the Takeover Group Nomura International.
GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc and Panel.
Sir Ian received his Knighthood in 2000 for a former non-executive director of Laporte plc.
2, 6, 7 services to the electricity industry.
07 Steve Lucas Sir Roy received his Knighthood in 2002 for services Non-executive director Age 53 to the gas and electricity industries.
2, 8, 9 11 Mark White Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Finance 2, 8 General Counsel and Company Secretary 02 Richard Cousins Director of National Grid plc having been previously Age 47 Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
Group Chief Executive Age 48 He is a chartered accountant and has held a number A solicitor who joined Compass Group on 1June 2007.
Appointed to the Board in May 2006 and appointed of senior finance positions with Shell International He is secretary to the Audit, Disclosure, General Group Chief Executive in June 2006.
He is a Petroleum Company and British Gas.
More recently Business, Nomination and Remuneration non-executive director of HBOS plc.
Richard was he was Treasurer at BG Group.
Mark was previously Group Company until December 2005 Chief Executive Officer of Secretary and Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company BPB plc, having held a number of positions with Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
08 Susan Murray that company since joining it in1990 and is a former Non-executive director Age 50 non-executive director of P&O.
Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate was with Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
Appointed to the Board in October 2007.
Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee non-executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a 3.
Member of the Nomination Committee 2, 8 non-executive director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL 03 Andrew Martin 4.
Member of the Audit Committee International PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets 5.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director Age 47 6.
Member of the Remuneration Committee PLC and Imperial Tobacco PLC.
She is a former Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
Chairman of the Audit Committee non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and 8.
Member of the Executive Committee Management PLC, a former Chief Executive of 9.
Trustee of the Compass Pension Scheme held senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Littlewoods Stores Limited and former Worldwide Granada Group PLC.
Following the disposal of President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First Company, part of Diageo plc.
Susan is a Fellow of Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director.
He is an the Royal Society of Arts and a council member of Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants the Advertising Standards Authority.
in England and Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
8 04 Gary Green Group Managing Director USA, Canada and Mexico Age 50 Appointed to the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the UK and became a UK director in 1992.
Gary relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North American business and in 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
He is a chartered accountant and in 2001 received an honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales University in the USA.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 15 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Acting responsibly Over the past year, we have further reviewed Passion for quality This successful programme will be further and continued to build on our Corporate We are passionate about delivering superior extended to include our buying colleagues Social Responsibility CSR strategy against food and service to our customers and take in North America early in 2008. the increasingly complex environment in pride in achieving this.
We look to replicate which we operate.
As a result, we have success, learn from mistakes and develop We operate a Speak Up programme so that renewed and strengthened our determination ideas, innovation and practices that will help our employees can raise, on a confidential that Compass should continue to improve its us improve and be leaders in our marketplace.
basis, any concerns about how we conduct our CSR journey.
Our whistle-blowing programme Win through teamwork is available to 99% of our employees and we We regard CSR as a sustainable approach We encourage individual ownership but will complete the roll-out to the balance of our to business that seeks benefits for all our work as a team.
We value the expertise, employees in the remaining countries during stakeholders, be they customers, employees, individuality and contribution of all our the course of 2008.
Ongoing work continues communities, the environment or the employees, working in support of each other to be undertaken throughout the business to Company and its shareholders.
We support and sharing good practice, in pursuit of raise employee awareness and regular reports sound CSR policies and practices for good shared goals.
are also provided to the Audit Committee business reasons.
Our commitment to of the Board.
CSR is not simply a response to increased Can-do market attention to this area, but acts as a We take a positive and commercially Corporate Responsibility Committee reinforcement of the way that our business aware can-do approach to the day-to-day We have established a Corporate operates on a daily basis.
The Board believes opportunities and challenges we face.
Responsibility Committee of the Board, to that the progressive integration of CSR across provide direction and guidance on all aspects the Group and the inclusion of broader social Responsibility of business practice and responsibility ensuring and environmental issues into our decision We take responsibility for our actions, consistent application everywhere we operate.
making will help us achieve our business goals individually and as a Group.
Everyday, The committees primary responsibilities and act as an essential building block for everywhere we look to make a positive include: overseeing health, safety and growth in shareholder value.
contribution to the health and wellbeing environmental practices, business conduct, the of our customers, the communities we positive promotion of employee engagement Corporate culture work in and the world we live in.
as well as diversity and community Our values investment.
The committee comprises Our vision is detailed on the inside front cover Code of ethics Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Richard of the Annual Review.
Our strong set of The Compass Code of Ethics sets out our Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas, values is key to achieving this: defining what, social, ethical and environmental commitment Jane Kingston Group Human Resources collectively, we believe in and the basis of towards each of our stakeholders and the Director, and Mark White.
everything we do: communities in which we operate.
The Code underpins our CSR programme and supports A commitment to develop Openness, trust and integrity our business integrity.
During 2007, we performance indicators We have a commitment to open dialogue and launched a specific ethical business training We want to track our progress along our CSR transparency with all of our stakeholders.
programme for our European buying team journey and to update our stakeholders on the which supports an ethical approach to progress we are making.
We are developing and We set the highest ethical and professional business practice, the protection of human refining a common set of key performance standards at all times.
We want all our rights and clearly sets out the behaviour indicators KPIs and targets to measure our relationships to be based on honesty, respect we expect from buyers when dealing with CSR success.
These will provide us with a and fairness.
our supply partners across Europe.
means to monitor and manage performance at a Group level, complementing existing measures at a business level.
For example, Speak Up Our whistle-blowing programme is now available to we are working to assess our environmental 99% of our employees globally.
performance using the model recommended by the UK Government Agency DEFRA, and are selecting future KPIs that are relevant to our sector.
We have identified greenhouse gases, particularly CO emissions and waste, 2 as our key environmental impacts.
From October 2007, we implemented a web-based tracking tool across our Top Ten countries representing more than 80% of total Group revenue, to collect the necessary environmental performance data that we require, the results of which will form the basis of our reporting for our 2007 08 CSR review.
16 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Acting responsibly continued Our positive can-do attitude means Developing our people Top Ten countries The Top Ten countries representing more than people are motivated to go the extra mile We know from the results of our survey that 80% of total Group revenue.
and the results show that our new Guiding we need to do more to help our people Principles are fast becoming part of everyday develop their skills and further their careers life at Compass.
This is something we will continue to focus on in 2008 through USA our global employment brand, talent Our Guiding Principles UK Health, Safety and Environment First management and various learning and Delivering for Clients and Consumers development programmes.
Developing our People and Valuing Diversity France Profitable Growth Training and development programmes for Constant Focus on Performance and Efficiency Japan all employees are important both for our employees to fulfil their potential and to the Canada In addition, three-quarters of employees who ability of the business to achieve its goals.
responded agree that we are focused on The development of leadership skills of Germany delivering excellent service.
senior managers is also a key objective and Compass has enabled an increasing number Italy We are able to compare some of our 2007 of participants to attend in-house or external results with those achieved in our 2005 survey.
Since its inception in 2003, our Spain Very positively, we see solid improvement in current Compass Group Masters Programme Netherlands ratings for health and safety, embracing has seen over 60 members of our global diversity and people being treated fairly senior management graduate and achieve Switzerland regardless of their gender, age, race, an MSc in Business Leadership.
Moreover, internal the programme each student applies their perceptions of the Group being a good experience and skills to a business challenge corporate citizen also show improvement.
that directly relates to the business priorities in their job role and has measurable impact.
Health and safety is at the heart of everything The structured programme involves extensive we do.
The survey results support this as internal and external research, drawing on Our people people continue to agree that we place a internal and external best practice and theory, We employ over 360,000 people in around high priority in this area and around 8 in as well as practical issues such as resources, 64 countries.
Our success is dependent on the 10 people feel they are equipped to do their budgeting and project planning.
They remain job safely and well.
our most important asset and represent the We continue to devote significant attention face that Compass presents to the world.
At the unit site level, people are delivering and resources to the training of our A key objective is to ensure that we provide improved service and performance by employees.
Over 81,500 days of staff training a workplace environment that encourages working together.
Our Unit Managers are were provided during the year in our largest and supports our employees in achieving their a real strength and highly regarded by their businesses representing more than 80% of best personal performance.
They are respectful towards colleagues Group revenue.
motivated workforce will enable our people and make clear whats expected in the to achieve their performance goals.
Our employees believe managers Equal opportunities are good communicators keeping people We regard the promotion of equal Over the last five years, we have conducted informed of changes that may affect opportunities as a long-term commitment.
We a number of employee surveys across the them, while also providing constructive expect all of our employees to be treated with business.
In line with our new HR and performance feedback.
Our equal opportunity business strategies, we recently evolved the policy is designed to ensure that both current way we conduct these surveys to help us better We have also been able to compare our results and potential employees are offered the same understand how we can maximise employee with those of other multinational, multi-site opportunity to do a job regardless of sex, commitment, retention and discretionary service-oriented businesses.
It is pleasing to race, colour, religion, nationality, ethnic effort, in other words engagement.
note that in certain areas we rank above other origin, age, sexual orientation, marital major employers.
How our managers give status or disability.
We value the diversity In April 2007, over 150,000 people from helpful feedback and how the Company values of our people and strongly believe that 20 of our largest businesses representing ideas and opinions are just two examples.
a more diverse workforce is a more creative over 90% of total Group revenue had the workforce, and one better able to adapt to opportunity to participate in our new Your While the survey gives us the ability to target change.
The more our employees reflect the Voice People Survey.
This year we extended our efforts and resources in those areas that diversity of our clients and customers, the our use of web surveys while also giving many have the greatest influence on engagement, better equipped we will be to service their of our employees the opportunity to share one of the real successes has been making the needs.
We believe we have the right policies their views using the telephone.
results accessible to all employees, especially in place to meet or exceed legal requirements those in our units sites.
People believe in the in this area, although we continue to Overall, the results from our 2007 survey are survey, and globally more than 6 in 10 expect undertake further work to explore the factors very encouraging and our response rate of positive action to be taken on the results.
that are critical to achieving greater diversity.
61% was slightly ahead of that seen in our 2005 survey.
Employees have a clear line of Our next global People Survey is planned Reward sight with our new mission and understand for early 2009 and will include additional Our remuneration policy seeks to deliver how they contribute to success.
Managers feel countries to those participating in the 2007 improved performance throughout the the Group is making the right changes to be survey such that we will aim to reach some business, balancing short-term success with successful, has a clear sense of direction and 160,000 employees.
the attainment of our longer-term business is successfully focusing on both long-term goals and shareholder return.
We work to strategies and short-term results.
attract and retain people of proven ability, experience and skills.
Under our pay and Business & Industry Fine Dining Healthcare & Seniors Education Sports & Leisure Defence, Offshore Vending 17 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 reward programme, in the year to performance continues to be our aim, seeking Healthy eating 30 September 2007, the Group paid gross over the next five years to set the benchmark We support schools, parents and pupils to choose a healthy, balanced diet.
Within this for our industry.
figure, social security contributions and payroll taxes together with pensions and other We strive to continuously improve our employee costs amounted to 638 million performance and from October 2007 started and 76 million respectively.
to measure our performance against a set of clear KPIs and targets to assure our customers A safe and healthy workplace and others who work with us that we are Our number one operational priority remains operating the safest environment possible.
health, safety and the environment for the Specifically, we: 20 million daily consumers who eat and drink with us.
seek to prevent injury to any employee, customer or contractor: All management and Board meetings consider the safety implications of our throughout the Group feature a Health and procurement decisions: Safety update as one of their first agenda initiate a full risk assessment programme items.
The Board reviews the Health and Safety upon commencement of a new contract: and Food Safety policies annually to ensure ensure that every employee is properly that they each continue to reflect our aims trained to safely perform their work: and and aspirations with a continued alignment have in place appropriate consultation with legislation.
Supporting the Board is our arrangements to enable our employees and internal Health, Safety and Environment Forum their representatives to communicate and made up of technical specialists from around raise concerns about health and safety the Compass globe.
It has become the key management.
body responsible for promoting policy, setting standards, measuring compliance and sharing We also expect similarly high standards from best practice in these areas across the Group.
our suppliers and business partners.
We believe that each of us at Compass Health and safety have always had a special Diet and nutrition has a moral obligation to safeguard each focus for our offshore and remote site As a global foodservice company, we other, our customers and the environment workplaces, where our customers demand the recognise that we have an enormous impact by operating a safe, injury free and healthy very highest operational standards.
A good on what our 20 million daily consumers workplace, serving food that is always safe example of our success is in Denmark, where choose to eat and drink.
Our contribution to eat and which minimises our impact on our ESS support services team on the South to their diet and nutrition is our most the environment.
To ensure best practice, Arne platform in the North Sea have significant impact.
Our primary concern we have developed a set of policies, minimum completed five years of providing services to is that the food we serve is prepared to the operating standards and behaviours to be our customer with no lost-time incidents.
very highest standards using quality products rolled out across our Top Ten as a minimum, and ingredients and, at the very minimum, by December 2008.
These standards are We received further recognition of our success we comply with all relevant legislation and based on the strictest regulatory requirements in this area when our ESS support services approved codes of practice.
Indeed, world-class team in Kazakhstan were proud to have achieved the significant milestone of reaching Initially developed in our UK and US 2,000,000 man-hours worked without a Day businesses, we are progressively implementing Away From Work Case at the Tengizchevroil during 2008, a healthy eating framework Safety first Our ESS support services team on the South Arne Village.
We are responsible for the safe and called Balanced Choices, which will Platform in the North Sea achieved five years of service efficient running of this remote site serving form the basis of a minimum standard to the client with no lost-time incidents.
approximately 3,000 meals per day, with for implementation in our Top Ten.
difficult working conditions and extreme The framework is based on sound science, temperatures.
regulatory requirements and industry best practice.
To become a registered Balanced Our UK business reached a health and safety Choices outlet, the staff must undertake a milestone this year, with the 50,000th detailed training programme.
In the UK, Compass employee gaining the Quality over 600 units are already qualified to operate Through Hygiene and Quality Through Balanced Choices and in Belgium, Balanced Safety qualifications from the Institution of Choices has recently been officially endorsed Occupational Safety & Health IOSH.
We by the Belgian Government.
In our US have enjoyed a successful partnership with business, almost 1,500 units offer Balanced IOSH for several years, with the training Choices to their customers every day.
body providing food safety and health and safety training via distance learning to our We are working closely with our customers customer-facing employees.
and through them with our consumers as well as our suppliers, governments and From October 2007, we began to measure regulators across the globe to respond to and report on the number of days lost across public health issues such as those associated our Top Ten, as a result of health and safety with obesity and diet.
We aim to provide a incidents.
We will include the results of lost wide choice of menu items so that consumers day injuries in our 2008 CSR report and our seeking healthier options are well served.
aim will be to expand the reporting of days lost across the Group and to consistently improve and reduce such numbers.
18 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Acting responsibly continued In the UK, our Education businesses to purchase from within 150 miles of each As in all other areas, Compass requires Scolarest in state schools and Chartwells caf has grown at an unprecedented rate with similarly high standards from its suppliers for the independent sector recognise that local purchases exceeding US$55 million in 2007. and contractors.
Additionally, in the majority teaching children, and increasingly their of our locations where we are not directly parents, about food and getting them In 2007, we have seen the amount of responsible for the procurement of utilities, enthused about healthy eating is key.
We Fairtrade coffee that we buy increase to equipment, fuel etc.
we are working closely promote a whole school approach, supported 3.4 million cups per year across Europe, with our clients to consider how best to by information for parents, extra training for which represents a 10% increase on last year.
improve the environmental performance our teams and also encourage pupils to eat of our operations.
healthily with a range of initiatives, including Environment cooking workshops in schools.
All Scolarest A key driver towards our success is the During the year, we have made good progress school meals meet the UK Governments degree of autonomy which is afforded to in logistics efficiencies, such as where our food-based standards and 60% of primary local management teams, allowing them to French colleagues have worked closely schools also meet the more strict nutrient serve local markets in the most appropriate with their nominated logistics partners to standards which will be introduced in 2008. manner.
To support their activities, we have consolidate the range of products required developed an environmental policy supported by our business to fewer logistics providers.
Another innovative example of our by a minimum operating standard and a set Outlets consequently require fewer deliveries commitment to improving the wellbeing of of behaviours that are being introduced into but without negatively impacting on the way children, is the BackPack programme in all our operations.
The underlying principles in which they operate.
During the last three Atlantic City, USA which helps ensure that relating to the environment cover: the years, the streamlining of logistics providers some of the neediest children have enough integration of environmental management and the increase in the average weight per nutritious food to eat over the weekend.
into our business operations to reduce delivery has helped to reduce the total Each Friday, our Chartwells team provide our known impacts: the commitment to number of deliveries into our French business backpacks filled with healthy, non-perishable compliance with all relevant environmental by 350,000 deliveries over the period, thus food that are collected by the children in the legislation and best practice: a commitment reducing the CO emissions.
2 programme, providing them with sufficient to strive for continual improvement: and a food to last the weekend.
The children return commitment to ensure proper communication Our UK business is mindful of running a the empty backpacks on Monday morning, with, and training for, employees to enable large fleet of vehicles with relatively high so that they can be filled again.
them to meet our standards.
We are aiming, mileage and the subsequent effect this may over time, for our behavioural policy to set have on the environment.
Consequently, those Around the world, our consumers are the benchmark for our industry.
drivers who choose company vehicles with becoming increasingly mindful and low CO emissions are acknowledged with an 2 knowledgeable about the nutritional aspects We have set clear environmental objectives incentive payment for every one unit of CO 2 of what they choose to eat.
We are, therefore, in the following areas to: emission below 170 that their chosen vehicle using frameworks like Balanced Choices to emits.
This scheme is being evaluated for enhance nutritional labelling across our food reduce the water and energy used in our potential implementation to our other product range, providing customers with principal office and production units: countries.
the information that they need to make reduce the CO emissions of our 2 informed choices.
vehicle fleets: At unit level, our UK business has for the last reduce the waste packaging of our supply two years organised the collection of used Responsible supply chain chain: and cooking oil from our units for conversion The provenance and origin of the food seek to reduce food miles by increasing the to bio-fuel, with over 80% of used cooking oil we purchase is a key consideration for us.
use of seasonally available products sourced currently diverted to this use.
Furthermore, We require that food is only purchased from from the relevant domestic markets.
our logistics partners in the UK have begun authorised suppliers and is always prepared switching their commercial fuel use to under conditions that do not expose it In October 2007, we introduced a web-based bio-diesel.
to the risk of contamination.
We expect our reporting tool to track and report globally, in suppliers to comply with the social, ethical a consistent manner, on our CO emissions.
Leiths caf at the British Library was one 2 and environmental standards specified in We have initially launched the tool with our of the first establishments in London to sign our Vendor Assurance Programme.
Across Top Ten countries and will extend the up to the Climate Care programme, which our Top Ten, our suppliers are assessed programme to more countries in 2008. offsets customers carbon footprints.
The according to risk assessment criteria, to ensure Last Word was conceived as an enhancement that they too adhere to our own exacting The tool will help us to measure such areas as: to the services already provided at the approach.
We also recognise the benefits British Library and as a response to the of working closely with them, especially in petrol and diesel used by company cars growing trend for ethical and responsible developing markets, to share knowledge and and fleet vehicles: management.
Leiths pays to offset all its expertise that will help both organisations directly purchased electricity, which carbon emissions including the travel costs maintain the standards that our clients and generates greenhouse gases including CO of the staff and supply of food from depot 2 customers have come to expect.
emissions relating to our main office to unit, and all on-site energy costs.
Where locations and significant production units possible, energy efficient lighting has been Increasingly, we work with local producers across our Top Ten countries: and used and all appliances are minimum A rated to improve their skills and capabilities to volume of general office waste generated for energy efficiency.
help them develop new markets and support per annum relating to our main office the local community.
Our ground-breaking locations and significant production units Within our European supply chain, we are Farm to Fork programme is one such across our Top Ten countries.
currently trialling the use of re-usable plastic example of working with local producers.
crates for the transport of our fresh produce This programme, started in 1999 by our Bon These results will act as the baseline data with the aim of maintaining hygiene but Apptit team in the USA, set a new standard for 2007 08 and form the platform for our significantly reducing the amount of for how a foodservice company could support environmental reporting in future years.
cardboard packaging which is currently local communities.
The Bon Apptit initiative In our 2008 CSR Report, we will publish used to transport fresh produce to our units.
our performance and clearly state our Already in use in our business in Switzerland improvement targets for 2009.
19 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 support to individuals from the local criteria for inclusion in the Index.
The 2007 Compass In The Community Winners of the 2007 Compass In The Community community who have been unemployed on FTSE4Good Index aims to measure the Awards, recognised for their community investment a long-term basis and to provide them with performance of companies that meet globally in health, nutrition and health and safety programmes.
We are proud recognised CSR standards and to facilitate to have received a re-accreditation of the investment in those companies where such previous Big Tick awarded for the restaurant issues are a deciding factor for investors.
As a signatory to the United Nations Global In July 2007, our UK and Ireland ESS team Compact, we are also committed to taking initiative for the rehabilitation of female action to support and uphold each of the prisoners also won a BITC Example of principles it describes in relation to business Excellence award.
The programme provides integrity, human rights and the environment.
training and support, including the chance to gain National Vocational Qualification A further index, the Dow Jones Sustainability catering qualifications, training in customer Index, assesses companies corporate service, health and safety and basic food responsibility strategies in terms of corporate preparation.
Barriers to employment are governance, economic performance and effectively removed, helping ex-offenders impact on the environment.
In 2007, we from HM Prison Drake Hall find work and scored a creditable 71% overall score for make a fresh start following their release.
our approach to community investment 2006: 65% against a sector maximum score and the Netherlands, we are now trialling this Since 1994, our Chartwells team in the average of 75%.
initiative in our UK business where, once fully US has been in partnership with Pioneer implemented, we can expect to save at least House in Peabody, providing an advocacy Charitable donations in the year to 30 September 2007: 2.5m kg of packaging waste per annum.
and support network to members of the community with mental health illnesses.
We are developing Group-wide guidelines The programme provides assistance with 1.16m on the management of recycling and waste employment, housing and education, with separation.
Our French colleagues have made the transitional and supported employment good headway already with an initiative programmes offered by Chartwells, helping PerCent Club through Compass In The Community and the launched in 2006 to segregate their waste for to give these members of the community a fund raising efforts of our employees, total donations recycling purposes.
In 2007, over 70% of our stable and productive work experience.
in monetary resource and donations in kind: French outlets participated in the programme which represents a 5% increase on the 2006 An innovative approach from our ESS team participation rates.
in Bogota, Colombia, resulted in a significant 1.25m and sustainable improvement to the lives of Compass In The Community the inhabitants of the economically depressed Payroll giving initiative We have a strong track record in community small town of Pueblo Viejo, Colombia.
by the UK business in the last year to: engagement and investment.
Compass In The By teaching best practice safety standards Community, now in its 10th year, recognises and handling procedures, our team helped the best community-based initiatives from make the towns fish-breeding programme 87 charities across the Compass world.
Each year, we more productive, resulting in increased fish hold an award ceremony to recognise, production and better overall fish quality for reward and celebrate our global community community consumption and external sale.
engagement programmes and the teams that make them happen.
Projects promote healthy Donations lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve During the year to 30 September 2007 employment chances and promote sustainability charitable donations were 1,162,000. and diversity.
Whilst it is not possible to list here all the worthy projects with which We are members of the PerCent Club and Compass In The Community has been through our Compass In The Community involved, the following are just a few of programme and the fund raising efforts of the many good news stories.
our employees, we have donated a total of 1.25 million in monetary resource and We value our membership of Business in donations in kind.
the Community BITC, an organisation which seeks to inspire, engage, support In addition, a payroll giving initiative in and challenge companies to continually our UK business has generated more than improve the impact they have on society 140,000, supporting over 87 different and the environment.
charities during the last year.
As a major player in our industry, we Achievements recognise our responsibility to bring on and Like many listed companies, Compass champion culinary talent and expertise.
CSR performance is rated by independent The UK and Ireland business work with organisations that assess the extent to Hoxton Apprentice, a highly successful which companies effectively manage social enterprise restaurant in London, social, environmental and ethical matters.
The venture provides in-work support and In 2005, we became a member of the UKs mentoring and is operated by Training for FTSE4Good Index Series following its Policy Life.
Their aim is to provide training and Committees decision that we had met the 20 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary directors report Summary report of the directors Principal activities and business review Corporate governance A review of the Groups principal activities and The Board is committed to the highest business review, results and future development standards of corporate governance set out can be found in the Group at a glance section in the Combined Code the Code on at the beginning of this review.
Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
Dividends The Board is accountable to the Companys A final dividend is proposed for the year shareholders for good governance and the full ended 30 September 2007 of 7.2 pence financial statements describe how the Board per share payable on 3 March 2008 to applied the principles of good governance set shareholders on the register at the close of out in the Code during the year under review.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 30 January 2008.
The Company applied all the principles set This together with the interim dividend out in section 1 of the Code for the period of 3.6 pence per share paid on 6 August 2007 under review and has throughout the year makes a total for the period of 10.8 pence complied with the detailed provisions set per share.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are required to Directors review whether the preceding statement Biographical details of the current directors reflects the Companys compliance with are set out on page 14.
Sir Ian Robinson the nine provisions of the Code specified and Gary Green were appointed to the Board for its review by the Listing Rules of the on 1 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 UK Listing Authority and to report if it respectively.
Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker does not reflect such compliance.
No such were appointed to the Board on 17 February report has been made.
2007 and Susan Murray was appointed to the Board on 11 October 2007.
Val Gooding, Summary financial statement Peter Cawdron and Peter Blackburn ceased This annual review and summary financial to be directors on 31 December 2006, statement does not contain sufficient 16 February 2007 and 31 October 2007 information to allow as full an understanding respectively.
Details of the directors of the results of the Group and state of remuneration are set out on pages 21 to 27. affairs of the Company or the Group and of their policies and arrangements concerning Retirement and re-election of directors directors remuneration as would be provided Sir Roy Gardner and Steve Lucas retire by the full annual financial statements from the Board by rotation and will stand and reports.
for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Sir James Crosby, Tim Parker Shareholders who wish to receive full and Susan Murray are standing for election financial statements and reports in place of at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
the summary financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007 and all future years Annual General Meeting should write to the Company Secretary at the The Annual General Meeting will be held at Companys registered office, the address of the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, which is shown on the back cover.
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00a.
The independent auditors report on the full Following the introduction of the Companies financial statements of the Group for the year Act 2006, Resolution 15, which seeks to ended 30 September 2007 is unqualified and amend the Articles of Association, will does not contain any statement concerning be proposed as a special resolution at the inadequate accounting records or failure to meeting and further details are set out in obtain necessary information or explanations.
21 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary directors report Summary directors remuneration report including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 30 September 2007 This report summarises the remuneration The committee also maintains an active In addition, Alithos Limited provided report, which has been prepared on the dialogue with shareholder representatives and information for the testing of the total recommendation of the Remuneration its full terms of reference are set out on the shareholder return performance conditions Committee the committee and in Companys website www.
for the Companys Long-Term Incentive accordance with the requirements of the Plan LTIP.
Shareholders will be Membership of the committee invited to approve the report at the Annual The committee consists entirely of The Chairman and the Group Chief General Meeting on 8 February 2008. independent non-executive directors as Executive together with Jane Kingston, The report covers the following matters: defined in the Code.
The committee has the Group Human Resources Director, and been chaired by Sir James Crosby, senior David Walker, Director of Group Reward, executive remuneration policy for the independent non-executive director since are normally invited to attend each committee year ended 30 September 2007 and the his appointment as a director on 17 February meeting and provide advice and guidance to intended policy for the year ending 2007.
Sir James Crosby succeeded Peter the committee other than in respect of their 30 September 2008: and Cawdron as Chairman of the committee own remuneration.
directors remuneration, incentive plan upon his retirement as a director of the participation and pension provision.
Company at the conclusion of the 2007 Summary of activity during the year Annual General Meeting.
Other members During the year the committee conducted its With the exception of the annual who served during the year were Sir Roy annual review of remuneration to ensure that performance-related award, service Gardner: Sven Kado: Steve Lucas: Tim Parker, the overall remuneration structure continues agreement details, the first shareholder since his appointment on 17 February 2007: to promote the Companys business strategy.
return graph on page 24, disclosure of and Val Gooding until her resignation on In addition the committee sought to remuneration to other senior executives and 31 December 2006.
Biographical details of harmonise Executive Committee members external directorships, the information set the current members of the committee are service contracts in order to expressly require out on pages 21 to 27 of this report represents set out on page 14.
The General Counsel and an executive to seek alternative employment the auditable disclosures referred to in the Company Secretary acts as the secretary to in the event of termination and to accept Independent auditors statement on page 28 the committee.
The committee met on six payments in lieu of notice in monthly as specified by the UK Listing Authority occasions during the year.
Further details of the executive and under Schedule 7A of the Companies directors service contracts are set out on Act 1985.
Advisors to the committee page 26.
The committee also reviewed the The committee has access to detailed external long-term incentive plans and reconfirmed Role of Remuneration Committee information and research on market data that the bonus matching and share option The Board sets the Companys remuneration and trends from independent consultants.
plans would not be used for new awards to policy and the committee is responsible, During the year KPMG LLP who also executive directors without seeking renewed within the authority delegated by the Board, provide due diligence services and support shareholder approval.
The committee also for determining specific remuneration some of the Companys internal audit reviewed the free cash flow targets used packages and the terms and conditions projects,  LLP who in the LTIP in light of the disposal of the of employment for the members of the also provide expatriate assignment advice Selecta vending business and adjusted the Executive Committee, which comprises and the Hay Group were engaged by same for awards made in the years ended the executive directors and other senior the committee to advise on the design of 30 September 2006 and 2007.
The committee ensures that the incentive arrangements, job evaluation and LTIP and the adjustments made to the targets members of the Executive Committee are remuneration levels as well as general human are set out on pages 23 and 24. provided with the appropriate incentives to resource and compensation related matters.
enhance the Groups performance and to The committee also engaged Mercer Human reward them for their personal contribution Resource Consulting who also provided to the success of the business.
The committee pensions and actuarial advice to some of reviews the remuneration arrangements for the Groups pension schemes to provide Group employees whose salaries exceed a advice on job evaluation, remuneration specified level and administers the Companys levels and pension issues for employees share incentive plans.
The committee also below executive director level, and they determines the Chairmans remuneration also provided general actuarial advice.
The although the Board itself determines the level committee also sought advice from Freshfields of fees paid to the non-executive directors.
Bruckhaus Deringer in its capacity as legal No directors are involved in deciding their advisor to the Company.
22 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary directors report Summary directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy and components Salary Annual bonus The committee reviews the Companys Base salaries are rigorously benchmarked The annual bonus is earned by the remuneration philosophy and structure and reflect the role, job size and responsibility achievement of performance targets set by the each year to ensure that the remuneration as well as individual performance and committee at the start of each financial year framework remains effective in supporting the effectiveness.
The Group Chief Executives and is delivered in cash.
The target or par Companys business objectives, in line with salary is reviewed annually each June by the award for the year ended 30 September 2007 best practice and fairly rewards individuals committee with any increase taking effect on was 75% of base salary, with a further for the contribution that they make to the 1 July of each year.
Other executives salaries maximum of 75% of base salary available for business, having regard to the size and are subject to annual review each December superior performance.
complexity of the Groups operations and with any increases taking effect on 1 January.
the need to retain, motivate and attract For the year ended 30 September 2007, employees of the highest calibre.
The annual base salaries of the executive the bonus measures for Messrs Cousins and directors are: Martin were Group profit before interest Annual base salaries The committee intends that base salary and tax PBIT 60%, free cash flow FCF Richard Cousins 800,000 effective 1 July 2007 and total remuneration of executive 20% and a personal target PT 20% Gary Green US$1,000,000 effective 1 January 2007 directors should be in line with the market.
with a supplementary financial underpin Andrew Martin 500,000 effective 1 January 2007 Remuneration is benchmarked annually such that the amount payable pursuant to the against rewards available for equivalent achievement of the FCF and PT measures Benefits roles in a suitable comparator group with would be halved unless the threshold PBIT These comprise healthcare insurance for the aim of paying neither significantly above measure was achieved.
Mr Greens 60% 20% executive directors and their dependants, nor below the median for each element of PBIT cash targets are split as to 20% 5% limited financial advice, life assurance and remuneration.
The committee also considers based on Group PBIT FCF and 40% 15% car benefit.
general pay and employment conditions based on PBIT cash flow for his area of elsewhere within the Group when assessing responsibility in the USA, Canada and Mexico.
Pensions the level of salaries and remuneration The Groups policy is not to offer defined packages.
The percentages of base salary shown below benefit arrangements to new employees at were paid to the directors for the year ended any level save where required by applicable The total remuneration package links 30 September 2007. legislation.
Incoming executive directors corporate and individual performance with are invited either to join the Companys Actual bonus paid an appropriate balance between shortand contracted-in money purchase arrangement % of base salary long-term elements, and fixed and variable or to take a fixed salary supplement, which Richard Cousins 145.5% components.
The policy is designed to Gary Green 127.5% is excluded from any bonus calculation.
Andrew Martin 147.0% incentivise executives to meet the Companys key objectives, such that a significant portion At 30 September 2007 there were no of total remuneration is performance related, The committee continues to be satisfied that executive directors actively participating in based on a mixture of internal targets linked the performance targets are challenging and any Compass Group defined benefit pension to the Companys key business drivers which promote the Companys business strategy and arrangements and none of the executive can be easily measured, understood and have, accordingly, confirmed that there will directors is accruing additional entitlement accepted by both executives and shareholders be no change to the bonus measures for the to benefit under any arrangements that and appropriate external comparator groups.
year ending 30 September 2008, together existed prior to their appointment as The committee considers that the targets set with the supplementary underpin based on executive directors.
for the different elements of performance achievement of the Groups PBIT target.
related remuneration are both appropriate Richard Cousins and Gary Green elected and demanding in the context of the business to receive a salary supplement equal to 35% environment and the challenges with which of their basic salaries in lieu of pension.
The following table shows the average proportions of salary, target or In the light of the A Day pension legislation, par bonus, pension, benefits and the expected Andrew Martin also elected to receive a salary value of long-term incentives granted to each supplement equal to 35% of basic salary with of the executive directors during the year effect from 6 April 2006 and waived all rights ended 30 September 2007. to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and unfunded unapproved pension Details of each individual element of the relating to his employment prior to that date remuneration package are given below.
Executive directors remuneration package elements Year ended 30 September 2007 33% Salary 3% Benefits 12% Pension 25% Annual bonus 27% LTIP 23 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Emoluments The aggregate remuneration of the directors who served during the financial year ended 30 September 2007 was as follows: Salary Salary Annual 2007 2006 1 & fees supplement bonus Benefits Total Total Name of director 000 000 000 000 000 000 Directors in service at 30 September 2007 Chairman Sir Roy Gardner 363 38 401 188 Executive directors Richard Cousins 763 267 1,164 36 2,230 831 2 Gary Green 380 133 484 21 1,018 Andrew Martin 494 168 735 57 1,454 1,229 Non-executive directors Peter Blackburn 60 60 50 3 Sir James Crosby 63 63 4 Sven Kado 67 67 53 Steve Lucas 75 75 65 3 Tim Parker 38 38 5 Sir Ian Robinson 50 50 Former directors 6 Peter Cawdron 38 38 90 7 Val Gooding 15 15 50 Directors who left during the previous year 2,282 Total 2,406 568 2,383 152 5,509 4,838 1.
A supplement of 35% of basic salary is paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation.
Gary Green was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2007 and the figures shown in the above table are pro-rated for the nine months from that date.
Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker were appointed as directors of the Company on 17 February 2007.
The figure shown for Sven Kado for 2006 and 2007 includes a fee of m4,000 and m10,000 respectively in respect of his non-executive directorship of Compass Group Deutschland GmbH.
Sir Ian Robinson was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 December 2006.
Peter Cawdron resigned as a director of the Company on 16 February 2007.
Val Gooding resigned as a director of the Company on 31 December 2006.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 50% of any LTIP award is based on the adjustment which maintained the targets The Company currently operates an LTIP Groups FCF over the three-year performance originally set in respect of the remaining under which executives may receive a period and 50% on the Companys TSR over business.
The minimum and maximum conditional award of shares which may vest the same period relative to the companies targets for awards made in the year after a single three-year performance period, comprising the TSR comparator group at ended 30 September 2006 were amended based on the achievement of stretching the start of the performance period.
The from 825 million and 900 million to performance conditions.
Prior to each year precise FCF target for each award is linked 768 million and 843 million and the FCF end the committee agrees the LTIP awards to the Groups wider business targets and targets for awards made in the year ended to be made on the basis of the share price as is set by the committee at the time of grant 30 September 2007 from 950 million and at the year end.
Because each LTIP award based on Group projections and market 1,050 million to 859 million and also depends on financial information only expectations.
available after the year end LTIP grants are not normally made until some weeks after No shares vest unless the Group achieves TSR is the aggregate of share price growth the year end.
Both total shareholder return minimum performance.
25% of the portion and dividends paid assuming reinvestment TSR and FCF have been selected since of the award based on FCF vests on the of those dividends in the Companys shares 2006 as the performance conditions which are achievement of minimum performance.
during the third-year performance period.
considered to most closely align the interests Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 100% of the portion of the award based on of participants with those of the shareholders.
25% and 100% where FCF is between TSR will vest if performance is in the top The LTIP rewards the achievement of the minimum and maximum performance.
quartile and 25% of the award will vest Groups FCF targets which are key business Calculations of the achievement of the if performance is at the median.
Where targets for the Group as well as the targets are independently performed and performance is between the median and top Companys relative TSR outperformance are approved by the committee.
quartile, awards will vest on a straight-line against a defined list of comparator basis between the median and top quartile.
companies which aligns the interests of Following the sale of the Selecta vending No shares will be released if the Companys participants with those of shareholders.
business in July 2007, the committee agreed TSR performance is below the median.
During the year the committee reviewed the to adjust the FCF targets for existing awards TSR comparator group and determined that made in the years ended 30 September 2006 the financial services constituents of the and 2007.
The committee considered the FTSE 100 should be excluded for the purpose contribution to the FCF made by the Selecta of the TSR target for awards made in the vending business and sought to make an year ending 30 September 2008.
For awards made in the year ended 30 September 2007 the TSR comparator group was the entire FTSE 100.
24 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary directors report Summary directors remuneration report continued The following table sets out the percentage Awards made since 2004 do not benefit Awards are discretionary and may be granted of each award which has vested and the from retesting.
In addition, for awards made up to an annual maximum of 200% of base percentage of each extant award, had it in the year ended 30 September 2006 and salary.
Each year the committee assesses the vested on 30 September 2007. subsequent years, any vesting of an award balance between fixed and variable pay and at the end of the performance period is resolved that, exceptionally, any award made Percentage vested on maturity conditional upon the committee being in the year ending 30 September 2008 should or indicative vesting percentage satisfied that the underlying financial be set at 200% of annual base salary to Year of based on performance Performance award as at 30 September 2007 conditions performance of the Group justifies such recognise exceptional performance achieved 2001 02 0% ended on 1 October 2006 TSR vesting.
Extant awards remain subject to the during the year ended 30 September 2007.
2002 03 0% ended on 1 October 2007 TSR achievement of performance conditions 2003 04 0% performance after 1st extended performance period of 48 months TSR following a participants agreed retirement 2004 05 0% ended on 1 October 2007 TSR date and vesting is determined at the end 2005 06 73% performance after 24 months TSR FCF of the performance period.
Gary Green was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2007.
100% of the award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the FTSE 100 subject to the achievement of a supplementary financial underpin whereby average increase in earnings per share EPS must be greater than the increase in the UK Retail Price Index RPI over a three year period.
Awards made prior to 2004 were subject to retesting.
The dates shown are the final vesting dates for these awards.
After 2004, all awards have only one vesting date as shown.
All Awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 381.75 pence and the lowest was 264.50 pence.
The year end price was 302.00 pence.
Total shareholder return The performance graphs below show the Companys TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the two and five-year periods to 30 September 2007.
The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as being a broad equity market index of which the Company has been a constituent member throughout each period.
TSR performance against FTSE 100 TSR performance against FTSE 100 Over two years Over five years 200 Compass Group 250 Compass Group FTSE 100 Index FTSE 100 Index 180 200 160 150 140 100 120 50 100 0 Sep 05 Dec 05 Mar 06 Jun 06 Sep 06 Dec 06 Mar 07 Jun 07 Sep 07 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Value of a hypothetical 100 holding Value of a hypothetical 100 holding 25 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Suspended plans Under the Compass Group Bonus value of the Companys shares on the day The LTIP was the only form of equity-based Matching Shares Plan, executive directors prior to grant.
Options would normally be incentive granted for the year ended were permitted to invest up to 50% of any exercisable on a sliding scale between the 30 September 2007, and this will continue pre-tax performance related bonus in the third and tenth anniversaries of the date to be the policy for the year ending Companys shares.
If the shares were held of grant subject to satisfaction of an 30 September 2008. for three years and the director continued to EPS performance condition, after which be employed by the Group, the participant they lapse.
Awards prior to 2005 were made under two would be eligible to receive a proportion of further share incentive plans in previous years: matching shares based on the Group achieving The Company also has in place UK and the Compass Group Bonus Matching Shares underlying earnings per share average growth overseas all-employee plans in which Plan and the Compass Group Share Option in excess of RPI over the period.
Existing rights under these plans remain no grants have been made under these plans and may result in the vesting of further shares Under the Compass Group Share Option since 2005.
Further details of the plans may in the capital of the Company.
Shareholder Plan, executive directors were eligible to be found in prior years annual reports.
approval will be sought should the Company receive awards equating to an annual wish to make any further awards to executive maximum of 200% of basic salary, at an directors under these suspended plans.
exercise price not lower than the market Suspended plans The tables below show the number of options and awards held by the directors in office during the year under the suspended share incentive plans.
Directors bonus matching share awards As at date of As at Market price appointment: 30 Sep 2007: at date of number of number of award: Name of director shares shares pence Deferral period 1 Gary Green 103,275 103,275 220.50 1 Oct 2004 30 Sep 2007 1.
These shares can be called for by Mr Green in the 12 months from 1 October 2007.
Options were awarded under the Compass Group 1999 Executive Share Option Plan.
The performance targets on these grants ceased to apply following the Granada Compass merger in 2000.
Options were awarded under the Compass Group Share Option Plan.
If average earnings per share growth is at least 6% over a three year period between grant and exercise, one third of shares under option become exercisable.
Options are exercisable in full at 12% growth and on a straight line basis in between.
Performance is tested once only after a three year period.
There is no further opportunity for retesting.
The earnings per share target has not been met.
The target may be retested annually for the life of the option.
Options were awarded under an all-employee plan, and are not subject to satisfaction of a performance target.
No awards or options were granted or exercised under any of the suspended share incentive plans during the year ended 30 September 2007.
Earnings per share measures have been adjusted for awards made prior to 2005 to achieve consistency between IFRS and UK GAAP reporting.
26 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary directors report Summary directors remuneration report continued Dilution limits Share ownership policy Plan limits headroom 5% in 10 years 10% in 10 years All of the Companys equity based incentive In order that their interests are aligned with plans incorporate the current ABI Guidelines those of shareholders, executive directors are on headroom which provide that overall expected to build up and maintain a personal dilution under all plans should not exceed shareholding in the Company of at least 10% over a 10 year period in relation to the 100% of gross base salary.
New directors Companys issued share capital or reissue of will undertake to build up their shareholding treasury shares, with the further limitation of within four years of their appointment.
5% in any 10 year period on executive plans.
The committee reviewed and noted that The committee regularly monitors the these targets were achieved by all executive position and prior to the making of any award directors during the year.
3.73% Executive 2.77% All Employee considers the effect of potential vesting of 0.38% LTIP 3.73% Executive options or share awards to ensure that the Chairman 0.89% Headroom 0.38% LTIP Company remains within these limits.
Any The fee for the Chairman is reviewed 3.12% Headroom awards which are required to be satisfied by annually by the committee each June market purchased shares are excluded from with any increase taking effect on 1 July.
No treasury shares were The Chairmans fee was set at 400,000 p. a. utilised in the year ended 30 September 2007. with effect from 1 July 2007.
As at 30 September 2007, the Companys The Chairman is not eligible for pension headroom position, which remains within scheme membership, bonus or incentive current ABI Guidelines, was as shown in the arrangements.
He is entitled to the provision table to the left.
of life and medical insurance for himself and his spouse, financial planning assistance and Service agreements car benefit.
It is the Companys policy that service contracts for the executive directors have no Policy on remuneration of nonfixed term but are capable of termination executive directors on 12 months notice from the Company The fees for the non-executive directors and six months notice from the director, are reviewed and determined by the Board 12 months for Richard Cousins.
The base fee for the year ended Company also retains the right to terminate 30 September 2007 was 60,000 p. a. with an the contract immediately by making a additional fee of 15,000 p. a. payable where payment in lieu of notice equal to 12 months a non-executive director acts as Chairman of pay, on target bonus, pension supplement and either the Audit or Remuneration Committee an amount equal to 10% of basic pay in and an additional fee of 25,000 p. a. for the respect of benefits to be paid in monthly director nominated as senior independent instalments, subject to an obligation on the non-executive director.
Non-executive director to mitigate his loss.
The service directors are not eligible for pension scheme contracts outline the components of membership, bonus or incentive remuneration paid to the individual but do arrangements.
not prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year to year.
Non-executive directors have letters of engagement.
They are appointed for an Executive directors service initial period of three years, after which the agreements appointment is renewable at three-year Date of contract intervals by mutual consent.
Details of their Richard Cousins 22 November 2007 appointments, which are terminable without Gary Green 27 November 2007 compensation, are set out in the table on Andrew Martin 27 November 2007 page 27.
External appointments With the Boards agreement executive directors may take up one non-executive directorship outside of the Group.
Richard Cousins receives a fee of 94,000 p. a. in respect of his directorship of HBOS plc, which he is permitted to retain.
27 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Non-executive directors letters of engagement Other senior executives and management Total length There are a number of senior executives who, Original date of service at with the executive directors, comprise the Non-executive director of appointment Letter of engagement 30 September 2007 Executive Committee.
These key management Sir Roy Gardner 1 Oct 2005 15 Sep 2005 2 years roles influence the ability of the Group to 1 Peter Blackburn 10 Apr 2002 16 May 2002 meet its strategic targets.
The committee has renewed 31 Mar 2004 5 years, 5 months regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group whose total remuneration Sir James Crosby 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 7 months including salary and other short-term Sven Kado 10 Apr 2002 10 Apr 2002 benefits, target or par bonus and the renewed 31 Mar 2004 5 years, 5 months expected value of long-term incentives is Steve Lucas 7 Jul 2004 17 Jun 2004 summarised below.
renewed 25 Jun 2007 3 years, 2 months Total remuneration Susan Murray 11 Oct 2007 11 Oct 2007 for the year ended 30 September 2007 Tim Parker 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 7 months 000 Number in band Sir Ian Robinson 1 Dec 2006 1 Dec 2006 10 months 201 500 1 501 800 1.
Mr Blackburn retired from the Board on 31 October 2007.
801 1,100 2 1,101 1,400 3 1,401 1,450 1 On behalf of the Board Sir James Crosby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 November 2007 28 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Independent auditors statement to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Basis of audit opinion We have examined the summary financial We conducted our work in accordance with statements which comprises the consolidated bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on income statement, consolidated statement of the Summary Financial Statement issued by recognised income and expense, consolidated the Auditing Practices Board for use in the balance sheet, consolidated cash flow United Kingdom.
statement and the related notes 1 to 7 together with the summary Directors Our report on the Companys full annual remuneration report.
financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys and the Directors remuneration report.
members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Opinion work has been undertaken so that we might In our opinion, the summary financial state to the Companys members those statements are consistent with the full annual matters we are required to state to them in an accounts, the Directors Report and the auditors report and for no other purpose.
Directors remuneration report of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 2007 and complies with the applicable not accept or assume responsibility to anyone requirements of section 251 of the other than the Company and the Companys Companies Act 1985, and the regulations members as a body, for our audit work, for made thereunder.
this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing Deloitte & Touche LLP the Annual Review in accordance with United Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Kingdom law.
London 28 November 2007 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the Annual Review with the full annual accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
29 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 2007 2007 2006 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items exceptional items items Note 3 Total items Note 3 Total Notes m m m m m m Continuing operations: Revenue 1 10,268 10,268 10,267 10,267 Operating costs 9,743 9,743 9,812 9,812 Operating profit 1 525 525 455 455 Share of profit of associates 44 22 Total operating profit 529 529 457 457 Finance income 28 28 15 15 Finance costs 115 115 160 160 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 6 6 11 11 Profit before tax 436 436 323 323 Income tax expense credit 124 124 105 44 61 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1 312 312 218 44 262 Discontinued operations: Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 2 15 197 212 60 27 33 Continuing and discontinued operations: Profit for the year 327 197 524 278 17 295 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 318 197 515 268 17 285 Minority interest 99 10 10 Profit for the year 327 197 524 278 17 295 Basic earnings per share pence From continuing operations 4 15.0p 11.7p From discontinued operations 4 10.6p 1.6p From continuing and discontinued operations 4 25.6p 13.3p Diluted earnings per share pence From continuing operations 4 15.0p 11.7p From discontinued operations 4 10.4p 1.6p From continuing and discontinued operations 4 25.4p 13.3p 30 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 30 September 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Net income expense recognised in equity Fair value movement on cash flow hedges 4 Currency translation differences 12 7 Actuarial gains losses on post-retirement employee benefits 38 37 Tax on items taken directly to equity 8 3 Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to currency translation differences in prior years 37 Income expense recognised directly in equity 71 37 Transfers Transfer to profit or loss from equity of cumulative translation differences on discontinued activities 2 Transfer to profit or loss from equity on cash flow hedges 6 Net transfer to profit or loss from equity 4 Net gain loss recognised directly in equity Net gain loss recognised directly in equity 71 41 Profit for the financial year Profit for the financial year 524 295 Total recognised income and expense for the year 6 595 254 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 576 248 Minority interests 19 6 Total recognised income and expense for the year 6 595 254 31 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Non-current assets Goodwill 2,985 3,451 Other intangible assets 142 152 Property, plant and equipment 576 756 Interests in associates 25 39 Other investments 12 9 Deferred tax assets 240 237 Trade and other receivables 66 117 Derivative financial instruments 13 22 Non-current assets 4,059 4,783 Current assets Inventories 179 212 Trade and other receivables 1,343 1,424 Tax recoverable 10 10 Derivative financial instruments 2 9 Cash and cash equivalents 839 848 Current assets 2,373 2,503 Total assets 6,432 7,286 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 151 119 Derivative financial instruments 2 Current tax liabilities 171 357 Trade and other payables 1,833 1,990 Provisions 86 65 Current liabilities 2,241 2,533 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 1,452 1,835 Derivative financial instruments 15 18 Post-employment benefit obligations 162 282 Provisions 351 242 Deferred tax liabilities 5 18 Other payables 36 46 Non-current liabilities 2,021 2,441 Total liabilities 4,262 4,974 Net assets 2,170 2,312 Equity Share capital 6 193 210 Share premium account 6 122 96 Capital redemption reserve 6 33 15 Less: own shares 6 1 Other reserves 6 4,312 4,288 Retained earnings 6 2,511 2,303 Total equity shareholders funds 2,148 2,306 Minority interests 6 22 6 Total equity 2,170 2,312 Component of current and deferred taxes Component of net debt Approved by the Board of directors on 28 November 2007 and signed on their behalf by Richard J Cousins, Director Andrew D Martin, Director 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 30 September 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Cash flow from operating activities Cash generated from operations 753 651 Interest paid 152 186 Interest element of finance lease rentals 3 3 Tax received 4 4 Tax paid 121 97 Net cash from used in operating activities of continuing operations 481 369 Net cash from used in operating activities of discontinued operations 18 178 Net cash from used in operating activities 463 547 Cash flow from investing activities Purchase of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings 31 167 Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings discontinued activities 2 782 1,807 Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings other activities 32 Proceeds from sale of other investments 4 Tax on profits from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings 51 50 Contribution of disposal proceeds to pension plans 45 280 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 156 153 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 22 20 Purchase of intangible assets and investments 21 30 Dividends received from associated undertakings 6 2 Interest received 28 15 Net cash from used in investing activities by continuing operations 570 1,164 Net cash from used in investing activities by discontinued operations 30 105 Net cash from used in investing activities 540 1,059 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 6 27 2 1 Purchase of own shares 576 148 Net increase decrease in borrowings 239 647 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 15 15 Equity dividends paid 6 208 213 Dividends paid to minority interests 6 3 11 Net cash from used in financing activities by continuing operations 1,014 1,032 Net cash from used in financing activities by discontinued operations Net cash from used in financing activities 1,014 1,032 Cash and cash equivalents Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 11 574 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 848 281 Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents 2 7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 839 848 1.
Own shares acquired to satisfy employee share-based payments 1 million.
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations for the year ended 30 September 2007 2007 2006 m m Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations 481 369 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 156 153 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 22 20 Purchase of intangible assets and investments 21 30 Dividends received from associated undertakings 6 2 Interest received 28 15 Dividends paid to minority interests 3 11 Free cash flow from continuing operations 357 212 33 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007 1 Segmental reporting Geographical segments North Continental United Rest of Intra America Europe Kingdom the World Group Total Revenues m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2007 Total revenue 4,162 2,842 1,986 1,654 18 10,626 Less: inter-segment revenue 7 7 4 18 External revenue 4,162 2,835 1,979 1,650 10,626 Less: discontinued businesses 282 48 28 358 External revenue continuing 4,162 2,553 1,931 1,622 10,268 Year ended 30 September 2006 Total revenue 4,437 3,321 2,815 1,730 39 12,264 Less: inter-segment revenue 13 10 16 39 External revenue 4,437 3,308 2,805 1,714 12,264 Less: discontinued businesses 147 824 923 103 1,997 External revenue continuing 4,290 2,484 1,882 1,611 10,267 Geographical segments North Continental United Rest of Central America Europe Kingdom the World activities Total Result m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2007 Total operating profit before associates 261 181 107 57 58 548 Less: discontinued businesses 30 7 23 Operating profit before associates continuing 261 151 107 64 58 525 Add: Share of profit of associates 134 Operating profit continuing 262 151 110 64 58 529 Finance income 28 Finance costs 115 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 6 Profit before tax 436 Income tax expense 124 Profit for the year from continuing operations 312 Year ended 30 September 2006 Total operating profit before associates 247 177 125 46 66 529 Less: discontinued businesses 2 55 18 1 74 Operating profit before associates continuing 245 122 107 47 66 455 Add: Share of profit of associates 112 Operating profit continuing 246 122 108 47 66 457 Finance income 15 Finance costs 160 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 11 Profit before tax 323 Income tax expense 61 Profit for the year from continuing operations 262 Russia and Turkey were transferred from the Rest of the World to the Continental Europe segment during the current reporting period to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure.
The 2006 segmental results have been restated on a consistent basis.
The combined revenue and operating profit of these businesses was 46 million and 3 million respectively for the year ended 30 September 2006.
34 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007 1 Segmental reporting continued Business segments Travel Contracts Vending Concessions Total Revenues m m m m Year Ended 30 September 2007 External revenue 9,843 783 10,626 Less: discontinued businesses 33 325 358 External revenue continuing 9,810 458 10,268 Year Ended 30 September 2006 External revenue 9,784 1,009 1,471 12,264 Transfers 77 77 Less: discontinued businesses 121 482 1,394 1,997 External revenue continuing 9,740 527 10,267 The Travel Concessions businesses held on 30 September 2006 were transferred to the Contracts segment to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure.
2 Discontinued operations Year ended 30 September 2007: The Group disposed of its European vending business, Selecta, on 2 July 2007.
The Group has also completed the sale and closure of a number of other small businesses as part of the exit from the discontinued travel concessions business.
The results of all these businesses are classified as discontinued operations and are therefore excluded from the results of continuing operations in 2007.
The 2006 results have been restated on a consistent basis.
The process was complete by the end of the year and no assets or liabilities are classified as being held for sale as at 30 September 2007.
Year ended 30 September 2006: The Group disposed of its Inflight catering operations, which operated principally in Continental Europe, on 19 December 2005, and disposed of its travel concession catering business, Select Service Partner, including Creative Host Services in the US together SSP on 15 June 2006.
The Group also discontinued its Middle East military catering operations and withdrew from or disposed of various other businesses.
The results of these businesses are classified as discontinued operations and are therefore excluded from the results of continuing operations in 2006.
This process was substantially complete by the end of the year and no assets or liabilities were classified as being held for sale at 30 September 2006.
2007 2006 1 2 Selecta Other Total SSP Selecta Other Total Net assets disposed and disposal proceeds m m m m m m m Goodwill 411 2 413 798 51 849 Other intangible assets 10 10 Property, plant and equipment 144 2 146 755 125 880 Investments 538 Inventories 37 37 299 38 Trade and other receivables 58 3 61 74 49 123 Cash and cash equivalents 53 1 54 94 24 118 Gross assets disposed of 703 8 711 1,765 261 2,026 Trade and other payables 100 100 208 51 259 Post-employment benefit obligations 3 3 10 4 14 Tax 15 15 6 6 12 Minority interest 1 5 6 Other liabilities 3 2 5 5 5 Gross liabilities disposed of 118 5 123 225 71 296 Net assets disposed of 585 3 588 1,540 190 1,730 Liabilities retained 63 45 108 88 21 109 3 Cumulative exchange translation loss recycled on disposals 22 Profit loss on disposal 130 27 103 168 54 114 Consideration, net of costs 778 21 799 1,798 157 1,955 Consideration deferred to future periods 37 8 45 Cash disposed of 53 1 54 94 24 118 Cash inflow from current year disposals 725 20 745 1,667 125 1,792 Deferred consideration relating to previous disposals 3737 15 15 Cash inflow from disposals 725 57 782 1,667 140 1,807 35 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 2 Discontinued operations continued 2007 2006 1 2 Selecta Other Total SSP Selecta Other Total Financial performance of discontinued operations m m m m m m m Trading activities of discontinued operations External revenue 325 33 358 1,238 483 276 1,997 Inter-segment revenues 14 1 15 21 21 Total revenue 339 34 373 1,238 504 276 2,018 Operating costs 307 43 350 1,209 456 279 1,944 Trading activities of discontinued operations before exceptional costs 32 9 23 29 48 3 74 Exceptional operating costs note 3 47 47 Profit before tax 32 9 23 29 48 50 27 Income tax expense credit see below 8 8 7 8 1 14 Profit after tax 24 9 15 22 40 49 13 Exceptional items: disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations Profit on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 130 18 148 170 54 116 4 Increase in provisions related to discontinued operations 45 45 3 Cumulative translation exchange loss recycled on disposals 2 2 Profit on disposal before tax 130 27 103 168 54 114 Income tax expense credit see below 1 95 94 99 5 94 Total profit after tax 129 68 197 69 49 20 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 153 59 212 91 40 98 33 2007 2006 1 2 Selecta Other Total SSP Selecta Other Total Income tax from discontinued operations m m m m m m m Income tax on trading activities of discontinued operations Current tax 7 7 9 12 1 20 Deferred tax 1 1 246 Income tax expense credit on discontinued operations 8 8 7 8 1 14 Exceptional items: income tax on disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations Current tax 1 18 17 117 11 106 Deferred tax 2 2 18 6 12 Exceptional tax credit note 3 7979 Income tax expense credit on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 1 95 94 99 5 94 Total income tax from discontinued operations Total income tax expense credit from discontinued operations 9 95 86 106 8 6 108 1.
Travel concessions and various other non-core businesses and adjustments to prior year disposals.
Middle East military catering operations and various other non-core businesses.
The Group manages foreign currency exposures in accordance with the policies set out in note 20 of the Annual Report, matching its principal projected cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same currency.
As a result the cumulative exchange translation loss recycled on disposals is nil 2006: 2 million.
Additional provisions established in respect of the prior year disposal of travel concessions catering businesses and in respect of Middle East military catering operations discontinued in the prior year.
36 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007 3 Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to clearly explain the financial performance of the Group.
Items reported as exceptional are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
2007 2006 Exceptional items m m Continuing operations Current year tax 5 Adjustment in respect of prior years tax 17 Current year tax 22 Current year deferred tax 22 Adjustment in respect of prior years deferred tax Current year deferred tax 22 Continuing operations 44 Discontinued operations Profit on disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations net of tax note 2 197 20 Settlement of UN contract claims and related expenses 39 Middle East military catering business 8 Discontinued operations 197 27 Continuing and discontinued operations Total 197 17 Year ended 30 September 2007: The Group disposed of its European vending business, Selecta, on 2 July 2007 for a net profit after tax of 129 million.
The Group also completed the sale and closure of a number of other small businesses as part of the exit from discontinued operations, and established additional provisions totalling 45 million in respect of prior year disposals in these areas, resulting in a net loss after tax of 11 million before the net release of tax provisions of 79 million.
These provisions were released following the settlement of a number of long-standing issues connected with prior year discontinued activities.
The total net profit after tax arising on disposal of these operations was 68 million.
Overall an exceptional net credit of 197 million was recognised in the period.
Year ended 30 September 2006: A 44 million exceptional tax credit arose in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses and tax deductions in respect of pension prepayments in the UK tax group that originated in previous years.
39 million was charged to complete investigations and to settle lawsuits for lost profits brought by two competitors of the Group, ES-KO International Inc and Supreme Foodservice AG in relation to contracts awarded to Eurest Support Services by the United Nations.
8 million was provided to settle claims arising in respect of the discontinued Middle East military catering operations.
A profit of 20 million net of cumulative translation exchange losses and tax was recognised in respect of the disposal of the Groups Inflight catering services business on 19 December 2005 and its travel concessions catering business SSP on 15 June 2006.
37 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 4 Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
The adjusted earnings per share figures have been calculated based on earnings excluding the effect of discontinued activities and exceptional items: these are disclosed to show the underlying trading performance of the Group.
2007 2006 Attributable Attributable profit profit Attributable profit m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 515 285 Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations 212 33 Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations 303 252 Less: profit from exceptional items included in continuing operations net of tax 44 Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 303 208 Add back: loss profit from hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 4 7 Underlying attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 307 201 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 10p each 10p each Average number of shares millions of ordinary shares of 10p each millions millions Average number of shares for basic earnings per share 2,015 2,147 Dilutive share options 11 3 Average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 2,026 2,150 2007 2006 Earnings Earnings per share per share pence pence Basic earnings per share pence From continuing and discontinued operations 25.6 13.3 From discontinued operations 10.6 1.6 From continuing operations 15.0 11.7 Exceptional items included in continuing operations net of tax 2.0 From continuing operations before exceptional items 15.0 9.7 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 0.2 0.3 From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 15.2 9.4 Diluted earnings per share pence From continuing and discontinued operations 25.4 13.3 From discontinued operations 10.4 1.6 From continuing operations 15.0 11.7 Exceptional items included in continuing operations net of tax 2.0 From continuing operations before exceptional items 15.0 9.7 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 0.2 0.4 From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 15.2 9.3 5 Dividends 1 A final dividend in respect of 2007 of 7.2 pence per share, 139 million in aggregate, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 8 February 2008 giving a total dividend in respect of 2007 of 10.8 pence per share 2006: 10.1 pence per share.
These financial statements do not include an accrual for this final dividend.
2007 2006 Dividends Dividends per share per share Dividends on ordinary shares of 10p each pence m pence m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders during the year: Final dividend for the prior year 6.7p 136 6.5p 140 Interim dividend for the current year 3.6p 72 3.4p 73 Total dividends 10.3p 208 9.9p 213 1.
Based on the number of shares in issue at 30 September 2007.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007 6 Reconciliation of movements in equity Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Share Capital Share premium redemption Own Other Retained Minority capital account reserve shares reserves earnings interests Total Reconciliation of movements in equity m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2005 216 94 9 1 4,137 2,204 27 2,278 Total recognised income and expense 12 260 6 254 Issue of shares 22 Fair value of share-based payments net 25 25 Share buy-back 6 6 149 149 Transfer on exercise of put options 138 3 10 131 Other changes 1 6 5 210 96 15 4,288 2,090 17 2,536 Dividends paid to Compass shareholders note 5 213 213 Dividends paid to minority interests 11 11 At 30 September 2006 210 96 15 4,288 2,303 6 2,312 At 1 October 2006 210 96 15 4,288 2,303 6 2,312 Total recognised income and expense 1 575 19 595 Issue of shares 1 26 27 Fair value of share-based payments net 14 14 Share buy-back 18 18 575 575 Transfer on exercise of put options 99 Other changes 1 1 193 122 33 1 4,312 2,303 25 2,381 Dividends paid to Compass shareholders note 5 208 208 Dividends paid to minority interests 3 3 At 30 September 2007 193 122 33 1 4,312 2,511 22 2,170 Own shares held by the Group represent 271,960 shares in Compass Group PLC 2006: 161,600 shares.
161,012 shares are held by the Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and 110,948 shares by the Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET2.
These shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange and their market value at 30 September 2007 was 0.8 million 2006: 0.4 million.
ESOP and CGET2 are discretionary trusts for the benefit of employees and the shares held are used to satisfy some of the Groups liabilities to employees for share options, share bonus and long-term incentive plans.
All of the shares held by the ESOP and CGET2 are required to be made available in this way.
The analysis of other reserves is shown below: Equity Share-based adjustment payment Merger Translation Hedging for put Total other reserve reserve reserve reserve options reserves Other reserves m m m m m m At 1 October 2005 105 4,170 16 1 155 4,137 Total recognised income and expense 11 1 12 Fair value of share-based payments 25 25 Settled in cash or existing shares purchased in market Transfer on exercise of put options 138 138 At 30 September 2006 130 4,170 5 17 4,288 At 30 September 2006 130 4,170 5 17 4,288 Total recognised income and expense 11 Fair value of share-based payments 25 25 Settled in cash or existing shares purchased in market 11 11 Transfer on exercise of put options 99 At 30 September 2007 144 4,170 6 8 4,312 The merger reserve arose in 2000 following the demerger from Granada Compass plc.
The equity adjustment for put options arose on the accounting for the options held by the Groups minority partners requiring the Group to purchase those minority interests.
39 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 7 Contingent liabilities 2007 2006 Contingent liabilities m m Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities including those of associated undertakings 227 203 On 21 October 2005, the Company announced that it had instructed Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer to conduct an investigation into the relationships between Eurest Support Services ESS a member of the Group, IHC Services Inc. IHC and the United Nations UN.
Ernst & Young assisted Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in this investigation.
On 1 February 2006, it was announced that the investigation had concluded.
The investigation established serious irregularities in connection with contracts awarded to ESS by the UN.
The work undertaken by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Young gave no reason to believe that these issues extended beyond a few individuals within ESS to other parts of ESS or the wider Compass Group of companies.
The Group settled all outstanding civil litigation against it, in relation to this matter, in October 2006 but litigation continues between competitors of ESS, IHC and other parties involved in UN procurement.
IHCs relationship with the UN and ESS was part of a wider investigation into UN procurement activity being conducted by the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, and with which the Group cooperated fully.
The current status of that investigation is uncertain and a matter for the US authorities.
Those investigators could have had access to sources unavailable to the Group, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer or Ernst & Young, and further information may yet emerge which is inconsistent with, or additional to, the findings of the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer investigation, which could have an adverse impact on the Group.
The Group has however not been contacted by, or received further requests for information from, the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York in connection with these matters since January 2006.
The Group has cooperated fully with the UN throughout.
In February 2007, the Groups Portuguese business, Eurest Portugal Sociedade Europeia Restaurantes LDA, was visited by the Portuguese Competition Authority PCA as part of an investigation into possible past breaches of competition law by the Group and other caterers in the sector.
The PCA investigation relates to a part of the Portuguese catering business which services mainly public sector contracts.
The Group is cooperating fully with the PCAs ongoing investigation.
Revenues of the Portuguese business for the year ended 30 September 2007 were 90 million r134 million.
It is likely that the investigation will take several months to complete and its outcome cannot be predicted at this point.
It is not currently possible to quantify any potential liability which may arise in respect of these matters.
The directors currently have no reason to believe that any potential liability that may arise would be material to the financial position of the Group.
The Group, through a number of its subsidiary undertakings, is, from time to time, party to various other legal proceedings or claims arising from its normal business.
Provisions are made as appropriate.
None of these proceedings is regarded as material litigation.
The Group has provided a guarantee to one of its joint venture partners over the level of profits which will accrue to them in future periods.
The maximum amount payable under this guarantee is 35 million, which would be payable in respect of the period from 1 July 2007 to 31 December 2010.
Based on the latest management projections, no liability is expected to arise in relation to this guarantee and accordingly, no provision has been recorded at 30 September 2007 2006: nil.
40 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Shareholder information Registrars and transfer office within the UK: 0906 843 3250 and on the More detailed information on this or similar Companys website: www.
activity can be found on the FSA website All matters relating to the administration of www.
shareholdings should be directed to Capita ShareGift Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Unsolicited mail Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, within the UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost is a free service for shareholders wishing to give The Company is legally obliged to make its 10 pence per minute plus network extras and shares to charitable causes.
It is particularly register of members available to the public.
from overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: email: useful for those shareholders who may wish to As a consequence of this some shareholders ssd@capitaregistrars.
dispose of a small quantity of shares where the might have received unsolicited mail.
UK market value makes it uneconomic to sell on a shareholders wishing to limit the amount Shareholders can register online to view commission basis.
Further information can be of such mail should write to the Mailing their Compass Group PLC shareholding obtained from ShareGift telephone within the Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 details using the Share Portal, a service offered UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
org UK shareholders may register online at accessed at www.
uk or request an Shareholders registering for the Share Portal application form by calling from within will require their investor code which is shown American Depositary Receipts ADRs the UK: 0845 703 4599. on share certificates and on the form of proxy The Company operates an ADR programme.
The service Identity theft protecting an Each ADR is equivalent to one Compass enables shareholders to do all of the following: investment Group PLC ordinary share and trades under the symbol CMPGY.
Further information can Criminals may steal shareholders personal check their shareholdings in Compass information putting a holding at risk.
be obtained from The Bank of New York Group PLC 24 hours a day: Mellon, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, register their email and mailing preference Advice on protecting a shareholding: Church Street Station, New York, NY 10286- post or electronic for future shareholder 1258, telephone: within the US toll free 1-888 mailings: Ensure certificates are kept in a safe place BNY-ADRs and from overseas 1 212 815 gain easy access to a variety of shareholder or hold shares electronically in CREST 3700: email: shareowners@bankofny.
com and information including indicative valuation via a nominee.
com and and payment instruction details: and Keep all correspondence from the www.
use the Internet to appoint a proxy to Registrars which shows a shareholder attend general meetings of Compass investor code in a safe place, or destroy Warning about unsolicited Group PLC.
investment contacts When changing address, inform the Electronic communications Many companies have become aware that Registrars.
If a letter from the Registrars is their shareholders have received unsolicited The Company can, at shareholders request, received regarding a change of address and telephone calls or correspondence concerning send shareholders an email notification each there has been no recent move, contact the investment matters.
These are typically from time a new shareholder report or other Registrars immediately.
The shareholder overseas based brokers who target UK shareholder communication is placed on its concerned may be a victim of identity theft.
shareholders offering to sell them what often website.
This enables shareholders to read Know when the dividends are paid.
turns out to be worthless or high risk shares in and or download the information at their Shareholders may wish to consider having US or UK investments.
Shareholders can still request paper their dividends paid directly into their bank advised to be very wary of any unsolicited copies of the documents if they so wish.
or building society account, both for the advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or convenience and the resulting reduction in offers of free company reports.
To encourage shareholders to convert to the risk of the cheque being intercepted or e-communications, the Company will arrange lost in the post.
To take advantage of this If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: for a sapling tree to be planted in the UK for dividend mandate facility, contact the each shareholder who chooses to receive all Registrars, telephone within the UK: Make sure you get the correct name of the future communications electronically.
The 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per person and organisation.
next opportunity for the Company to notify minute plus network extras and from Check that they are properly authorised shareholders electronically will be for the overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: or by the Financial Services Authority before Interim Report, to be published in June 2008. alternatively complete a form online at getting involved.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP using the Share Portal service.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list On changing bank or building society The Company has introduced a DRIP of unauthorised overseas firms who are account, inform the Registrars of the service, provided by Capita IRG Trustees targeting, or have targeted, UK investors details of the new account and respond to Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible and any approach from such organisations any letters the Registrars send about this.
shareholders to use the whole of their cash should be reported to the FSA so that this When buying or selling shares, shareholders dividend to buy additional shares in the list can be kept up to date and any other should seek to only deal with brokers Company, increasing their shareholding.
appropriate action can be considered.
If registered in their country of residence Additional information, including details of you deal with an unauthorised firm, you or the UK.
how to sign up, can be obtained from Capita would not be eligible to receive payment IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the under the Financial Services Compensation Financial calendar UK: 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10 pence per Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by minute plus network extras and from completing an online form at Annual General Meeting: overseas: 44 20 8639 3402: email: www.
Inform our Registrars by telephone within Results announcements: the UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence Half year May Share price information per minute plus network extras and from Full year late November early December overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: email: The current price of the Companys shares is Dividend payments: ssd@capitaregistrars.
available on Ceefax, Teletext, FTCityline Interim August operated by the Financial Times, telephone Final March 41 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007 Group at a glance Our marketplace Regional review at a glance Our marketplace North America Continental Europe Our aim is to achieve market leadership Developing our people Our strategy focuses on the For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid in the sectors and countries that we have and valuing diversity Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy expansion of the senior-living market.
Business & Industry Fine Dining Healthcare & Seniors Education Sports & Leisure Defence, Offshore Vending North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World Our vision is to be a world-class provider Delivering of contract foodservice and support services, renowned for our great people, our great service profitable and our great results.
