Remuneration Report Awards vest after three years subject to the achievement of Base Salary and Benefits 56. performance targets and approval of the Committee.
The Each Executive Director receives a salary which reflects his performance targets are based on achievement of real growth responsibilities, experience and performance and taking into in adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS, weighted consideration market salary level for similar roles.
Salaries 60 per cent, and adjusted diluted net asset value NAV, and benefits are reviewed annually in April.
Details of the weighted 40 per cent, over the three years between grant Directors remuneration are given on page 59. and vesting: Annual Incentive Plan the Plan Adjusted The Plan extends to all employees including the Executive Adjusted diluted Directors.
The Plan consists of a cash bonus payable based diluted NAV growth Vesting EPS growth Per share on the performance of the Group, the performance of the operating area of the individual and the performance of the Low Hurdle 20% 4.0% p. a.
Any payments made under the Plan to the Chief High hurdle 100% 11.0% p. a.
Executive, Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are at the discretion of and approved by the Committee.
Adjusted diluted EPS is used to reflect the importance of earnings for our shareholders whilst adjusted diluted NAV Performance is measured over the financial year and reflects the growth in value of SEGROs property assets.
payment is made after the financial year end.
For Executive Actual performance is initially calculated by the Finance Directors and the Chief Executive the principal financial Director and based on the figures for adjusted diluted EPS measure is the delivery of the annual budget.
The Plan also and adjusted diluted NAV included in the accounts.
These contains an element of reward for the achievement of figures are reviewed by the auditors and are then submitted individual objectives and for the attainment of environmental, to the Committee for approval.
Actual targets are not disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
Executive Directors are encouraged, as part of the Companys shareholding guidelines, to hold their LTIS shares for a three In respect of 2007, Executive Directors could earn a cash year period after vesting.
bonus of up to a maximum of 80 per cent of base salary if they met stringent performance criteria set by the In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Committee.
This bonus was based on Group profit adjusted Committee would have discretion to determine if any awards for one-off and certain other items 40 per cent, divisional vest and if so, over how many shares.
In exercising this performance 24 per cent and individual performance 16 per discretion the Committee would refer to current institutional cent.
The Chief Executive had the opportunity to earn a cash investor guidelines, the financial performance of the bonus of up to 100 per cent of base salary.
His bonus is based Company and the portion of the performance period elapsed.
on Group profit adjusted for one-off and certain other items New Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2008 LTIP 80 per cent and individual performance 20 per cent.
As a result of the growth and development of our business, Marshall Lees, who was based in the USA and who resigned our change to REIT status and the changes in the property from the Board as at 1 August 2007, had the opportunity of sector, the Committee, assisted by Watson Wyatt, conducted a earning a cash bonus of up to 100 per cent of salary, in line review of executive long-term share incentive arrangements.
with market conditions in the USA.
Following this review, it was decided that, subject to shareholder approval, a new plan, the 2008 LTIP, would be Long-Term Share Incentive Scheme the LTIS implemented.
The proposed 2008 LTIP reflects current The Committee believes that long-term incentives are an investor guidelines and best practice whilst encouraging our effective way to align the interests of shareholders and executives to maximise shareholder returns.
Earnings per reward long-term performance.
SEGRO has one long-term share will remain in the new plan.
A new measure of Total share incentive plan in operation, the LTIS, in which Executive Property Return will be introduced to more accurately reflect Directors and members of the Executive Committee our sector.
There is no current intention to make further awards under the existing LTIS arrangements, the last award Details of the proposed operation and the performance having been made in 2007. conditions applicable to any release of shares under the first grant of awards under the 2008 LTIP are provided in the Awards were made annually and were determined by an Companys Notice of Meeting for the 2008 AGM and a assessment of both corporate and individual performance.
resolution will be put to shareholders at that meeting to The maximum value of the annual award to the Chief approve the 2008 LTIP arrangements.
Subject to shareholder Executive was 175 per cent of salary and a maximum of 140 approval, awards will be made during 2008 under the 2008 per cent of salary for other executives.
granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIS in 2007 are set out in the table on page 60.
