Notes to the financial statements 47.
Lyon Vimercate Total Consideration paid is made up as follows: m m m Cash consideration paid for net assets 4.7 12.4 17.1 Expenses paid 0.4 0.2 0.6 Total consideration for net assets acquired 5.1 12.6 17.7 Settlement of intercompany loans 5.6 23.2 28.8 Settlement of bank borrowings 19.5 33.6 53.1 Acquisition cost 30.2 69.4 99.6 Less cash acquired 0.4 3.4 3.8 Acquisition cost per the cash flow 29.8 66.0 95.8 If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, the results of continuing operations would have been as follows: Continuing Pre-acquisition Group results Lyon Vimercate Total m m m m Revenue 342.8 1.5 2.7 347.0 Loss profit before tax 246.5 1.1 0.4 245.0 Tax 2.1 0.2 0.3 1.6 Loss profit after tax 244.4 0.9 0.1 243.4 The Group results include the post-acquisition results of Lyon and Vimercate.
The loss before tax of the entities acquired, since the date of acquisition to 31 December 2007, amounts to 0.4 million.
There were no recognised gains or losses in the period other than the profit attributable to shareholders.
SEGRO plc Independent Auditors Report to the members of SEGRO plc Annual Report 2007 We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial Basis of audit opinion 127. statements the financial statements of SEGRO plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to Remuneration Report to be audited.
These financial statements have been prepared under the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is statements, and of whether the accounting policies are described as having been audited.
appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might information and explanations which we considered necessary state to the Companys members those matters we are in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give required to state to them in an auditors report and for no reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Company and the Companys members as a body, for our other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial Opinion statements in accordance with applicable law and International In our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Responsibilities.
of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the and of its loss for the year then ended: part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in the parent company financial statements give a true and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
European Union as applied in accordance with the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the financial statements and the part of the Directors Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the We also report to you whether, in our opinion, information IAS Regulation: and given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report the information given in the Directors Report is consistent includes that information presented in the Business Review with the financial statements.
that is cross referred to the Directors Report.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to received all the information and explanations we require for comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss for the year Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we then ended.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Deloitte and Touche LLP Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors control procedures.
London, United Kingdom We read other information contained in the Annual Report as 5 March 2008 described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information outside the Annual Report.
