authority to expire at the conclusion of the i. the maximum number of Ordinary next Annual General Meeting or 15 months Shares of 25 pence each hereby Notice of from 14 February 2008 if earlier save that authorised to be purchased is the Company may before such expiry make 13,200,000 representing 10 per cent.
of annual general an offer or agreement which would or might the issued share capital of the require relevant securities to be allotted Company as at 30 September 2007 : after such expiry and the Directors may allot ii.
the minimum price, exclusive of meeting relevant securities in pursuance of such expenses, which may be paid for each offer or agreement as if the authority such Ordinary Share is 0.25: conferred hereby had not expired.
the maximum price, exclusive of Notice Is Hereby Given that the 11.
THAT, the Directors be and they are hereby expenses, which may be paid for each empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Twenty-Second Annual General such Ordinary Share is an amount 1985 Act to allot equity securities within the Meeting of Shaftesbury PLC the equal to not more than 5 per cent.
meaning of section 94 of the 1985 Act : above the average of the middle market Company will be held at Pegasus a. for cash pursuant to the authority quotations for such share as derived House, 37 43 Sackville Street, London conferred by Resolution 10: or from the Daily Official List of the W1S 3DL, on Thursday 14 February London Stock Exchange for the five b. by way of the sale of treasury shares 2008 at 12 noon for the following business days immediately preceding within the meaning of section 162A of purposes: the day on which the share is the 1985 Act, for cash, contracted to be purchased: as if, in either case, subsection 1 of section Ordinary Business iv.
unless previously renewed, varied or 89 of the 1985 Act did not apply to any such 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial revoked, the authority hereby conferred allotment provided that this power shall be statements for the year ended 30 shall expire at the conclusion of the limited to the allotment of equity securities: September 2007, and the reports of the next Annual General Meeting of the Directors and auditors.
i. in connection with a rights issue or Company or 15 months from 14 open offer or other issue or offer to 2.
To approve the report on Directors February 2008 if earlier: and ordinary shareholders other than Remuneration for the year ended 30 v. the Company may make a contract to the Company on the Company's September 2007. purchase its own shares under the Register of Members on a fixed 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year authority hereby conferred prior to the record date in proportion as nearly expiry of such authority which will or ended 30 September 2007 of 5.50p per as may be to the respective Ordinary Share payable on 22 February 2008 may be executed wholly or partly at the numbers of Ordinary Shares of 25 expiry of such authority, and may make to holders of Ordinary Shares registered at pence each held by them subject the close of business on 1 February 2008. a purchase of its own shares in to such exclusion or other pursuance of any such contract 4.
To re-elect P J Manser as a Director of the arrangement as the Directors may Company.
deem necessary or expedient in 13.
THAT the Company and any company which relation to fractional entitlements is or becomes a subsidiary of the Company 5.
To re-elect B Bickell as a Director of the or legal or practical problems during the period to which this resolution Company.
under the laws of, or requirements relates be and is hereby authorised 6.
To re-elect A W MacDonald as a Director of of any recognised regulatory body pursuant to Section 366 of the Companies the Company.
or any stock exchange, in any Act 2006 the 2006 Act to make: territory: and 7.
To re-elect T J C Welton as a Director of the i. donations to EU political organisations Company.
otherwise than pursuant to not exceeding 100,000 and subparagraph i above up to an 8.
to incur EU political expenditure not aggregate nominal value of as audit ors of the Company from the end of exceeding 100,000: 1,650,000 consisting of 6,600,000 the Meeting until the end of the next provided that any such donations and or EU Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each, general meeting at which financial political expenditure made or incurred by statements are laid before the Company.
and shall expire at the conclusion of the next the Company does not exceed an aggregate Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 9.
To authorise the Directors to agree the of 100,000 in the period ending at the months from 14 February 2008 if earlier save remuneration of the auditors.
conclusion of the Company's next Annual that the Company may before such expiry make General Meeting or 15 months from 14 an offer or agreement which would or might February 2008 if earlier: provided further require equity securities to be allotted after such SPECIAL BUSINESS that the Company shall not use the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following expiry and the Directors may allot equity authority granted other than in continuation securities in pursuance of such offer or resolutions as ordinary resolutions in the case of of its business activities and that the resolutions 10 and 13 and as special resolutions agreement as if the power conferred hereby had Company's policy of making no direct not expired.
This power is in substitution of all in the case of resolutions 11 and 12: contributions to political parties shall unexercised existing powers given for the 10. remain unchanged.
THAT, in substitution for all previous purposes of section 95 1 of the 1985 Act.
authorities pursuant to section 80 of the 12.
"THAT the Company is hereby unconditionally Companies Act 1985 the ""1985 Act"", which By Order of the Board and generally authorised to make market are hereby revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant purchases as defined in section 163 3 of Penny Thomas the 1985 Act of Ordinary Shares of 25 pence thereto, the Directors be and they are Secretary hereby generally and unconditionally each in the capital of the Company provided 21 December 2007 that: authorised in accordance with section 80 of the 1985 Act to exercise all powers of the Pegasus House Company to allot relevant securities as 37 43 Sackville Street defined in section 80 2 of the 1985 Act up to London W1S 3DL an aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000 consisting of 44,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each, such 86 AnnualReport2007 Notes: 1."
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote made using the CREST service to be valid, the instead of him.
"A proxy need not be a member of appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy the Company."
"If you wish to appoint someone Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in other than the Chairman, please insert the name accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and of your appointed proxy holder in the space must contain the information required for such provided."
If necessary, please enter in the box next instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
to the proxy holders name, the number of shares The message, regardless of whether it constitutes in relation to which you authorise them to act as the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to your proxy.
If left blank, they will act in respect of the instruction given to a previously appointed your entire shareholding.
A form of proxy for use proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so by members is enclosed.
as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy 2.
Multiple proxy votes: To appoint more than one appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
proxy, you should photocopy the proxy form.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken Please indicate in the box next to the proxy to be the time as determined by the timestamp holders name, the number of shares in relation to applied to the message by the CREST Applications which you authorise them to act as your proxy.
Host from which the issuer's agent is able to Please also indicate by marking the box on the retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the proxy form if the proxy instruction is one of manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any multiple instructions being given.
All proxy forms change of instructions to proxies appointed must be signed and should be returned to the through CREST should be communicated to the Registrars in the same envelope.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a CREST members and, where applicable, their member from attending and voting in person at CREST sponsors or voting service providers the Meeting.
should note that CRESTCo does not make 4.
Forms of proxy must be lodged with the Registrar available special procedures in CREST for any not less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the 5.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, responsibility of the CREST member concerned to specifies that only those shareholders registered take or, if the CREST member is a CREST in the Register of Members of the Company as at personal member or sponsored member or has 6.00 p. m. on 12 February 2008 shall be entitled to appointed a voting service provider s, to procure attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the that his CREST sponsor or voting service number of shares registered in their name at that provider s take s such action as shall be time.
Changes to entries on the Register of necessary to ensure that a message is Members after 6.00 p. m. on 12 February 2008 transmitted by means of the CREST system by any shall be disregarded in determining the rights of particular time.
In this connection, CREST any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
members and, where applicable, their CREST 6.
The Register of Directors' Interests in the sponsors or voting service providers are referred, Company kept under section 809 of the 2006 Act in particular, to those sections of the CREST and copies of Directors contracts of service may Manual concerning practical limitations of the be inspected at the registered office and place of CREST system and timings.
Annual General Meeting of the Company during The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy normal business hours on weekdays public Instruction in the circumstances set out in holidays excepted from the date of this notice Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities until the conclusion of the Annual General Regulations 2001.
The Vote Withheld option on the Form of Proxy 7.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for is provided to enable a member to abstain on any re-election are set out on page 43 of the Annual particular resolution.
It should be noted that an Report.
abstention is not a vote in law and will not be 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or counted in the calculation of the proportion of proxies through the CREST electronic proxy votes for or against a particular resolution.
appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 February 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Notice of annual general meeting AnnualReport2007 87
