Resolution 12 Purchase of own shares Resolution 13 Political donations This resolution authorises the Board to make This resolution, which will be proposed as a Explanatory special resolution, seeks authority for the donations under Section 366 of the 2006 Act.
Any donations to political organisations or political Directors to purchase the Companys own shares.
notes to notice The Directors are of the opinion that it would be expenditure by a company in excess of an aggregate of 5,000 must be authorised by the advantageous for the Company to be in a position to purchase its own shares through the London Companys shareholders.
There is no present of annual intention to make cash donations to any political Stock Exchange, should market conditions and price justify such action.
The Company as part of its normal business activity may wish to have contact with would enable the Company to purchase up to a general maximum of 13,200,000 Ordinary Shares, being political parties to ensure that they are aware of the key business issues affecting its business.
of the issued ordinary share capital meeting on 30 November 2007 the latest practicable date Under the 2006 Act, the definition of political expenditure is extremely wide and may be prior to the publication of this document, with a stated upper limit on the price payable which construed as covering such areas of the Companys normal business activities.
It is reflects the requirements of the Listing Rules of Resolution 10 Authority to issue shares the Financial Services Authority.
Purchases would therefore considered appropriate that a resolution This resolution authorises the Board, for a period be put to shareholders in general terms.
The only be made after the most careful of 15 months from 14 February 2008 or to the end consideration, where the Directors believed that Company will disclose in its annual report, in of the next Annual General Meeting whichever is compliance with the 2006 Act, any expenditure or an increase in earnings or net assets per share the earlier, to allot ordinary shares up to an would result and where purchases were, in the donations in excess of 200 which is within the aggregate nominal value of 11,000,000, ambits of the definitions of the 2006 Act.
opinion of the Directors, in the best interests of consisting of 44,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25 the Company and its shareholders.
The Directors pence each and which represents approximately consider that it is prudent to obtain the proposed 33 per cent.
of the total ordinary share capital in authority, although the Board does not have any issue on 30 November 2007 the last practicable current intention to use this authority.
date prior to the publication of this document.
The Company does not currently hold any shares The total number of options to subscribe for as treasury shares within the meaning of Section equity shares that are outstanding on 30 162A of the 1985 Act Treasury shares.
Save in November 2007 the latest practicable date prior respect of the issue of new Ordinary Shares to the publication of this document is 2,557,527. pursuant to the share incentive schemes, the This represents 1.89 per cent.
of the issued share Directors currently have no present intention to capital at that date.
If the Company were to allot relevant securities but the Directors believe purchase the maximum number of ordinary it to be in the interests of the Company for the shares permitted pursuant to the authority Board to be granted this authority to enable the under this resolution, then these options would Board to take advantage of appropriate represent 2.10 per cent.
of the reduced issued opportunities which may arise in the future.
share capital excluding any treasury shares.
Resolution 11 Disapplication of pre-emption rights The 1985 Act permits companies to hold shares This resolution, which will be proposed as a acquired by way of market purchases as special resolution, seeks to disapply the predescribed above in treasury, rather than having emption right provisions of Section 89 of the 1985 to cancel them.
The Company would consider Act in respect of the allotment of equity securities holding any of its own shares that it purchased including a sale of treasury shares pursuant to pursuant to the authority conferred by this rights issues and other pre-emptive issues or resolution as treasury shares.
This would give the offers and in respect of other issues of equity Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares securities including sales of treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and would provide the for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of Company with additional flexibility in the 1,650,000, being approximately 5 per cent.
of management of its capital base.
the issued ordinary share capital on 30 November No dividends would be paid on shares whilst held 2007 the last practicable date prior to the publication in treasury and no voting rights would attach to of this document.
If approved by shareholders, treasury shares.
this power will expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the end of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising their authority pursuant to this disapplication, but, as in previous years, they consider it desirable that they have the flexibility to act in the best interests of the Company when opportunities arise.
There is no current intention to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys share capital on this basis over 3 years in line with ABI guidelines.
88 AnnualReport2007 This Report was printed by Beacon Press using their pureprint environmental print technology.
The printing inks are made using vegetable based oils.
The electricity was generated from renewable sources and 90% of the waste associated with this product will be recycled.
Beacon Press is registered to environmental management system ISO 14001 and EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme.
It is printed on paper made from Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulps from well managed forests.
The paper mill is registered to environmental management systems ISO 14001 and EMAS Design SG Design | Photography Simon Armstrong | Print Beacon Press Annual Report 2007 Shaftesbury PLC Pegasus House, 37 43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL Tel: 020 7333 8118 Fax: 020 7333 0660 email shaftesbury@shaftesbury.
