Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Market Directors Values, as at 30 September 2007, of the freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary Companies, responsibilities subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports dated 16 November 2007, were as follows: The Directors are responsible for Freehold 1,227,480,000 properties One billion, two hundred preparing the Annual Report, the and twenty-seven million, Directors Remuneration Report and four hundred and eighty the financial statements in accordance thousand pounds with applicable law and regulations.
Long leasehold 84,815,000 Company law requires the Directors properties Eighty-four million, eight hundred and fifteen to prepare financial statements for thousand pounds each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Total 1,312,295,000 One billion, three hundred group and parent company financial and twelve million, two statements in accordance with hundred and ninety-five International Financial Reporting thousand pounds Standards IFRSs as adopted by A long lease is one with an unexpired term in the European Union.
The financial excess of 50 years.
statements are required by law to The contents of our Reports are confidential to give a true and fair view of the state Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden of affairs of the Company and the Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Group and of the profit or loss of the Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited and Shaftesbury Group for that period.
Charlotte Street Limited, for the specific purpose to which they refer and are for their use only.
In preparing those financial statements, the Consequently, and in accordance with current Directors are required to: practice, no responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the whole or any part of - select suitable accounting policies and then the contents of our Reports or this summary apply them consistently: report.
Before our Reports or this summary - make judgements and estimates that are report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or reasonable and prudent: referred to, in any document, circular or - state that the financial statements comply with statement, the valuers written approval as to the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: form and context of such publication or - prepare the financial statements on the going disclosure must first be obtained.
For the concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to avoidance of doubt such approval is required presume that the Group will continue in business, whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung are in which case there should be supporting referred to by name and whether or not the assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
contents of our Reports or this summary report are combined with others.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS Director The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited accuracy at any time the financial position of the International Property Advisers Company and the Group and to enable them to One Curzon Street ensure that the financial statements and the London W1A 5PZ Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirmation in accordance with Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 is contained within the Directors Report on page 47.
