Section 6 Additional Annual Report and 91 Workspace Group PLC information Accounts 2007 Glossary of terms Adjusted NAV per share is NAV excluding deferred tax on revaluation NI on share options is the national insurance charge expected to surpluses and capital allowances as existed prior to conversion to a be paid on the exercise of share options, as calculated by the REIT and the fair value of derivative financial instruments net of tax.
Black-Scholes model in accordance with IFRS2.
Adjusted net assets are shareholders funds excluding deferred tax Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total on revaluation surpluses as existed prior to conversion to a REIT, net lettable area excluding land used for open storage.
capital allowances and the fair value of derivative financial instruments net of tax.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash Comparator IPD Index is a benchmark index computed by IPD consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups of comparable properties in comparable locations to those held external valuers.
Other Items in the Income Statement include profits and losses Core portfolio like-for-like portfolio are those properties that together with their related taxation on sales of investment have been held throughout the period and which are not subject to properties and items of a non trading, non cash nature such as: significant improvement or refurbishment works.
valuation adjustments arising from the fair valuing of investment properties and derivative financial instruments: adjustments arising Diluted NAV per share is NAV adjusted for the effect of those from the treatment of head lease payments as interest: and certain shares potentially issuable under convertible loan stock or employee adjustments arising from the estimation of the cost of employee share schemes.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by Profit before tax PBT is income less all expenditure other the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted and Adjusted EPS are determined as set out under NAV.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT is a listed public company that Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust created by the fulfils the qualification criteria set by FA 2006 106 and 107 and has Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
notified HMRC that it wishes to convert.
REITs pay no corporation tax on their property income see page 22.
EPRA NAV is the definition of net asset value as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association.
Rent per sq ft is the current net rent divided by the occupied area.
Equivalent Yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce valuers, where the net rent is below the current estimated rental based upon the timing of the income received.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space and expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent, which on the Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is a new letting or rent review.
calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
SEE means Social Ethical and Environmental matters.
The Group produces a separate SEE report.
The most recent report is entitled Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or by the Sustainability Report 2007. portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Small and Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs are those businesses Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff of less than 50.
Workspace customers are SME businesses with staffing of up to 20.
IPD compile various return benchmarks including the IPD March Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained by a Universe benchmark, a comparison of all property funds: and an IPD shareholder calculated by combining both share price movements Comparator Index, a comparison of London office and industrial and dividend receipts.
properties similar in profile to those held in the Groups portfolio.
Trading Operations earnings PBT etc is that element of Like-for-like see core portfolio.
earnings PBT etc that arises from trading activity alone.
It therefore excludes Other Items above.
Market rental values see ERV.
Valuation Surplus and growth rate is measured as the valuation Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds, divided by the surplus for the period divided by the total value of the portfolio number of shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held immediately before revaluation.
Net rents are current rents excluding any contracted increases and after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
Section 6 Additional Annual Report and 92 Workspace Group PLC information Accounts 2007 Publications index Workspace publishes, both on its website and in hard copy, a wide range of material to assist customers, investors and other interested parties.
These are the principal documents.
Should you need assistance in accessing any of this material then contact the Company Secretary at the companys registered office details on page 68.
Section in Annual Report Title of supporting documents Description Section 1 Driving our business forward Section 2 Leading in a Customer Charter Our pledge to our customers growth market Businessspacesearch whatweoffer customercharter Small Business Links Information for small businesses on Tradelinkhome customerinfo businessadvice where to get help Corporate Responsibility Statements Bi-annual policy reports with annual Investorshome  updates on achievement against targets Refurbishments Regenerations and Acquisitions Details of properties under refurbishment  or regeneration and acquisition requirements TradeLink Enabling communication, promotion Tradelinkhome and trade throughout the Workspace customer community Changing Environments Book tracking history of a selection of Workspace properties Dynamic Environments Book describing the activities of a range of Workspace SME customers Changing Spaces Brochure detailing our regeneration schemes Beginners Guide to Finding the Right Business Space Self-help guide to finding accommodation for SMEs My Life, My Work, My Space Book documenting experiences of our customers in their own words Property Information Particulars for each Workspace  property including description, photos, virtual tours and maps Customer Survey Summary 07 Presentation of the findings of the Investorshome  annual Workspace Customer Survey 2007 Section 3 A clear strategy REIT circular to Shareholders Company Extraordinary General Meeting for growth Investorshome  Circular distributed prior to REITconversion Sustainability Report 2007 Report which details Workspaces Sustainabilityhome approach to sustainable practice allied to The London Plan Section 4 Financial review Analysts Analysts forecasts and accounts Investorshome analystssummmary Risk Management Assessment of risks and Workspaces Investorshome riskmanagement approach to them Annual Accounts Archived Workspace Annual Report Investorshome  and Accounts Quarterly Statements Archived Workspace Quarterly Report Investorshome  and Accounts Section5 Shareholder reporting Corporate Governance Self assessment of compliance with Investorshome corporategovernance 2003 code Board Committees Terms of Reference Approved Committee Terms of Reference Investorshome corporategovernance for Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Board Delegations Corporate Governance Audit of Investorshome corporategovernance Compliance and Matters Reserved for Full Board Section 6 Additional Press Releases Archive of Workspace press releases information Investorshome RNSnews Published document Published on website workspacegroup.
co. uk An indicative route to the relevant web page is given in orange text Key investor publications: 1.
The Beginners Guide to finding the right business space 2.
This annual report is printed on Take 2 Offset, which contains 100% fide-inked pulp from post-consumer recycled waste.
This product is biodegradable, 100% recyclable and elemental chlorine free.
Vegetable based inks were used during production.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Designed by Carnegie Orr a Workspace Group customer 020 7610 6140 Workspace Group PLC Magenta House 85 Whitechapel Road London E1 1DU T 020 7247 7614 F 020 7247 0157 W workspacegroup.
co. uk @ If you require information regarding business space in London, call 020 7247 7614 or visit workspacegroup.
