Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 74 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 Board and committee reports Board of directors The Board has established Remuneration and Audit Committees, each of which consists exclusively of the three independent nonThe Board of the Company comprises four executive directors a Chief Executive, a Finance Director, an Operations Director and a executive directors.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Tony Hales, the Chairman of the Company and also includes the three Property Director, whose responsibilities are described on page 67 and four non-executive directors, three of whom are independent other non-executive directors.
The Terms of Reference of these committees are available from the Company Secretary or may be of management under the 2003 Code and free from any personal business or other relationship with the Group.
The fourth nonaccessed through the Investor Relations area of the Groups website see page 92.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees will be executive director is the Chairman.
attending the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
All director appointments, both executive and non-executives, are recruited through external search advisers by the Nominations The Board has nominated directors with specific responsibilities in Committee.
Each director brings a complementary range of skills and experience to the Board.
Tony Hales, as Chairman, is not key business areas.
These extend to social, environmental and ethical issues: health and safety: staff equal opportunities, remuneration, regarded as independent under the terms of the 2003 Combined Code.
He brings an extensive background as a former Chief Executive training and development : customers and suppliers: community involvement and investor relations.
These nominated directors report of a FTSE 100 Company, non-executive experience in various companies and public agencies as well as expertise in marketing and regularly to the Board.
brand development, and in managing a fide-centralised property portfolio.
Rupert Dickinson is the most recently appointed nonThe full Board of Directors meets on a fixed bi-monthly frequency with further ad hoc meetings as necessary.
Regular quarterly executive director August 2006.
He has extensive experience in the property sector, is currently Chief Executive of Grainger plc a FTSE meetings are held of the Audit Committee, whilst the Remuneration Committee has at least four fixed meetings a year.
The following table 250 property company and is particularly knowledgeable about the residential sector in London, a key issue for Workspace in the future shows the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held in 2006 07 and the number attended by the respective members.
mixed use redevelopment of a number of its sites.
John Bywater was appointed in June 2004 and also has extensive direct property and In addition to these formal meetings, directors meet alone and with advisers to conduct the business of these Committees as required.
development expertise, as well as experience in the intensive management of retail centres.
Bernard Cragg joined the Board in Board meetings held and attended 2003.
He has a wide general management experience.
However, as a Chartered Accountant, again with FTSE 100 background, he was Independent Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Meetings recruited as Chairman of the Audit Committee as he brought recent relevant financial experience to the Group.
It is the Companys policy From March 2006 to have at least one non-executive director who is a member of a to March 2007 recognised accounting body on the Groups Audit Committee.
During Number held 8 4 3 4 6 the year, on the retirement of Chris Pieroni, Bernard Cragg became the designated Senior Independent Director.
A Hales 8 3 2 All directors have written contracts and in the case of non-executive H Platt 8 directors these specify those corporate matters that are reserved for M Carragher 7 decision by the full Board, together with the rights of individual J P Marples 8 directors to seek independent professional advice and services paid R M Taylor 8 for by the Company.
Committees of the Board share these rights of access to independent advice.
All directors also have access to the J Bywater 7 3 3 4 6 advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to B Cragg 7 4 3 4 6 the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
R Dickinson 2 1 1 1 2 Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a appointed August 2006 Board matter.
Executive directors have one-year rolling contracts of C Pieroni 2 1 2 3 3 employment whilst non-executive directors are appointed by the full resigned August 2006 Board for a term not exceeding three years terminable by six months meetings were, for at least part of the meeting, non-executive notices 12 months in the case of the Chairman by either party at any directors met in the absence of executive directors.
Details of the directors contract terms are given on page 84. indicates not a member of that Committee.
All directors have induction training on joining the Board including Chairman and Chief Executive briefings on the Companys business and visits to estates.
Resources The Chairmanship of the Company is drawn from the non-executive are provided for the continued training and development of all directors.
There are clearly defined roles for the Chairman and Chief directors.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, securing its effectiveness, setting its agenda, ensuring compliance The non-executive directors meet at least annually without the with the Groups strategy and that it is regularly reviewed.
He is not executive directors and on such other occasions as deemed involved in an executive capacity in any of the Groups activities.
effectiveness of the Chairman is reviewed by the Board annually.
Board sub-committee and executive board responsibilities The Chief Executive is responsible for the delivery of the strategic and The Board retains full and effective control over the Groups activities.
financial objectives of the Group.
It has reserved a number of matters for its exclusive consideration and approval.
These include but are not restricted to the Company Secretary establishment and constitution of Board Committees, identification of All directors have access to the advice and services of the strategic objectives, approval of business plans, budgets and financial Company Secretary.
reports, acquisition of properties valued 5m or more and significant capital projects, provision of guarantees and treasury arrangements, stock issuance and risk management policies.
More routine day-today matters are currently delegated by the Board to an Executive Board comprising the executive directors.
Full details of matters reserved for the full Board are provided on the Groups website see page 92.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 75 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Audit Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for the selection The Audit Committee, chaired by Bernard Cragg, a Chartered and appointment of all directors, and taking an overview of the Accountant, meets at least quarterly, with the external auditors, general staffing and management of the business including Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in attendance by succession planning.
At least twice a year, the external auditors attend part of the Audit Committee meeting without the presence of management All executive appointments in the Group are open to internal for confidential and independent discussions and have direct access candidates as well as being subject to external recruitment.
In this to the Chairman of the Committee at their discretion.
The Audit manner, the Group can, whilst offering staff the opportunity for Committee reviews the annual accounts, the preliminary financial progression, ensure that where no natural internal candidates results announcement and other financial statements prior to present themselves positions are covered by quality candidates.
submission to the Board, considering the compliance with accounting These principles apply to senior management and Board standards, and that disclosures are fair, balanced and appropriate.
However, it is a key objective over time of the It is pleasing to note that the Groups 2006 Annual Report and Company that each director should have one or more members Accounts was short-listed for an award at the of staff whose skills and abilities could make them suitable for  Building Public Trust awards.
progression over time to the Board.
The Committee also considers the requirement for, scope and extent During the year the Committee conducted a search for a new nonof an internal audit programme.
It reviews the effectiveness of the executive director to replace Chris Pieroni, who having served six external audit and makes recommendations to the Board on the years, retired in 2006.
In addition a search was completed for a new appointment and remuneration of the auditors.
The Audit Committee Finance Director, following an indication from Mark Taylor that he considers all papers presented to the Board on Risk Assessment and wished to retire during 2007 08.
In line with company policy, internal check and control and receives reports from the assistance was obtained from executive search agencies specialising management Risk Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee in these fields.
Candidates were shortlisted and interviewed by the reports to the Board on matters discussed at Audit Committee Nominations Committee and the Chief Executive.
The Groups auditors report to the Committee annually selection met with other members of the Board and were introduced confirming the independence of all staff concerned with the audit to the Groups business before final selections and appointments engagement.
The Committee reviews the performance of the were made.
external auditors annually, including consideration of the auditors effectiveness and objectivity.
During the year the Audit Committee I am pleased to say that following the searches, two appointments also reviewed its own effectiveness and reported to the Board on that were made: detailed review which was favourable.
Rupert Dickinson Non-executive Director Engagement of the Groups auditors on non-audit activities is not Graham Clemett Group Finance Director specifically excluded.
However, such work is ordinarily only awarded following competitive tender and careful analysis by the Audit In addition, during the year the Committee conducted a search for Committee of the potential for conflict arising as a result of the a new post of Development Director.
Angus Boag was duly appointed appointment.
The Board considers that in certain circumstances, for to take up his post in June 2007 and to join the Executive Board.
Full example where accountants reports are required in the context of a biographies of these three new appointments are given on page 67. circular to shareholders, the Groups auditors may be better qualified to issue such a report than another third party.
The Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the proposed appointment reappointment reviews the level of audit fees for their adequacy and the magnitude of Messrs Dickinson, Bywater and Marples and Ms Carragher and of other fees relative to the audit fee.
recommended their appointment reappointment to the Board.
In addition, during the year the Committee looked at succession, The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of internal controls leadership and the continuing organisation and development of the require that the Board reviews all controls including operational, business.
This showed that the Group is resilient in the case of any compliance and risk management as well as financial controls.
single executive departure with adequate short-term cover in The Board has performed this review on a regular basis during the all positions.
year and up to the date of approval of this report.
This process is monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Board has considered the requirements of the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules and A J Hales implemented a programme for the identification, reporting and Chairman of the Nominations Committee management of risks as advised by the Combined Code.
The Board 11 June 2007 is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As part of this review process, there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and in the case of those categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to ensure the necessary remedial action is taken.
The internal control and check system is designed to identify and manage risks, rather than eliminate them and as such it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The joint venture, Workspace Glebe Limited, is not dealt with as part of the Group.
The Company has an established framework of controls which, inter alia, include: a Financial reporting There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results and cash flows are reported monthly and compared with budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year.
The Company reports to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
In addition to these controls the Group operates a range of operational reporting systems to monitor its business on a day-to-day basis, and has a comprehensive monthly Key Performance Indicator KPI report covering key business issues.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 76 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 b Investment appraisal Report of the Remuneration Committee The Company has clearly-defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
The Board is advised in this area by a Remuneration Committee These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review comprised wholly of independent non-executive directors of the procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements Company John Bywater Committee Chairman : Bernard Cragg where investment or development properties are being acquired.
The Chairman of the Company Tony Hales Post-investment appraisals are performed for major investments and Chief Executive Harry Platt are invited as appropriate to attend both acquisitions and major works on owned property.
meetings of the Committee but play no part in discussions concerning their own packages.
c Internal Control The Committee, has once again during the year considered carefully The Committee is required annually to consider and review all the Groups internal control and check procedures.
The Group does aspects of the Executive Directors employment, performance and not have an internal audit function.
Since the Group invests in remuneration and the Companys policies on these matters and investment properties let on fixed terms, risks associated with its to make recommendations to the full Board.
The Committee also assets and revenues are not high.
The Board considers that the examines and discusses with Executive Directors how policies here control systems operated in the identification of risks, management are aligned with human resources policies in the Company as a of these risks and checking of compliance should reduce the risk of whole, and particularly those for senior management outside the error, fraud or failure to a sufficiently low level that does not warrant Board.
Responsibility in these areas rests with the Executive the cost of an internal audit function.
The Board continues to monitor Directors and a separate report on this is given on page 16. the Groups activities to ensure the continued validity of its internal The Committee does not make recommendations on the control arrangements.
remuneration of non-executive directors, which is a matter reserved solely for the full Board.
d Whistleblowing The Group has established and communicated a mechanism for The Remuneration Committee takes independent professional advice whistleblowing.
Staff wishing to express concerns over any matter from time to time from the Investment Property Databank IPD, which they feel unable to discuss with their line management should Norton Rose and other consultants appointed by the Committee raise these with the Chief Executive, or where the matter concerns in order to carry out its duties.
It has recently appointed Kepler an Executive Director, the Chairman.
All calls will be reported to the Associates to perform a review of Board and Executive remuneration Audit Committee.
Over the year one issue was raised through this arrangements.
The Group subscribes to the Monks Partnership an procedure.
The matter was investigated and no frauds, errors or advisory service of  LLP for the provision weaknesses detected.
of salary survey information on senior executives.
The remuneration policy for the Board is considered both in the wider context of the e Risk Management market and in terms of the remuneration structure operated within The Board regularly reviews the Groups activities with a view to the Group.
IPD has benchmarked the performance of the Groups identifying all sources of risk.
A Risk Committee comprising a Board property portfolio for more than ten years.
Norton Rose, as the Director and representatives from senior management reviews all Groups legal adviser, provides services both in the context of risks facing the Group, prioritises them every six months, and transactions and wider commercial matters.
Monks Partnership ensures processes are in place to review each issue raised.
It reports provide no other service to the Group.
All consultant advisers are half-yearly to the Audit Committee.
A more detailed assessment of considered by the Committee to be independent.
Risk Management is on page 69 with detailed risk assessments available on the Groups website see page 92.
John Bywater Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Bernard Cragg 11 June 2007 Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 June 2007
