Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 39 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2007 Directors responsibilities The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the directors in relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the Company.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: 2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained: and 4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
The applicable accounting standards referred to in 3 above are: a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and implemented in the UK for the Group.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and, in that context, to have proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
