Company independent auditors report Company balance sheet at 31 December 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Croda International Plc 2007 2006 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December Note m m 2007 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements Fixed assets have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors Tangible assets D 2.1 1.6 remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Investments Subsidiary undertakings E 438.8 415.2 We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 Associated undertaking F 1.6 1.6 December 2007.
Other F 0.6 0.6 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 443.1 419.0 The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United KingdomAccounting Standards United Kingdom Current assets  Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Debtors G 12.4 28.0 Cash at bank and in hand 36.4 34.6 Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report Financial assets I 0.4 0.8 to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards onAuditing UK 49.2 63.4 and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the CompaniesAct 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept Creditors or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Falling due within one year H 93.2 71.1 may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Net current liabilities 44.0 7.7 We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether Creditors the parent company financial statements and the part of the  report to be audited have been properly Falling due after one year H 258.2 260.8 prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the directors Net assets 140.9 150.5 report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and financial review that is cross referred from the business review section of the directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Capital and reserves directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Share premium account K 93.3 93.3 remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Reserves K 32.5 42.1 We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 140.9 150.5 company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the financial review, the corporate governance statement and the safety health and environmental report.
We consider the implications for our report if we Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 18 February 2008. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion Martin Flower Sean Christie We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards onAuditing UK and Ireland issued by theAuditing Chairman Group Finance Director Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally AcceptedAccounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct 1985: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 22 February 2008 72 Company independent auditors report Company balance sheet 73
