Notice of Eleventh Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have already sold or otherwise transferred all of your Dairy Crest shares, please send this document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Eleventh Annual General the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share Meeting of the Company will be held at the Chartered is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on Thursday 19 July 2007 at 11.00am for the following purposes: the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than Ordinary business 5% above the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys annual accounts for the year in the Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official ended 31 March 2007, together with the directors report and auditors List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of report on those accounts.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the 31 March 2007. next Annual General Meeting of the Company except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 before such time and which will or may be executed wholly or partly of 16.2 pence per share.
To re-elect Mr S M D Oliver as a director of the Company.
That the Companys articles of association be amended by deleting in their entirety article 138 Manner of Communications, article 139 5.
To re-elect Mr A S N Murray as a director of the Company.
Service of documents and information on members, article 140 Notice by advertisement and article 141 Evidence of service and by replacing 6.
To elect Mr M N Oakes as a director of the Company.
the said articles with revised articles the full text of which, together with minor consequential amendments to articles 1, 4, 65 and 66, are set 7.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, to hold office from out in the Explanatory notes.
the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the members, and to 11.
That the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of the authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Companys articles of association to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash be renewed for the period Special business from the date of the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will next Annual General Meeting of the Company and for that period the be proposed in the case of resolution 8, as an ordinary resolution and, section 89 amount is 1,655,022. in the case of resolutions 9, 10 and 11 as special resolutions: Ordinary resolutions 8.
That the authority conferred on the directors by article 4 B of the Companys articles of association to exercise all powers of the Company By order of the Board to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act be renewed for the period from the date R J Newton Secretary of the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual 8 June 2007 General Meeting of the Company and for that period the section 80 amount is 10,923,000.
Registered Office: Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Special resolutions 9.
That, pursuant to article 41 of the Companys articles of association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 13,240,169 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 85 Explanatory notes Notes shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled or vote at the meeting.
to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Individuals will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting only if their own name appears on the share register or, where the shares are 2.
You may use the form of proxy enclosed with this Notice to appoint a held in a different trading or registration name, on production of written proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
To be effective, the form of evidence of their authority to act as that shareholders representative.
proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a certified copy of A partnership the name of which is entered in the register of members such authority must reach the offices of the Companys registrar, Lloyds may, by any two persons purporting to be partners in the partnership, TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LA not authorise a person to act as its representative at the meeting.
A company less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion or other institution may by prior written authorisation confirm the and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from appointment of a corporate representative to attend the meeting on attending and voting in person at the meeting.
Such a representative shall be entitled to exercise the same rights as an individual member in respect of the shares to which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the the authorisation relates.
Any company or partnership appointing CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting a representative to attend the meeting is requested to notify the and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in Companys registrar of such appointment in writing not less than the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or 5.
Only individual shareholders whose names appear on the register, voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action their proxies or representatives duly authorised in the above manner on their behalf.
will be permitted to attend and vote at the meeting.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST 6.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required this Notice until 19 July 2007, and at the Chartered Accountants Hall, for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ from 10:45 am on 19 July 2007 regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to until the conclusion of the Meeting: an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the i all directors service contracts other than contracts expiring or issuers agent Lloyds TSB Registrars by the time stated above for the determinable within one year by the Company without payment receipt of forms of proxy.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be of compensation : and taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers ii the register of interests of directors and their families in shares agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the of the Company.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the Resolution 1 appointee through other means.
The directors of the Company have a duty to present, to shareholders in general meeting, the annual accounts together with the directors report CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or and the report of the auditors.
The auditors report can be found on voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make pages 80 to 81. available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation Resolution 2 to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the As required by the Act, the Board has presented its Directors CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a remuneration report to shareholders in the Annual Report, which may CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a be found on pages 28 to 35.
This report gives details of the directors voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2007 and sets out the service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure Companys overall policy on directors remuneration.
that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where As also required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are 2002, the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual relevant parts of the Directors remuneration report and their report concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
In compliance with the Act, shareholders are invited to approve the Directors remuneration report.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders Resolution 3 appearing in the register of members as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 17 July The directors recommend that a final dividend of 16.2 pence per share 2007 the specified time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the be paid on 8 August 2007 to shareholders on the register on 29 June meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at 2007.
Payment of the final dividend will bring the total dividend for that time.
Changes to the register of members after the specified time the year ended 31 March 2007 to 22.9 pence per share.
86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 Resolutions 4, 5 and 6 Any documents or information to be sent or supplied by or to the The articles of association specify that up to one third of the directors Company may be sent or supplied in hard copy form, in electronic must retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
This year form or by means of a website to the extent permitted by the Acts Mr S M D Oliver, Mr D J Dugdale and Mr A S N Murray retire by and these articles.
rotation and Mr S M D Oliver and Mr A S N Murray are seeking re-election.
In accordance with Corporate Governance requirements 139 Service of documents and information on members and having completed nine years on the Board, Mr S M D Oliver will be seeking re-election annually in the future.
Having been appointed by the A Subject to the provisions of the Acts, and provided that the Board during the year, Mr M N Oakes will retire and is seeking election by Company has complied with all applicable regulatory requirements, shareholders.
Details of directors biographies can be found on page 23. any document or information may be sent or supplied to a member by the Company in any manner permitted by the Acts: Resolution 7 This is a standard resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & i by handing it to the intended recipient: or Young LLP as the Companys auditors.
ii by sending or supplying it by hand or by post in a pre-paid Resolution 8 envelope addressed to the member at an address permitted At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 July 2006, shareholders by the Acts: or passed a resolution giving the directors authority, in accordance with article 4 B of the Companys articles of association, to allot relevant iii by leaving at that address in an envelope addressed to the securities, within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act member: or 1985, in the amount of 10,433,000.
The Company proposes to renew this authority and the section 80 amount referred to in resolution 8 iv by giving it in electronic form: or allows the directors to allot relevant securities up to a nominal value of 10,923,000, representing approximately 33% of the issued ordinary v by making it available on a website: or shares of the Company as at 21 May 2007.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority other than to satisfy the vi by any other means authorised in writing by the member exercise of options.
Resolution 9 Where the Company is unable to obtain any address falling The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its issued within this paragraph, the document or information may be sent share capital, granted last year, will expire at the close of the Annual or supplied to the intended recipients last address known to General Meeting.
This resolution seeks renewal of that authority, the Company.
again limited to a maximum number of shares which amounts to approximately 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
B A notice of general meeting may, in accordance with article 139 A, The authority has not been used to date and would only be exercised be given to a member by the Company by publishing the notice if the directors believed that a repurchase of shares would result in an on a website provided that the conditions of the Acts are increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of complied with.
Any shares repurchased under this authority may be held by the Company as treasury shares.
C In the case of joint holders of a share, all documents or information shall be sent or supplied to whichever of them is named first in the Resolution 10 register in respect of the joint holding and notice given in this way The Companys articles of association currently permit shareholder is sufficient notice to all joint holders.
Where the Acts or these documents including notices of meetings and copies of the annual articles require agreement of a member to electronic means of report and accounts to be made available electronically to those communication or website communication, the holder who is shareholders at their request.
named first in the register may give agreement on behalf of all joint holders.
Sections 1143 to 1148 and Schedules 4 and 5 of the Companies Act 2006 give companies wider powers to choose to communicate D If a member or, in the case of joint holders, the person first named electronically with shareholders who have consented or who are in the register has a registered address outside the United Kingdom deemed to have consented to receive shareholder documents but has notified the Company of an address in the United KIngdom electronically by placing the documents on a website and sending at which documents or other information may be given to him, or written notice to those shareholders of where and how to access the an address to which documents or information may be given by documents, or by e-mailing the documents to them.
The replacement electronic means of communication or website communication, of articles 138 to 141 is necessary to enable the Company to take he is entitled to have notices given to him at such address es, but advantage of these provisions.
Minor consequential amendments are otherwise no such member or person is entitled to receive necessary to articles 1, 64, 65 and 66. a document or other information from the Company.
On the assumption that the Company obtains shareholders approval 140 Notice by advertisement for the changes to the articles of association, it is proposed to write to shareholders later this year setting out options for shareholders to If by reason of the suspension or curtailment of postal services in receive future documents from the Company including, without the United Kingdom the Company is unable effectively to convene a limitation, notices of meetings and copies of the Annual Report and general meeting a by notices sent by post to those members who Accounts.
The full text of the revised articles and minor consequential have not notified an address for communications in electronic form, amendments is as follows: or b by notification sent by post to members of the presence of the notice on a website, the board may, in its absolute discretion 138 Manner of communications Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 87 Explanatory notes continued and as an alternative to any other method of service permitted by G A member present in person or by proxy at a meeting or of the the articles, resolve to convene a general meeting by a notice holders of a class of shares is deemed to have received due notice advertised in at least one United Kingdom national newspaper.
In of the meeting and, where required, of the purposes for which it this case the Company shall send confirmatory copies of the notice was called.
to those members by post if at least seven clear days before the meeting the posting of notices to addresses throughout the United Minor consequential amendments Kingdom again becomes practicable.
In article 1 A : 141 Evidence of service Replacing the definition of address with includes postal address and A Any document or other information addressed to a member at his electronic address and registered address and address for service registered address or address for service in the United Kingdom is, shall be construed accordingly.
if sent by post, deemed to be given at the expiration of 24 hours after it was put in the post if pre-paid as first class post and at the Deleting the definitions of communication and electronic expiration of 48 hours after it was put in the post if pre-paid as communication.
second class post, and in proving service it is sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the notice or document was properly In articles 64, 65 and 66 replacing the words an electronic addressed, pre-paid and posted.
communication with a communication in electronic form and in article 65 A ii c inserting the words or made available on a website after B Any document or other information sent in electronic form shall be a communication in electronic form deemed to be served or delivered on the day of transmission.
Proof that a document or other information sent in electronic form was The Company intends to review its articles of association in full and sent in accordance with guidance issued by the Institute of propose changes at the next Annual General Meeting to reflect all of the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators shall be conclusive provisions of the Companies Act 2006 once they have come into force.
evidence that the notice was given.
Resolution 11 C Any document or other information served or delivered by making it At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 July 2006 shareholders available on a website shall be deemed to be served or delivered passed a resolution giving the directors authority under article 4 C to when it is first made available on the website or, if later, when the disapply the pre-emption requirements for allotments of equity securities member received or was deemed to have received notice of the fact which, for the purposes of section 94 3A of the Act, includes the sale that the document or other information was available on the of treasury shares up to 1,564,885.
directors exercised this authority in order to make a placing of equity securities on a non-pre-emptive basis in the amount of 1,562,500 in D Any document or other information not sent by post but left at a connection with the acquisition of St Hubert SAS.
In order to allow registered address or address for service in the United Kingdom is maximum flexibility the Company proposes to renew this authority up deemed to be given on the day it is left.
to a nominal value limit of 1,655,022 being approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 18 May 2007.
The Board E Where notice is given by newspaper advertisement, the notice is has no present intention of allotting any shares in these restricted deemed to be given to all members and other persons entitled to circumstances and it is not intended to issue more than a further 2.5% receive it at noon on the day when the advertisement appears or, of equity securities on a non-pre-emptive basis over the three year where notice is given by more than one advertisement and the period commencing 20 July 2006 without appropriate prior consultation.
advertisements appear on different days, at noon on the last of the days when the advertisements appear.
The Directors believe that the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole F Any other document or other information served or delivered by the and unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote Company by any other means authorised in writing by the member in favour of all resolutions.
concerned is deemed to be served when the Company has taken the action it has been authorised to take for that purpose.
88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 4658 DC Cover AW.
qxd 7 6 07 13:17 Page 2 Hartington Kirkby Liverpool Over the Moon Utterly Butterly Household milk Blue Cheeses of Hartington St Ivel Gold Retailer branded Stilton Nottingham Household milk Foston Dairy Crest milk Retailer branded milk Crudgington Clover Country Life Nuneaton National distribution Fenstanton centre Dairy Crest milk Wexford Retailer branded milk Wexford Mild & Creamy Household milk Severnside Country Life Rayleigh Organic and FRijj Philpot Dairy Waitrose select farm Products Retailer branded milk Hanworth Household milk Chadwell Heath Claygate House St Ivel advance Group head office Retailer branded milk Frome Cathedral City Aldershot Retailer branded cheese Household head office Chard Retailer branded creams Alcoholic creams Davidstow Cathedral City Davidstow Totnes Dairy Crest milk Retailer branded milk Household milk Contents 2 Summary financials 36 Directors report 3 Chairmans statement 39 Statement of directors responsibilities 4 Chief Executives review 40 Consolidated income statement 6 Operating review 41 Consolidated and Parent Company balFOODS ance sheets 7 UK Spreads and St Hubert 42 Consolidated statement of recognised France 8 Cheese income and expense St Hubert 11 Fresh Dairy Products 43 Consolidated and Parent Company DAIRIES cash flow statements 13 Liquid Products and Ingredients 44 Accounting policies This report is printed on ERA Silk paper and has Italy 14 Household 50 Notes to the financial statements been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Vall 15 Milk purchasing 80 Independent auditors report Stewardship Council FSC.
16 Responsible business 82 Group financial history Art direction by Hudson Wright Associates 20 Financial review 83 Extract from shareholders circular Food photography by Con Poulos 23 Directors and Advisers 84 Shareholders information Board photography by Ed Hill 24 Corporate governance statement 85 Notice of Eleventh Annual Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners 28 Directors remuneration report General Meeting Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press Dairy Crest Group plc Annual Report 2007 4658 DC Cover AW.
qxd 6 6 07 02:01 Page 1 From the countryside to your table Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Company No: 3162897 Dairy Crest Group plc Visit our website at Annual Report 2007 www.
