Accounting policies Basis of preparation the Group will capitalise all borrowing costs directly attributable The consolidated and Company financial statements are to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest Apart from this, the directors do not anticipate the adoption of 0.1 million million except where otherwise indicated.
these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups accounts in the period of initial application.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Consolidation European Union EU.
The Company financial statements have The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU of Dairy Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 31 March each year using consistent accounting policies.
The Company has taken advantage of All intercompany balances and transactions, including the exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-group Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant date on which control is transferred to the Group.
At 31 March risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of 2007, minority interests represent the 20% interest in Wexford assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the Creamery Limited not held by the Group.
measurement of the impairment of goodwill and measurement of defined benefit obligations.
The Group determines whether Interest in joint ventures goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an The Groups investments in joint ventures are accounted for estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to under the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are which goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future entities over which the Group has joint control under contractual cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
agreement and which are not subsidiaries.
The reporting date Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation of the major joint venture, Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited, is not of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality identical to the Group although financial statements are rates, the expected return on plan assets and the choice of prepared to 31 March each year.
The company and joint a suitable discount rate.
ventures both use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in joint ventures is carried in the balance sheet at The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net and interpretations with an effective date after the date of assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment in value and these accounts: any distributions received.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of the joint ventures.
Where there has been International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS a change recognised directly in the joint ventures equity, the IFRS 4: Insurance contracts revised implementation guidance Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 when applicable in the consolidated statement of recognised IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures effective for periods income and expense.
beginning on or after 1 January 2007 IFRS 8: Operating segments effective for periods beginning on Foreign currency translation or after 1 January 2009 not yet endorsed The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group IAS 23 amendment : Borrowing costs effective for periods plc and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is pounds Sterling beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The functional currency of Wexford Creamery Limited and St Hubert SAS, subsidiary companies incorporated in Ireland International Financial Reporting Interpretations and France respectively, is the Euro.
Committee IFRIC IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2 Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the IFRIC 10: Interim financial reporting and impairment functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
IFRIC 11: Group and Treasury share transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements are translated into Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the income Upon adoption of IFRS 8 the number of segments reported by statement, except where deferred in equity as qualifying cash the Group may increase as disclosures will more closely follow flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7 disclosures in relation to financial risks and how they are On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are managed will be increased.
Upon the amendment to IAS 23 translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average Borrowing costs rates of exchange for the year being an approximation of Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred actual exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the in accordance with IAS 23: Borrowing Costs.
retranslation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less exchange differences on borrowings, Investments which finance or provide a hedge against those undertakings The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at are taken to a separate component of equity as long as IFRS cost being the fair value of consideration paid.
Income is hedge accounting conditions are met.
Exchange differences recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions relating to foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge received from post-acquisition profits.
Distributions received against a net investment in a foreign entity remain in equity until in excess of post-acquisition profits are deducted from the the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are cost of investment.
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those Goodwill borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date Property, plant and equipment and is not subsequently amortised.
Goodwill on acquisition is Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the business combination over the Groups acquirers interest in purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently value of property, plant and equipment, excluding freehold land, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the value may be impaired.
All goodwill was tested for impairment at assets as follows: the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment was identified.
Freehold buildings: 25 years As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, to the cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating the period of the lease units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Office equipment: 4 to 6 years Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where Vehicles: 4 to 10 years the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the for impairment when events or changes in circumstances operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this amount of plant and equipment is the greater of the fair value circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values less costs to sell or value in use.
In assessing value in use, the of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cashestimated future cash flows are discounted to their present generating unit retained.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely considering goodwill, are Dairies, UK Spreads, St Hubert, independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined Speciality Cheese and Cheese excluding Speciality Cheese.
for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
These represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated for management purposes and are no larger than the segments income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or against reserves even if the related investment becomes loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in impaired or the business sold.
the consolidated income statement in the year that it is derecognised.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 45 Accounting policies continued The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the Inventories transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable recorded under previous accounting rules.
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials an impairment review of goodwill should be conducted in on a first in first out basis, direct labour and a proportion of accordance with IAS 36 at the date of transition and at the manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity balance sheet date.
This review was performed and no incurred in bringing each product to its present location and adjustment was required.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of Intangible assets completion and selling costs.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill Trade and other receivables if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at and the future expected economic benefits flow to the Group.
original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible are written off when identified.
assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have finite useful lives and are Cash and cash equivalents amortised over 3 to 25 years.
Intangibles with a finite life Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in are amortised to the consolidated income statement using a hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three methodology that matches managements estimate of how months or less.
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow the benefit of the assets will be recovered.
Useful lives are statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Interest bearing loans Intangible assets acquired separately from business All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value combinations include software development expenditure.
of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with Software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and Software is amortised over five years.
Intangible assets that borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by either individually or at the cash-generating unit level or more taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the carrying value may be impaired.
net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised.
Research and development Net debt Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future equivalents plus interest bearing loans and finance leases.
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured The calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative as required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
financial instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps used to fix foreign currency debt in Sterling where they are Recoverable amount of non-current assets designated as cash flow hedges.
In this case the fixed Sterling At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there debt, not the underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an is included in net debt.
indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount Classification of shares as debt or equity of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the balance amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or sheet: measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset conversion or redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the those from other assets or groups of assets.
The initial fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent liability 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 without a conversion feature.
The remainder of the proceeds No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately on issue is allocated to the equity component and included in vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional on market shareholders equity, net of transaction costs.
The carrying conditions, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether amount of the equity component is not re-measured in the market conditions are satisfied.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and the Groups ordinary shares at 80% of the fair value at the grant equity components of the shares based on the allocation of date Sharesave Scheme.
The Group records an expense, proceeds to the liability and equity components when the based on the estimate of the 20% discount related to the instruments are first recognised.
shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the vesting period using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Retirement benefit obligations The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive for past service costs not yet recognised.
The independent Share Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in actuaries complete a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest arriving at shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the Group pension fund and the Wexford Creamery plan triennially.
sale of such shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or The obligation is updated annually for financial reporting loss recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity 7 November 2002. approximating the terms of the related liability.
Leased assets The current service costs are recognised in operating costs Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the in the Consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the the lease at fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined value of the minimum lease payments.
The net present value of benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities future lease rentals is included as a liability on the balance comprise the finance element of the pension cost and the sheet.
The interest element of lease rentals is charged to the difference between these amounts are included in other finance Consolidated income statement in the year.
Leases where the income or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease are recognised in full and are charged or credited to the rentals are charged to the Consolidated income statement on Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense a straight-line basis over the lease term.
in the period in which they arise.
Revenue Share based payments Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on Equity based performance payments delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share goods net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after based payment schemes for which they receive services from eliminating sales within the Group.
employees in consideration for the equity instrument.
Equitysettled share based payment schemes are measured at fair Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to value at the grant date by an external valuer using a Monte receive payment is established.
The costs of equity-settled transactions are recognised on a straight-line basis over the Other income vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equityOther income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites settled transactions at each reporting date until vesting reflects and household depots.
the expired vesting period and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors, will eventually vest after adjusting for the expected achievement of non-market performance conditions.
The amount charged to the Consolidated income statement is credited to reserves.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 47 Accounting policies continued Exceptional items profit will be available against which the deductible temporary Certain items are recorded separately in the Consolidated differences, the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused income statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, tax losses can be utilised except: one-off nature, which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event are disclosed in this manner in order to where the deferred income tax asset relating to the give a better understanding of the underlying operational deductible temporary difference arises from the initial performance of the Group.
The profits arising on disposal of recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is closed sites, other than as a result of depot rationalisation, are not a business combination and, at the time of the reported within exceptional items.
Exceptional items are not transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor excluded from the basic earnings per share calculation.
taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated Government and other grants with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised be available against which the temporary differences can as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a be utilised.
systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed a deferred income account and is released to the consolidated at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available asset in equal annual instalments.
to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured Income tax at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets Financial assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within purposes, except as indicated below.
the scope of IAS 39 as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: or Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group temporary differences except: and Company determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial financial year-end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset they are measured at fair value.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the Derivative instruments accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments in respect of taxable temporary differences associated such as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and that the temporary differences will not reverse in the subsequently re-measured to fair value at the reported balance foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company as either: documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: relationship between the hedged item and the hedging cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will be in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly is re-performed on a regular basis being at least half-yearly probable forecast transaction, or a firm commitment in to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
relation to foreign exchange exposure: or net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument to variability in the translated net assets of an overseas expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies operation.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair equity until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
value hedges during the year.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Cash flow hedges income statement for the period.
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported in the income When the hedged firm commitment in relation to foreign statement.
When the contracts are closely related and hedge exchange exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and results in the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, treated as described above.
then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the Consolidated income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Consolidated income statement for the year.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation of those borrowings are recognised in equity.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised in the Consolidated income statement whenever applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recycled through the Consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
