CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 63 for the year ended 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 Note m m Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures and associates continuing 3 159.4 149.5 Operating profit discontinued 25 0.8 Adjustments for: Share-based payments 4, 39 18.1 11.6 Depreciation 3, 19 59.0 70.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 6.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 3, 18 82.2 50.6 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 3, 17, 18 52.7 59.2 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 378.2 341.5 Decrease increase in inventories 5.9 5.4 Increase in trade and other receivables 64.2 13.6 Increase in trade and other payables 59.8 47.0 Decrease in provisions 3.4 1.9 Cash generated by operations 383.1 371.4 Taxation paid 43.8 29.1 Taxation received 8.5 Net cash from operating activities before payment into pension scheme 339.3 350.8 Payment into Group pension scheme following sale of Aberdeen Journals in 2006 25.9 Net cash inflow from operating activities 313.4 350.8 Investing activities Interest received 5.7 3.5 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 6.6 7.0 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 1.5 3.8 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 72.2 117.5 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 21 0.6 21.6 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5.3 19.1 Proceeds on disposal of investments 2.1 28.6 Purchase of subsidiaries 14 312.3 293.4 Internally generated intangible fixed assets 18 14.0 10.5 Treasury hedging activities 32.8 5.3 Investment in joint ventures and associates 20 14.5 13.7 Loans to joint ventures and associates repaid 20 5.0 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 14 37.0 186.5 Proceeds on disposal of associates 1.1 Net cash used in investing activities 316.5 202.9 Financing activities Equity dividends paid 10 52.6 48.6 Dividends paid to minority interests 37 8.9 7.7 Issue of share capital 35 2.7 1.4 Issue of shares by Group companies to minority interests 37 0.5 2.2 Purchase of own shares 36 32.8 31.0 Settlement of subsidiary share option plan 8.7 6.4 Interest paid 56.6 50.1 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 8 0.1 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 13 7.2 Proceeds on issue of bond 13 197.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 13 2.6 Bonds redeemed 13 9.4 Loan notes repaid 13 2.8 2.1 Repayment of other borrowings 13 54.7 23.7 Net cash used in financing activities 28.1 173.3 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 13 31.2 25.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 13, 26 96.1 124.0 Exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents 13 0.9 2.5 Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year 13, 26 64.0 96.1 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 64 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for periods beginning on or DMGT plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under after 1st May, 2006 : the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 148.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective for periods beginning on or after 1st June, 2006 : and These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted by the for periods beginning on or after 1st November, 2006.
European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies preparing their accounts under IFRS.
The following interpretations have been issued which are not applicable to the Group since they are only effective for accounting The principal accounting policies, used in preparing this periods beginning on or after 1st October, 2007 although the information, are set out in note 2.
Group has followed the guidance in IFRIC 11 to account for share-based payments.
The adoption of these interpretations is These financial statements have also been prepared in not expected to have any significant impact on the Groups accordance with the accounting policies set out in the 2006 Annual financial statements.
Report and Accounts, as amended to introduce also the reducing balance method of amortisation of intangible assets and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and Treasury Share Transactions presentation of derivatives as discussed below.
effective for periods beginning on or after 1st March, 2007 : Impact of new accounting standards IFRIC 12, Service Concession Agreements effective for periods At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the beginning on or after 1st January, 2008 : following standards have been issued but not applied to the information in these financial statements, since they do not apply IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for periods to this reporting period.
beginning on or after 1st July, 2008 : and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective for periods IFRIC 14, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset Minimum Funding beginning on or after 1st January, 2009.
IFRS 7 requires Requirements and their Interaction effective for periods discussion of the significance of financial instruments for an beginning on or after 1st January, 2008. entitys financial position and performance and of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from Other changes financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures In light of the IASBs decision to revisit IAS 1, Presentation of about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
Adoption of this Financial Statements, in respect of the presentation of derivatives standard will not cause any change to the Groups results or in the balance sheet, the Group has reclassified its derivative financial position but will result in additional disclosures.
financial assets and liabilities as at 1st October, 2006 from current to long term where the maturity of these contracts is greater than Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements twelve months from the balance sheet date.
This has resulted in an effective for periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2007. increase in non-current assets amounting to 12.4 million and an The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level increase in non-current liabilities amounting to 2.9 million of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
Adoption of this together with a decrease in current assets amounting to 12.4 amendment is not expected to change the presentation of the million and a decrease in current liabilities amounting to 2.9 Groups financial statements significantly.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for periods beginning on or In the prior year the income statement heading Profit before net after 1st January, 2009.
IFRS 8 sets out disclosure requirements finance costs and tax was named Profit from operations.
This concerning an entitys operating segments, products, services, change was made for clarification purposes for the users of the geographical areas in which it operates and its major customers.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to change the disclosures already made 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES in the Groups financial statements significantly.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries together Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective for periods with the Groups share of all of its interests in joint ventures and commencing on or after 1st January, 2009.
The financial statements have been prepared on the requires all borrowing costs which are directly attributable to historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial an acquisition construction or production of a qualifying asset instruments.
to form part of the cost of that asset.
The Group does not expect a significant impact from this standard.
Accounting for subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved The following interpretations to international accounting where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating standards have been issued which are applicable to the Group for policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The adoption of these interpretations has had no impact on the Groups financial The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year statements: are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal, as appropriate.
IFRIC 4, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease effective for periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2006 : Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 line with those used by other members of the Group.
Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective for periods beginning on or after 1st March, 2006 : All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 65 continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED As associate is an entity over which the Group has significant Minority interests influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of control or joint control over those policies.
the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses The post-tax results of joint ventures and associates are attributable to the minority in excess of the minoritys share in incorporated in the Groups results using the equity method of equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able ventures and associates are carried in the consolidated balance to make an additional investment to cover such losses.
When the sheet at a cost, as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, the minority does not Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture and associate, participate until the Group has recovered all of the losses of the less any impairment in the value of investment.
Losses of joint minority it previously reported.
ventures and associates in excess of the Groups interest in that joint venture or associate are not recognised.
Additional losses Business combinations are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The liabilities of the joint venture or associate, recognised at the date acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquisition is, recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, other within the carrying amount of the investment.
than non-current assets and liabilities of disposal groups which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Where an Intangible assets adjustment to fair values relating to previously held interests Goodwill including interests which were equity accounted under IAS 28 Goodwill and intangible assets, acquired arising on the acquisition Investments in associates is required on achieving control, this of an entity, represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over is accounted for as an adjustment directly in equity.
the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the Goodwill arising on acquisitions is recognised as an asset and date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly recognised.
Where control is achieved in more than one exchange in the income statement.
transaction, goodwill is calculated separately for each transaction based on the cost of each transaction and the appropriate share of Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a the acquirees net assets based on net fair values at the time of foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign each transaction.
entity and are translated at the closing exchange rates on the balance sheet date.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Purchase and sale of shares in a controlled entity Where the Groups interest in a controlled entity increases no Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 4th adjustments are recorded to the fair values of the assets already October, 2004, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount held on the balance sheet.
The Group calculates the goodwill subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
arising as the difference between the cost of the additional interest acquired and the increase in the Groups interest in Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has the fair value of the subsidiarys net assets at the date of the not been reinstated and is not included in determining any exchange transaction.
Any difference between the cost of the subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
additional interest, goodwill arising and the existing carrying value of the minority share of net assets is adjusted directly in equity.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment Where the Groups interest in a controlled entity decreases, which losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment either annually or does not result in a change of control, the Group increases the more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate minority interests share of net assets by the book value of the a possible decline in the carrying value.
share of net assets disposed of.
Any profit or loss on disposal of the share of net assets to the minority interest is calculated by For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the reference to the consideration received, the book value of the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash share of net assets disposed and a proportion of any relevant flows, known as cash-generating units.
If the recoverable amount goodwill in the balance sheet relating to the subsidiary.
of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying Interests in joint ventures and associates amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group assets of the unit, pro-rated on the basis of the carrying amount and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject of each asset in the unit, but subject to not reducing any asset to joint control, that is when the strategic financial and operating below its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss recognised for policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
consent of the parties sharing control.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 66 continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other intangible assets The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to Other intangible assets with finite lives are stated at cost less sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is future cash flows are discounted to their present value using charged to the income statement on a reducing balance or a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific assets from the date they become available for use.
The estimated to the asset or cash-generating unit.
useful lives are as follows: Licences Publishing rights, titles and exhibitions 20 years Radio licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line Radio licences 20 years basis over the estimated useful lives from the commencement of Brands 20 years service of the network, estimated by management to be 20 years.
Market and customer related databases 3 20 years Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the Customer relationships 3 20 years costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives, being Computer software 3 5 years three to five years.
Property, plant and equipment Costs that are directly associated with the production of Land and buildings held for use are stated in the balance sheet at identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and and that are expected to generate economic benefits exceeding subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
costs and directly attributable overheads are capitalised as intangibles.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets Computer software which is integral to a related item of hardware commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
equipment is accounted for as property, plant and equipment.
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Costs associated with maintaining computer software depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group and is recognised in the income statement.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than property, plant and equipment under construction using the An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives as follows: impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Research and development expenditure Short leasehold premises the term of the lease Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in Plant and equipment 3 25 years the period in which it is incurred.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development activity is recognised only if the asset can be Inventory separately identified, it is probable the asset will generate future Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
economic benefits, the development cost can be measured Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct reliably, the project is technically feasible and the project will be labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in completed with a view to sell or use the asset.
Additionally, bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
guidance in Standing Interpretations Committee SIC 32 has been For valuation purposes the Group uses the Average Cost AVCO applied in accounting for internally developed website method in the Newspaper divisions and the First In First Out development costs.
FIFO method in the remaining divisions.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a  costs line basis over their estimated useful lives, when the asset is Pre-publication costs represent direct costs incurred in the available for use, and are reported net of impairment losses.
development of titles prior to their publication.
These costs are Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, recognised as assets on the balance sheet to the extent that development expenditure is charged to the income statement in future economic benefit is virtually certain and can be measured the period in which it is incurred.
Marketing costs Cash and cash equivalents Marketing and promotional costs are charged to the income Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and statement in the period in which they are incurred.
other short-term, highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 67 continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss Revenue on sale.
Group revenue comprises revenue of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Revenue is stated net of value added The Group records foreign exchange differences arising on tax, trade discounts and commission, where applicable, and is retranslation of foreign operations within the translation reserve in recognised using several methods.
including revenue from Information Services, is recognised over the period of the subscription or contract.
Publishing and In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, circulation revenue is recognised on issue of publication or report.
transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional Advertising is recognised on issue of publication, over the period currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the online campaign, or date of broadcast.
Contract print of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date monetary items revenue is recognised on completion of the print contract.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates Exhibitions, Training and Events revenues are recognised over the prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the and associates date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that The Group discloses as operating profit, profit before share of are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are results from associates and joint ventures, other gains and losses, not retranslated.
investment income and finance costs.
The Directors believe that this measure is useful to readers as it shows the results of the Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary Groups operations before contribution from joint ventures and items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included associates and because it excludes one-off gains and losses on in the income statement for the period.
disposal of businesses, properties and similar items of a nonrecurring nature.
Goodwill, intangible assets and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as part of the Other gains and losses assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and are translated at Other gains and losses comprise profit or loss on sale of trading the closing rate.
Goodwill which arose pre-transition to IFRS is investments, profit or loss on sale of property, plant and held at historic cost.
equipment, impairment of available-for-sale assets, profit or loss on sale of businesses and profit or loss on sale of joint ventures In respect of all foreign operations, any cumulative exchange and associates.
differences that have arisen before 4th October, 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are reset to nil and will be excluded from the Leasing determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Borrowing costs of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as Unless capitalised as required by IAS 23, all borrowing costs are operating leases.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Finance charges, including any premiums to be paid Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs and discounts Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, related to borrowings, are accounted for on an accruals basis and at the present value of the minimum lease payments as charged to the income statement using the effective interest determined at the inception of the lease.
liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between Retirement benefits finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to As permitted by IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the Financial Reporting Standards, the Group elected to recognise all liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
cumulative actuarial gains and losses in the pension schemes operated by the Group at the date of transition to IFRS.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant Pension scheme assets are measured at market value at the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate reflecting over the lease term.
current yields on high quality corporate bonds having regard to the duration of the liability profiles of the schemes.
Dividends Dividend income from investments is recognised when the For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the plan Dividends are recognised as a distribution in the period in which liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance they are approved by the shareholders.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to recorded in the period in which they are paid.
the statement of recognised income and expense.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of Foreign currencies changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, arising because of differences between the previous actuarial the assets and liabilities of entities with a functional currency assumptions and what has actually occurred.
For defined benefit other than sterling are expressed in sterling using exchange rates schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for carried out at each balance sheet date.
the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that operation Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 68 continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form the income statement, including the current service cost, any past part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each the income statement.
The amount charged to the income balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer statement in respect of these plans is included within operating probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to The values attributed to the plan liabilities are assessed in apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and is not In assessing whether to recognise a surplus the Group has regard discounted.
to the principles set out in IFRIC 14.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a Since the assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit plans legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against cannot be allocated to individual entities on a fair and reasonable current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied basis, the schemes assets and liabilities are not attributed to by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its reporting segments and the pension charge in each segment current assets and liabilities on a net basis.
represents the contributions payable for the period.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
case the tax is also recognised directly in equity.
Taxation Financial instruments Tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial and deferred tax for the year.
instruments, are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the The current tax payable or recoverable is based on the taxable instrument.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because some items of income or expense Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount are taxable or deductible in different years or may never be reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is right to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and liability calculated using the UK and foreign tax rates that have been simultaneously and where the Group intends to net settle.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial assets Current tax assets and liabilities are offset and stated net in the Trade receivables balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated either relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority irrecoverable amounts.
or on the same taxable entity or on different taxable entities which intend to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the nominal value.
future arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and The Group has no significant long-term trade receivables or trade the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable payables.
It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable Available-for-sale investments temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to Investments and financial assets are recognised and fidethe extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available recognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary the investment within the time frame established by the market differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the concerned, and are measured at fair value, including transaction initial recognition other than in a business combination of other costs.
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Investments are classified as either held-for-trading or availablefor-sale.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net differences arising in investments in subsidiaries and associates, profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss future.
previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
The fair value of listed securities is determined Goodwill arising on business combinations also includes amounts based on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on corresponding to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of managements estimate of fair value determined by discounting acquired intangible assets.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to future cash flows to net present value using market interest rates prevailing at the year end.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 69 continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Fair value hedges Financial liabilities and equity instruments The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to are classified according to the substance of the contractual floating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk with changes arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the income liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any statement for the period together with the changes in the fair contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the value of the hedged item, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The accounting policies The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are statement.
set out below : Cash flow hedges Capital market and bank borrowings Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows value which is equal to net proceeds at inception, and are are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Groups interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged policy with respect to hedging the foreign currency risk of a item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, firm commitment is to designate it as a cash flow hedge.
If a net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of hedged firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains and Equity instruments losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in item affects the income statement.
foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Net investment hedges The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net policies, which are set out on pages 33 to 35 of the Financial and investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity Treasury Review and approved by the Board of Directors, which in the translation reserve.
Gains and losses on foreign currency provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives borrowings and derivative financial instruments that are consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group designated as hedging net investments in foreign operations are does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is purposes.
Any ineffectiveness is recognised immediately in the income statement of the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at the the translation reserve are included in the income statement on date the derivatives are entered into and are subsequently redisposal of the foreign operation.
measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value is determined by using market data and the use of established Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument estimation techniques such as discounted cashflow and option expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies valuation models.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity i Hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction liabilities fair value hedges or is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
ii Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges or Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations net risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the investment hedges host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains and losses reported in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, Provisions together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, and it is probable portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions designated and qualify as net investment hedges or cash flow are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure hedges are recognised in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting, required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are the hedging relationship must be expected to be effective, be discounted to present value where the effect is material.
designated and documented at its inception and throughout the life of the hedge relationship Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain When the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, hedge at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting accounting is discontinued.
The net cumulative gain or loss conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is period when the hedged item is sold or when the hedged cash expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based flow is no longer expected to occur.
on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 70 continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model which is Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired calibrated using a Black-Scholes framework.
The expected life requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, exercise calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows restrictions and behavioural considerations.
expected to arise from the cash generating unit and compare the net present value of these cashflows using a suitable discount The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2, Share-based rate to determine if any impairment has occurred.
A key area of Payments to all equity instruments granted but not fully vested at judgement is deciding the long-term growth rate of the applicable 4th October, 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
In accordance businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
The with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets at the balance grants of equity instruments after 7th November, 2002. sheet date was 1,480.1 million 2006 1,124.9 million after an impairment loss of 52.7 million 2006 59.2 million recognised Critical accounting judgements and key sources during the year.
of estimation uncertainty In addition to the judgement taken by management in selecting Adjusted profits and exceptional items and applying the accounting policies set out above, management The Group presents adjusted earnings by making adjustments for has made the following judgements concerning the amounts costs and profits which management believe to be exceptional in recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
nature by virtue of their size or incidence including tax items.
Such items would include one off gains and losses on disposal of Acquisitions and intangible assets businesses, properties and similar items of a non-recurring nature The Groups accounting policy on the acquisition of subsidiaries is together with reorganisation costs and similar charges, impairment to allocate purchase consideration to the fair value of identifiable and other profit affecting adjustments to goodwill.
See note 11 for assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, with any a reconciliation of profit before tax to adjusted profit.
In determining the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired Share-based payments significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions The Group makes share-based payments to certain employees.
with respect to cash flows and unprovided liabilities and These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the commitments, particularly in respect to tax, are often used.
The date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing Group recognises intangible assets acquired as part of a business model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on combination at fair values at the date of the acquisition.
The a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the determination of these fair values is based upon managements estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The key judgement and includes assumptions on the timing and amount of assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the options are future cash flows generated by the assets and the selection of an the discount rate, the Groups share price volatility, dividend yield, appropriate discount rate.
Additionally, management must risk-free rate of return, and expected option lives.
These are set estimate the expected useful economic lives of intangible assets out in note 39.
Management regularly perform a true-up of the and charge amortisation on these assets accordingly.
estimate of the number of shares that are expected to vest, this is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
See note 39 for Acquisition option commitments further detail.
The Group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining minority interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS 39 Taxation requires the discounted present value of these acquisition option Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic commitments to be recognised as a liability on the balance sheet locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure which with a corresponding decrease in reserves.
The discounts are makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
unwound as a notional interest charge to the income statement.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Key areas of judgement in calculating the discounted present Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of legal processes.
value of the options are the expected future cash flows and Such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a earnings of the business and the discount rate.
At 30th prudent view of unresolved issues, however the inherent September, 2007 the discounted present value of these acquisition uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual option commitments is 40.6 million 2006 32.7 million.
resolution could differ significantly from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and future cash flows.
Deferred consideration Estimates are required in respect of the amount of deferred Retirement benefit obligations contingent consideration, which is determined according to The cost of defined benefit pension plans is determined using formulae agreed at the time of the business combination, and actuarial valuations prepared by the Groups actuaries.
This normally related to the future earnings of the acquired business.
involves making certain assumptions concerning discount rates, The Directors review the amount of contingent consideration expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, likely to become payable at each balance date, the major mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term assumption being the level of future profits of the acquired nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant business.
At 30th September, 2007 the Group has outstanding uncertainty.
The assumptions and the resulting estimates are deferred consideration payable amounting to 55.9 million reviewed annually and, when appropriate, changes are made 2006 81.1 million.
which affect the actuarial valuations and, hence, the amount of retirement benefit expense recognised in the income statement Deferred consideration is discounted to its fair value in and the amounts of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the accordance with IFRS 3 and IAS 37.
The difference between the statement of recognised income and expense.
The carrying fair value of these liabilities and the actual amounts payable is amount of the retirement benefit obligation at 30th September, charged to the income statement as notional finance costs.
2007 was a surplus of 80.6 million 2006 deficit 151.3 million.
Further details are given in note 32.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 71 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION By activity The Groups business activities are currently split into six operating divisions national newspapers, local media, business information, Euromoney Institutional Investor Euromoney, exhibitions and radio.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Each segment includes its respective associated electronic products.
Revenue comprises Group sales excluding value added tax, less discounts and commission where applicable.
2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2007 2006Discontinued 2006 2006 Total operations Inter-segment Continuing Total operations Inter-segment Continuing m m m m m m m m National newspapers and related activities 1,060.5 74.3 986.2 992.9 37.9 955.0 Local media 450.7 3.6 447.1 466.7 11.9 454.8 Business information 293.3 0.6 292.7 345.8 0.7 345.1 Euromoney 310.2 5.0 305.2 220.5 220.5 Exhibitions and related activities164.1 164.1 163.2 163.2 Radio 39.8 39.8 37.4 37.4 2,318.6 5.0 78.5 2,235.1 2,226.5 50.5 2,176.0 Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices other than the sale of newsprint from national newspapers to the local newspaper division which is at cost.
The amount of newsprint sold during the period amounted to 36.6 million 2006 39.0 million.
In the prior year revenue of business information comprised 255.6 million from business-to-business information and 89.5 million from Study Group.
Groups revenue is further analysed as follows: 2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2006Discontinued 2006 Total operations Continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m m m Sale of goods 658.6 658.6 601.9 601.9 Rendering of services 1,581.5 5.0 1,576.5 1,574.1 1,574.1 2,240.1 5.0 2,235.1 2,176.0 2,176.0 The Group includes circulation and subscriptions revenue within Sales of goods.
Revenue from investment income is shown in note 7.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 72 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Operating profit loss from continuing operations before share of joint ventures and associates result is analysed by segment as follows: 2007 Before exceptional operating costs and amortisation 2007 and impairment 2007 Impairment 2007 of goodwill Exceptional of goodwill Amortisation and intangible operating and intangible of intangible 2007 assets costs assets assets Total m m m m m Operating profit loss National newspapers and related activities 83.3 13.3 24.1 28.8 17.1 Local media 92.5 6.0 5.2 11.0 70.3 Business information 70.6 3.6 8.0 59.0 Euromoney 68.4 5.9 - 17.8 44.7 Exhibitions and related activities 27.0 2.9 19.8 7.5 3.2 Radio 3.7 9.1 12.8 Unallocated central costs 15.7 15.7 322.4 28.1 52.7 82.2 159.4 Operating profit before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets within the national newspapers division comprised 76.1 million from newspapers, 11.2 million from digital offset by a loss of 4.0 million from television.
Included within unallocated cental costs is a credit of 1.9 million which adjusts the pensions charge recorded in each operating segment from a cash rate to an actuarial accrual rate in accordance with IAS 19.
The Groups exceptional operating costs comprised local media restructuring costs totalling 6.0 million, together with reorganisation costs of 13.3 million within national newspapers and related activities, 5.9 million within Euromoney and 2.9 million within exhibitions and related activities.
If all acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, contribution to Group revenues for the year would have been 113.4 million and contribution to Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 9.5 million.
This information takes into account the amortisation of acquired intangible assets for a full year, together with related income tax effects but excludes any pre-acquisition finance costs and should not be viewed as indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred if the acquisitions had actually been completed on the first day of the financial year.
Operating profit loss from continuing operations before share of joint ventures and associates result is analysed by segment as follows: 2006 Before exceptional operating costs and amortisation 2006 and impairment 2006Impairment 2006 of goodwill Exceptional of goodwill Amortisation 2006 and intangible operating and intangible of intangible Total assets costs assets assetscontinuing m m m m m Operating profit loss National newspapers and related activities 99.5 5.8 19.2 16.6 57.9 Local media 88.9 31.9 1.0 8.6 47.4 Business information 68.0 0.6 6.6 60.8 Euromoney 39.1 0.4 2.3 36.4 Exhibitions and related activities 24.4 2.8 16.2 6.1 0.7 Radio 4.9 22.4 10.4 37.7 Unallocated central costs 14.6 14.6 300.4 41.1 59.2 50.6 149.5 In 2006 operating profit before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets within the national newspapers division comprised 86.1 million from newspapers, 13.2 from digital and 0.2 from television.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 73 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and goodwill and impairment of intangible assets within the business information division comprised 68.0 million from business-to-business information and 4.1 million from Study Group offset by unallocated central costs of 4.1 million.
Included within unallocated central costs is a credit of 2.0 million which adjusts the pensions charge recorded in each operating segment from a cash rate to an actuarial accrual rate in accordance with IAS 19.
The Groups exceptional operating costs comprised local media restructuring and strategic review costs totalling 31.9 million, together with reorganisation costs of 5.8 million within national newspapers and related activities, 0.6 million in business-tobusiness information and 2.8 million within exhibitions and related activities.
Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures and associates is analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2006Discontinued 2006 Total operations Continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m m m National newspapers and related activities 17.1 17.1 57.9 57.9 Local media 70.3 70.3 47.4 47.4 Business information 62.6 62.6 60.8 60.8 Euromoney 45.5 0.8 44.7 36.4 36.4 Exhibitions and related activities 3.2 3.2 0.7 0.7 Radio 16.4 16.4 37.7 37.7 Unallocated central costs 15.7 15.7 14.6 14.6 160.2 0.8 159.4 149.5 149.5 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets are analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m National newspapers and related activities 52.9 35.8 Local media 16.2 9.6 Business information 11.6 6.6 Euromoney 17.8 2.7 Exhibitions and related activities 27.3 22.3 Radio 9.1 32.8 134.9 109.8 Included in the impairment charge is a reduction of 3.6 million in the business information division and 0.8 million in the national newspapers and related activities division in the carrying value of goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets for pre-acquisition losses note 17.
Groups share of results of joint ventures are analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m National newspapers and related activities 1.2 Local media 0.3 Business information 0.6 Euromoney 0.5 Exhibitions and related activities 0.4 0.4 Radio 0.5 1.2 0.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 74 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Groups share of results of associates are analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m National newspapers and related activities 2.0 0.6 Local media 0.7 Business information 2.1 0.4 Euromoney 0.2 0.7 Exhibitions and related activities 0.3 4.3 0.6 5.3 Other gains and losses are analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m National newspapers and related activities 4.5 1.0 Local media 2.1 106.0 Business information 0.8 66.6 Euromoney 6.7 0.6 Exhibitions and related activities 1.7 0.2 Radio 0.6 Group operations 19.3 14.2 35.7 188.6 Investment revenues are analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m National newspapers and related activities 0.9 1.1 Local media 0.6 0.5 Business information 0.3 0.8 Euromoney 2.9 0.6 Exhibitions and related activities 0.5 0.2 Radio 0.4 0.1 Group operations 1.4 3.8 7.0 7.1 Finance costs are analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m National newspapers and related activities 0.8 1.4 Business information 0.6 1.1 Euromoney 1.3 4.7 Exhibitions and related activities 0.1 Radio 0.7 Unallocated central costs 59.1 31.3 61.8 39.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 75 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Profit before tax is analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2006Discontinued 2006 Total operations Continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m m m National newspapers and related activities 19.6 19.6 55.5 55.5 Local media 73.3 73.3 155.7 155.7 Business information 65.2 65.2 128.1 128.1 Euromoney 54.0 0.8 53.2 34.1 34.1 Exhibitions and related activities 0.3 0.3 4.3 4.3 Radio 14.9 14.9 38.3 38.3 Unallocated central costs 54.0 54.0 27.9 27.9 142.9 0.8 142.1 311.5 311.5 The Groups net assets are analysed by segment as follows: Total Total Total net assets assets liabilities liabilities 2007 2007 2007 m m m National newspapers and related activities 724.2 321.2 403.0 Local media 450.5 122.7 327.8 Business information 471.1 154.0 317.1 Euromoney 511.3 237.4 273.9 Exhibitions and related activities 274.3 105.9 168.4 Radio 201.5 7.3 194.2 Unallocated pension assets liabilities 82.0 1.4 80.6 Group operations 72.8 1,117.3 1,044.5 2,787.7 2,067.2 720.5 Total Total Total net assets assets liabilities liabilities 2006 2006 2006 m m m National newspapers and related activities 697.8 329.5 368.3 Local media 473.8 90.7 383.1 Business information 401.2 117.6 283.6 Euromoney 220.8 206.0 14.8 Exhibitions and related activities 297.2 123.9 173.3 Radio 190.2 19.7 170.5 Unallocated pension liabilities 151.3 151.3 Group operations 69.0 836.0 767.0 2,350.0 1,874.7 475.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 76 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of goodwill are analysed by segment as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m National newspapers and related activities 12.1 19.3 2.7 74.6 129.8 146.0 Local media 5.2 33.8 3.0 138.3 111.0 Business information 3.6 39.7 64.0 268.6 237.9 Euromoney 0.4 200.7 9.3 253.1 68.3 Exhibitions and related activities 19.6 15.4 0.4 10.8 97.6 112.3 40.5 35.1 277.3 161.7 887.4 675.5 Included in the impairment charge is a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill of 3.6 million in the business information division and 0.8 million in the national newspapers and related activities division on recognition of deferred tax assets for pre-acquisition losses note 17.
Amortisation, impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of intangible assets are analysed by segment as follows: Closing net Closing net Amortisation Amortisation Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m m m National newspapers and related activities 28.8 16.6 12.0 15.3 88.1 86.6 110.3 Local media 11.0 8.6 1.0 45.5 19.5 86.8 54.5 Business information 8.0 6.6 31.2 38.5 71.2 52.1 Euromoney 17.8 2.3 145.1 0.4 139.6 15.3 Exhibitions and related activities 7.5 6.1 0.2 0.8 44.6 57.7 69.8 Radio 9.1 10.4 22.3 150.8 147.4 82.2 50.6 12.2 24.1 237.1 191.1 592.7 449.4 Depreciation charge, additions and closing net book value of property, plant and equipment are analysed by segment as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Depreciation Depreciation Additions Additions book value book value 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m m m National newspapers and related activities 6.0 24.9 23.1 40.9 79.0 295.7 230.8 Local media 19.1 32.2 12.7 24.4 135.2 225.1 Business information 7.0 7.4 10.4 9.5 22.9 20.1 Euromoney 2.9 2.9 7.9 5.8 20.9 14.7 Exhibitions and related activities 1.7 1.6 1.7 0.3 5.2 5.4 Radio 2.2 2.2 0.6 1.9 15.3 15.7 Group operations 1.2 1.2 25.5 1.9 6.0 59.0 70.6 74.2 120.9 520.7 513.7 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 77 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED By geographical area The majority of the Groups operations are located in the United Kingdom, the rest of Europe, North America and Australia.
The geographic analysis below is based on the location of companies in that region.
Export sales and related profits are included in the areas from which those sales are made.
Revenue in each geographical market in which customers are located is not disclosed as there is no material difference between the two.
2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2006Discontinued 2006 Total operations Continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m m m UK 1,660.9 5.0 1,655.9 1,627.0 1,627.0 Rest of Europe 58.9 58.9 62.2 62.2 North America 404.5 404.5 361.1 361.1 Australia 52.1 52.1 84.1 84.1 Rest of the World 63.7 63.7 41.6 41.6 2,240.1 5.0 2,235.1 2,176.0 2,176.0 Operating profit loss before share of results of joint ventures and associates is analysed by geographical area as follows: 2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2006Discontinued 2006 Total operations Continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m m m UK 86.5 0.8 85.7 122.0 122.0 Rest of Europe 6.8 6.8 2.0 2.0 North America 73.7 73.7 55.2 55.2 Australia 20.3 20.3 38.2 38.2 Rest of the World 13.5 13.5 8.5 8.5 160.2 0.8 159.4 149.5 149.5 Groups share of results of joint ventures is analysed by geographical area as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m UK 0.6 Rest of Europe 0.3 1.3 North America 0.4 1.0 Australia 0.5 1.2 0.3 Groups share of results of associates is analysed by geographical area as follows: 2007 2006 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m UK 1.6 1.9 North America 1.8 3.4 Rest of the World 0.4 0.6 5.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 78 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Groups net assets are analysed by geographical area as follows: Total Total Total net assets assets liabilities liabilities 2007 2007 2007 m m m UK 1,544.6 1,554.1 9.5 Rest of Europe 90.1 33.1 57.0 North America 845.0 409.1 435.9 Australia 211.6 12.5 199.1 Rest of the World 96.4 58.4 38.0 2,787.7 2,067.2 720.5 Total Total Total net assets assets liabilities liabilities 2006 2006 2006 m m m UK 1,369.4 1,482.0 112.6 Rest of Europe 76.6 17.1 59.5 North America 616.0 297.8 318.2 Australia 206.5 12.0 194.5 Rest of the World 81.5 65.8 15.7 2,350.0 1,874.7 475.3 Impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of goodwill are analysed by geographical area as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m UK 18.6 21.4 120.5 77.1 376.8 297.2 Rest of Europe 5.6 0.4 33.1 27.5 North America 13.6 10.3 141.1 76.8 434.9 310.5 Australia 8.3 3.4 0.2 2.5 10.8 Rest of the World 10.1 7.2 40.1 29.5 40.5 35.1 277.3 161.7 887.4 675.5 Included within the goodwill impairment charge in 2007 of 40.5 million is a reduction in goodwill of 4.4 million relating to the recognition of a deferred tax asset for pre-acquisition losses of Genscape Inc of 3.6 million and Primelocation of 0.8 million.
Amortisation, impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of intangible assets are analysed by geographical area as follows: Closing net Closing net Amortisation Amortisation Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m m m UK 48.1 26.9 12.0 1.3 122.5 97.5 223.4 163.6 Rest of Europe 1.8 1.1 6.1 11.8 17.4 11.5 North America 21.0 11.3 0.2 0.4 102.1 74.4 187.9 117.8 Australia 9.3 10.6 22.4 0.2 0.2 151.1 147.4 Rest of the World 2.0 0.7 6.2 7.2 12.9 9.1 82.2 50.6 12.2 24.1 237.1 191.1 592.7 449.4 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 79 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Depreciation charge, additions and closing net book value of property, plant and equipment are analysed by geographical area as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Depreciation Depreciation Additions Additions book value book value 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m m m UK 6.0 47.5 59.7 59.7 91.4 470.0 466.6 Rest of Europe 2.0 1.5 1.9 5.7 9.0 8.7 North America 6.2 6.0 10.1 8.1 21.3 18.4 Australia 2.5 2.8 0.8 3.1 15.9 16.3 Rest of the World 0.8 0.6 1.7 1.0 4.5 3.7 6.0 59.0 70.6 74.2 109.3 520.7 513.7 Operating profit is further analysed as follows: 2007 2006 2007Discontinued 2007 2006 Discontinued 2006 Total operations Continuing Total operations Continuing Note m m m m m m Revenue 2,240.1 5.0 2,235.1 2,176.0 2,176.0 Decrease in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 2.1 2.1 1.9 1.9 Raw materials and consumables 283.7 283.7 283.4 283.4 Inventories recognised as an expense in the period 285.8 285.8 285.3 285.3 Distribution and transportation costs 90.2 90.2 90.1 90.1 Promotion and marketing costs 173.1 173.1 146.5 146.5 Staff costs 4 683.1 1.8 681.3 652.0 652.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 59.0 59.0 70.6 70.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 19 6.0 6.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 18 82.2 82.2 50.6 50.6 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 17, 18 52.7 52.7 59.2 59.2 Rental of property 19.5 19.5 28.4 28.4 Other property costs 44.2 0.2 44.0 35.3 35.3 Rental of plant and equipment 6.9 6.9 6.4 6.4 Foreign exchange translation differences 1.6 1.6 0.1 0.1 Venue and delegate costs 55.1 55.1 48.7 48.7 Editorial and production costs 71.0 0.8 70.2 69.5 69.5 Commissions payable 59.2 1.2 58.0 52.0 52.0 Other expenses 393.5 0.2 393.3 432.0 432.0 160.2 0.8 159.4 149.5 149.5 In the prior period the Group included distribution and transportation costs, promotion and marketing costs, venue and delegate costs, editorial and production costs, other property costs and commissions payable within other external charges.
These have been analysed separately to give users a better understanding of the nature of the costs incurred by the Group.
The balance of items included within other external charges have now been included within the heading Other expenses together with items previously classified as other operating charges.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 80 continued 3 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED The total remuneration of the Groups auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, and its associates is analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.4 2.0 Total audit fees 2.7 2.3 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Transaction support services 0.4 3.0 Tax services 0.6 1.2 Other services 2.2 3.3 Total non-audit fees 3.3 7.6 6.0 9.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
4 EMPLOYEES 2007 2006 Number Number Average number of persons employed by the Group by activity including Directors: National newspapers and related activities 4,447 3,871 Local media 5,618 6,871 Business information 2,995 4,115 Euromoney 2,332 1,754 Exhibitions and related activities 851 816 Radio 507 500 Group operations 89 85 16,839 18,012 2007 2006 Note m m Total staff costs comprised: Wages and salaries 581.3 557.6 Share-based payments 39 18.1 11.6 Social security costs 50.8 48.4 Pension costs 31.1 34.4 681.3 652.0 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 81 continued 5 SHARE OF RESULTS OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2007 2006 m m Share of profits before finance costs and tax from joint ventures 2.4 2.2 Share of profits before finance costs and tax from associates 3.6 6.5 Share of associates other gains and losses 0.6 Before amortisation, impairment of goodwill, interest and tax 6.6 8.7 Share of amortisation of intangibles of joint ventures 0.7 0.9 Share of amortisation of intangibles of associates 3.2 Impairment of goodwill of associates 0.6 Share of associates interest receivable 0.1 0.2 Share of joint ventures tax 0.5 1.0 Share of associates tax 0.5 0.8 1.8 5.6 Share of results from operations of joint ventures 1.2 0.3 Share of results from operations of associates 0.6 5.3 1.8 5.6 6 OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES 2007 2006 Note m m Profit on sale of trading investments 0.7 17.0 Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 1.2 9.0 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 21 13.0 Profit on sale of businesses 16 15.2 174.8 Recycled impairment loss of GCap Media plc 36 24.4 Profit on deemed part disposal of Euromoney 42.4 Profit on sale and deemed disposal of joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.8 35.7 188.6 The profit on sale of businesses mainly comprises 11.6 million profit on sale of Buy and Sell by the national newspapers division together with 1.8 million profit on sale of Raven Fox by Euromoney.
No tax is due on the sale of Buy and Sell due to the availability of a statutory exemption.
A tax charge of 0.2 million arose on the sale of Raven Fox after utilisation of capital losses brought forward and a charge of 1.9 million on the sale of Med Ad.
The profit on deemed part disposal of Euromoney arose following Euromoneys issue of 65.0 million new share capital to the shareholders of Metal Bulletin plc note 15, thereby reducing the Groups interest in Euromoney.
In the prior year the profit on sale of businesses mainly comprises 106.7 million profit on sale of Aberdeen Journals Limited and 68.1 million profit on sale of Study Group Limited.
The profit on sale of trading investments occurred on the disposal of shares in Reuters Group plc.
7 INVESTMENT INCOME 2007 2006 m m Dividend income Available-for-sale investments Reuters Group plc 0.5 The Press Association Limited 0.2 0.4 AMI 0.3 GCap Media plc 1.0 2.3 Interest receivable Short-term deposits 5.5 3.9 7.0 7.1 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 82 continued 8 FINANCE COSTS 2007 2006 Note m m Interest payable on loans and bonds 67.4 61.5 Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 Change in fair value of derivatives not designated for hedge accounting 0.3 0.4 Premium on repurchase of bonds 2.6 Tax equalisation swap income 15.6 27.7 Foreign exchange loss on intra-group financing 4.7 2.2 Premium on purchase of options 3.4 Change in fair value of acquisition put options 3.8 0.9 Change in fair value of derivative hedge of bond 3.0 2.3 Change in fair value of hedged portion of bond 3.0 2.3 Finance charge on discounting of deferred consideration 33 2.8 2.7 61.8 39.3 Tax equalisation swap income includes 10.3 million of foreign exchange losses on hedges of intra-group financing 2006 Gain 17.1 million.
This foreign exchange loss is excluded from adjusted profit as an equal and opposite credit 2006 charge is excluded from the adjusted tax charge.
In addition the foreign exchange loss on intra-group financing, premium on repurchase of bonds and the change in fair value of acquisition put options are also excluded from adjusted profits note 11.
The finance charge on the discounting of deferred consideration arose from the requirement under IFRS 3, Business Combinations to discount deferred consideration back to current values.
9 TAX 2007 2006 m m The charge on the profit for the year consists of: UK Corporation tax at 30% 2006 30% 41.9 65.2 Adjustments in respect of prior year 29.4 11.6 12.5 53.6 Overseas taxation Corporation taxes 18.8 11.4 Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.2 2.8 Total current taxation 31.1 67.8 Deferred tax Origination and reversals of timing differences 13.7 2.3 Adjustments in respect of prior year 2.9 5.5 Total deferred tax 10.8 7.8 20.3 60.0 Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure which makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
As such the Group does not report to management a segmental analysis of the tax charge in the income statement.
The tax charge is reviewed and measured on a Group total basis only.
A current tax credit of 0.3 million 2006 charge 0.3 million was charged directly to equity note 36.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 83 continued 9 TAX CONTINUED The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2006 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 142.1 311.5 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of 30% 42.6 93.5 Effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes: Amortisation of intangible assets 8.5 9.7 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 9.7 17.7 Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6.6 24.2 Additional items deductible for tax purposes 14.7 0.5 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 2.9 19.3 Non-taxable income 0.4 1.1 Effect of overseas tax rates 2.5 0.5 Effect of associates tax 0.5 1.8 Tax losses unrelieved 6.1 5.9 Write off disposal of subsidiaries 11.2 54.5 Adjustment in respect of prior years 26.7 14.3 Other 0.7 Total tax charge on the profit for the year 20.3 60.0 The underlying tax on profits before amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, and non-recurring items amounted to 75.9 million 2006 62.0 million and the resulting rate is 26.3% 2006 23.9%.
There was a tax credit of 55.6 million 2006 2.0 million relating to exceptional and non-recurring items in the current and prior years.
This included a credit of 27.4 million 2006 14.0 million following the agreement of certain prior year open issues with the UK HM Revenue and Customs, a credit of 10.3 million 2006 charge of 20.9 million on foreign exchange gains in respect of tax on foreign exchange losses, a credit of 14.0 million on amortisation 2006 8.4 million, a credit of 1.8 million 2006 1.2 million on fixed asset write downs, a credit of 4.8 million 2006 7.4 million on operating costs, and a charge of 2.7 million 2006 8.1 million on the sale of subsidiaries.
The net prior year credit of 26.7 million 2006 14.3 million arose largely from the agreement of certain prior year open issues with the UK HM Revenue & Customs and a reassessment of the level of tax provisions required.
A credit of 10.3 million relating to tax on foreign exchange losses 2006 charge of 17.1 million on foreign exchange gains has been treated as exceptional as it is hedged by foreign exchange losses of 10.3 million 2006 gains of 17.1 million on tax equalisation swaps included within finance costs see note 8.
10 DIVIDENDS PAID 2007 2006 Pence Pence per share m per share m Amounts recognisable as distributions to equity holders in the period Ordinary shares final dividend for the year ended 1st October, 2006 9.00 1.8 8.25 1.6 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares final dividend for the year ended 1st October, 2006 9.00 33.2 8.25 30.9 35.0 32.5 Ordinary shares interim dividend for the year ended 30th September, 2007 4.45 0.9 4.05 0.9 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares interim dividend for the year ended 1st April, 2007 4.45 16.7 4.05 15.2 17.6 16.1 13.45 52.6 12.30 48.6 The Board has declared a final dividend of 9.90 p per A Ordinary Non-Voting share 2006 9.00p which will absorb an estimated 38.5 million of shareholders funds for which no liability has been recognised in these financial statements.
It will be paid on 8th February, 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30th November, 2007.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 84 continued 11 ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL OPERATING COSTS, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES AND EXCEPTIONAL FINANCING COSTS, AFTER TAXATION AND MINORITY INTERESTS 2007 2006 Note m m Profit before tax continuing 142.1 311.5 Profit before tax discontinued 25 0.8 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets in Group and in joint ventures and associates 3, 5 86.0 51.5 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in Group and in associates 3, 5 52.7 59.8 Exceptional operating costs 3 28.1 41.1 Other gains and losses: Profit on sale of trading investments 6 0.7 17.0 Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 6 1.2 9.0 Profit on sale of businesses 6 15.2 174.8 Profit on deemed part disposal of Euromoney 6 42.4 Profit on sale and deemed disposal of joint ventures and associates 6 0.6 0.8 Share of associates other gains and losses 5 0.6 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 6 13.0 Recycle impairment loss of GCap Media plc 6 24.4 Finance costs: Foreign exchange losses gains on tax equalisation swaps and associated intra-group balances 8 15.0 15.6 Change in fair value of put options 8 3.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 8 2.6 Taxation: Share of taxation in joint ventures and associates 5 1.0 Profit before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and taxation 288.2 259.7 Taxation charge 9 75.9 62.0 Interest of minority shareholders 19.8 14.8 Adjusted profit after tax 192.5 182.9 The adjusted minority share of profits for the year of 19.8 million 2006 14.8 million is stated after eliminating a credit of 4.5 million 2006 3.1 million, being the minority share of exceptional items.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 85 continued 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share of 27.3p 2006 60.8p and diluted earnings per share of 27.1p 2006 60.7p are calculated, in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, on Group profit for the financial year of 107.0 million 2006 239.8 million and on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, as set out below.
As in previous years, adjusted earnings per share have also been disclosed since the Directors consider that this alternative measure gives a more comparable indication of the Groups underlying trading performance.
Adjusted earnings per share of 49.3p 2006 46.4p are calculated on profit before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, after charging the taxation and minority interests associated with those profits, of 192.5 million 2006 182.9 million, as set out in note 11 above, and on the basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2007 2006 pence pence per share per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 27.3 60.8 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 0.1 Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 27.4 60.8 Adjustments: Amortisation of intangible assets in Group profit from operations and in joint ventures and associates 22.0 13.1 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 13.5 15.2 Exceptional operating costs 7.2 10.4 Other gains and losses: Profit on sale of trading investments 0.2 6.6 Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 0.3 44.3 Profit on sale of businesses 3.9 Profit on deemed part disposal of Euromoney 10.9 Profit on sale and deemed disposal of joint ventures and associates 0.2 0.2 Share of associates other gains and losses 0.2 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 3.3 Recycle impairment loss of of GCap Media plc 6.3 Finance costs: Foreign exchange losses gains on tax equalisation swaps and associated intra-group balances 3.9 4.0 Change in fair value of put options 1.0 Premium on repurchase of bonds 0.7 Taxation: Share of taxation in joint ventures and associates 0.3 Taxation on exceptional operating items 14.2 0.5 Interest of minority shareholders 1.1 0.8 Adjusted earnings per share before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, other gains and losses and exceptional financing costs after taxation and minority interests 49.3 46.4 The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year for the purpose of these calculations is as follows: 2007 2006 No.
million million Weighted average number of shares Number of ordinary shares in issue 396.6 401.6 Shares held in Treasury 6.3 7.2 Basic earnings per share denominator 390.3 394.4 Effect of dilutive share options 0.7 0.9 Dilutive earnings per share denominator 391.0 395.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 86 13 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT On Issued on At Change in acquisition of acquisition of Foreign Other At beginning Cash mark to Metal Bulletin subsidiaries exchange non-cash end of year flow market value Note 15 Note 15 movements movements of year Note m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 26 97.3 25.6 1.3 70.4 Bank overdrafts 1.2 5.6 0.4 6.4 Net cash and cash equivalents 96.1 31.2 0.9 64.0 Debt due within one year 11.1 17.1 12.6 21.5 0.1 8.6 36.8 Debt due after one year Bonds 653.9 188.4 3.0 0.8 838.5 Bank loans 178.1 40.4 3.4 9.9 144.2 843.1 130.9 3.0 12.6 21.5 3.3 17.7 1,019.5 Effect of derivatives on bank debt 8.8 0.7 3.0 5.1 Net debt 738.2 162.8 12.6 21.5 2.4 17.7 950.4 During the year the Group issued a new 20 year 6.375% 200 million bond and received proceeds amounting to 197.8 million after costs amounting to 2.2 million were deducted.
The Group also redeemed 9.4 million of its existing 10% 2021 bonds at a cost of 12.6 million, a premium of 2.6 million.
Other non-cash movements in respect of debt due within one year arose following the vendors decision to take a loan note alternative to satisfy the deferred consideration balance on certain prior year acquisitions note 33.
Other non-cash movements in respect of bonds comprises the unwinding of premium of 1.1 million 2006 1.0 million offset by the amortisation of issue costs of 0.3 million 2006 0.3 million.
Other non-cash movements in respect of bank loans comprises interest added to principle of 9.9 million 2006 nil.
14 ANALYSIS OF MOVEMENTS IN CASH IN RESPECT OF ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 2007 2006 Note m m Acquisitions Cash consideration including acquisition expenses of 2.4 million 2006 3.9 million 15 295.8 260.8 Cash paid in respect of consideration deferred from prior years 33 29.6 36.5 Cash and cash equivalents acquired with subsidiaries 15 13.1 3.9 312.3 293.4 Cash paid in respect of consideration deferred from prior years was mainly in respect of the business information division.
During the year, the Group acquired businesses which had contributed 3.2 million to the Groups net operating cash flows, received 15.4 million in respect of investing activities and paid 10.7 million in respect of financing activities.
2007 2006 Note m m Disposals Cash consideration 16 41.8 186.5 Cash and cash equivalents disposed with subsidiaries 16 4.8 37.0 186.5 During the year, the Group disposed of businesses which contributed 2.5 million to the Groups net operating cashflows and paid 3.9 million in respect of financing activities.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 87 continued 15 SUMMARY OF THE EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS On 6th October, 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Metal Bulletin plc Metal Bulletin for a consideration of 239.6 million.
Metal Bulletin is the parent company of a group of companies operating as a leading global information provider of must-have market sensitive data in niche, business to business markets.
Its revenues are derived from a range of publications, electronic products and services, conferences, research and ancillary functions provided to customers.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The Directors have adjusted the consolidated balance sheet of Metal Bulletin at 6th October, 2006 for adjustments which they believe more accurately represent the fair value of the assets at acquisition.
The fair values in the Groups interim report were provisional and have been finalised during the second half of the year.
The intangibles acquired represent trade marks, subscriber relationships, advertiser relationships and databases for which amortisation of 12.9 million has been charged in the year.
Goodwill is attributable to the deemed value of the workforce and anticipated future operating synergies.
Non-current liabilities include primarily a deferred tax liability arising on the intangible assets.
The Metal Bulletin group contributed 54.5 million to the Groups revenue, 21.0 million to the Groups operating profit and 10.1 million to the Groups profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and 30th September, 2007.
The impact of the acquisition on business net assets was: Metal Accounting Metal Bulletin policy Fair value Bulletin at book value alignments adjustments fair value Note m m m m Goodwill 17 32.4 147.2 179.6 Intangible assets 18 6.6 133.0 139.6 Property, plant and equipment 19 3.1 1.4 1.7 Assets held for resale 6.8 6.8 Deferred tax assets 34 0.4 0.4 0.5 1.3 Current assets 9.2 4.1 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.8 2.8 Trade creditors and other payables 24.3 0.7 25.0 Other current liabilities 6.0 0.1 6.1 Debt due within one year 13 12.6 12.6 Deferred tax liabilities 34 0.3 43.3 43.6 Post employment benefits 32 2.4 1.6 4.0 Other non-current liabilities 6.0 6.0 Total net assets acquired 2.9 1.2 237.9 239.6 Minority share of net assets acquired 93.0 Group share of net assets acquired 146.6 Cash paid in Cash paid in Non-cash prior period current period Total Cost of acquisition Note m m m m Reclassification of available-for-sale investment 21 20.1 1.5 21.6 Shares issued by Euromoney 65.0 65.0 Loan notes 13 12.7 12.7 Cash 14 134.9 134.9 Consideration at fair value 77.7 20.1 136.4 234.2 Directly attributable costs 14 5.4 5.4 Total cost of acquisition 77.7 20.1 141.8 239.6 The minority share of cash debt financing amounts to 70.3 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 88 continued 15 SUMMARY OF THE EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED Book Fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value Other acquisitions Note m m m Goodwill 17 97.7 97.7 Intangible assets 18 83.5 83.5 Property, plant and equipment 19 2.9 0.4 2.5 Current assets 21.5 21.5 Cash and cash equivalents 10.3 10.3 Trade creditors and other payables 6.5 6.5 Tax 1.2 1.2 Deferred tax 34 0.1 11.8 11.9 Total net assets acquired 26.9 169.0 195.9 Minority share of net assets acquired 37 2.3 Group share of net assets acquired 193.6 Cash paid in Non-cash current period Total Cost of other acquisitions Note m m m Reclassification of investment in associate 20 5.3 5.3 Deferred consideration 33 27.8 27.8 Loan notes 13 8.8 8.8 Cash 14 151.6 151.6 Consideration at fair value 41.9 151.6 193.5 Directly attributable costs 14 2.4 2.4 Total cost of acquisition 41.9 154.0 195.9 The other notable acquisitions completed during the period, the percentage of voting rights acquired, the dates of acquisition and the goodwill arising were as follows: Intangible Consideration fixed assets Goodwill % voting rights Date of Business paid acquired acquired Name of acquisition acquired acquisition description m m m Total Derivatives 67% October Online derivatives 2006 information provider 7.3 6.9 3.8 Tau on line Croatia 60% March 2007 Online recruitment 10.3 4.7 5.6 Quest 100% July 2007 Property information software provider 35.7 17.3 22.1 Kent Regional Newspapers, East Surrey and Sussex Newspapers and Blackmore Vale Publishing 100% July 2007 Regional Newspapers 65.2 36.7 28.2 Jobsgroup 100% August 2007 Online recruitment 15.2 6.5 8.4 Apply Yourself US 100% September Online college 2007 application provider 13.2 6.3 10.0 If all acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the year would have been 2,277.9 million and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 112.0 million.
Total profit attributable to equity holders of the parent since the date of acquisition for companies acquired during the period amounted to 4.7 million.
The aggregate consideration for these and other businesses was 435.5 million, of which 295.8 million was paid in cash during the year, 25.4 million paid in cash in the prior period, 21.5 million issued in the form of loan notes, 65.0 million issued in the form of shares and an estimated amount of 27.8 million payable in the form of deferred consideration, depending upon trading results.
This deferred consideration has been discounted back to current values in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
In each case, the Group has used acquisition accounting to account for the purchase.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
