COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 139 as at 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 Note m m FIXED ASSETS Intangible fixed assets 4 126.9 134.1 Tangible fixed assets 5 0.6 0.8 Investments: Group undertakings 6 1,861.1 1,670.7 Other investments 7 1.1 1.0 1,862.2 1,671.7 CURRENT ASSETS Debtors 8 172.4 84.4 Cash and cash equivalents 9 0.1 1.5 172.5 85.9 CREDITORS: Amounts falling due within one year Trade and other payables 10 153.5 240.0 Net current assets liabilities 19.0 154.1 Total assets less current liabilities 2,008.7 1,652.5 CREDITORS: Amounts falling due after more than one year Financial liabilities 11 914.2 692.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 12 1.3 1.7 Net Assets 1,093.2 958.1 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Called up share capital 35 49.4 50.2 Share premium account 14 12.4 9.7 Shares held in treasury 14 44.4 63.1 Capital redemption reserve 15 0.8 Profit and loss account 16 1,075.0 961.3 Equity shareholders funds 1,093.2 958.1 The accounts on pages 139 to 147 were approved by the Directors and authorised for issue on 20th November, 2007.
They were signed on their behalf by: ROTHERMERE C J F SINCLAIR Directors Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 140 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the under the historical cost convention, modified to include the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as computations in periods different from those in which they are described below, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are Profit for the financial year recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a that they will be recovered.
separate profit and loss account for the Company has not been included in these accounts.
The Companys profit after tax for the Financial instruments year, calculated on a UK GAAP basis, was 157.8 million 2006 The Company uses various derivative financial instruments to loss 62.1 million.
manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
These have included currency swaps, forward foreign currency 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES contracts, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest rate Intangible assets floors.
The Company considers its derivative financial instruments Impairment reviews of intangible assets are carried out at the end to be hedges and matches them with the relevant hedged item.
of the first financial year after acquisition and where there is any indication of impairment.
When forward foreign exchange contracts or cross currency swaps are used to hedge borrowings, the borrowings hedged are Purchased intangible assets relating to newspaper publishing translated at the year end at the exchange rate implicit within the rights, titles, radio licences and certain other intangible assets are respective derivative.
Any exchange differences arising are taken capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over to the profit and loss account to match the accounting treatment the lower of their useful economic lives, if any, and a period of of exchange gains or losses on the borrowings.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge Tangible fixed assets future revenues or costs, the gain or loss is not recognised until Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less the revenues arise or the costs are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of tangible fixed assets by equal annual instalments Payments or receipts on interest rate swaps, caps or floors are over their estimated useful lives as follows: accrued with interest payable.
The derivatives are not revalued.
Arrangement fees on bonds are amortised over the estimated life Plant and equipment 3 to 25 years of the bonds.
Foreign exchange Financial liabilities and equity instruments Exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company derivative financial instruments, which are used to provide a are classified according to the substance of the contractual hedge against foreign currency investments, are also taken to arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial reserves to the extent that they match exchange differences on liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any the investments to which they relate.
Other transactions in foreign contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
transaction, or at the contracted rate where a related hedging contract exists.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Capital market and bank borrowings foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All such exchange value which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
measured at amortised costs, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a Investments fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings for impairment, where appropriate.
is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
Other investments which are classified as either held for trading Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount or available-for-sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable dates at fair value.
Where securities are held for trading right to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and liability purposes, gain and losses arising from changes in fair value are simultaneously.
included in net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value Financial assets are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of Trade receivables or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated profit or loss for the period.
Taxation Trade payables Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the nominal value.
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full The Company has no significant long-term trade receivables or on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance trade payables.
sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 141 continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED i Hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and Available-for-sale investments liabilities fair value hedges : or Investments and financial assets are recognised and fiderecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an ii Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of hedges.
the investment within the time frame established by the market concerned, and are measured at fair value, including transaction FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement costs.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss Investments are classified as either held-for-trading or availableaccount, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged for-sale.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, designated and qualify as net investment hedges or cash flow gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised hedges are recognised in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting, directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined the hedging relationship must be expected to be effective, be to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss designated and documented at its inception and throughout the previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss life of the hedge relationship.
The fair value of listed securities is determined based on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on When the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or management's estimate of fair value determined by discounting exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, hedge future cash flows to net present value using market interest rates accounting is discontinued.
The net cumulative gain or loss prevailing at the year end.
recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period when the net investment is sold or when the hedged cash Cash and cash equivalents flow is no longer expected to occur.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, short-term deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are Fair value hedges readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to The Companys policy is to use derivative instruments primarily an insignificant risk of changes in value.
interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk with changes Financial liabilities and equity instruments in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the profit and Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company loss account for the period together with the changes in the fair are classified according to the substance of the contractual value of the hedged item, to the extent the hedge is effective.
The arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any account.
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
The accounting Cash flow hedges policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that instruments are set out below : are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is Capital market and bank borrowings recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair Companys policy with respect to hedging the foreign currency value which is equal to net proceeds at inception, and are risk of a firm commitment is to designate it as a cash flow hedge.
subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective If a hedged firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, that the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains and net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an Equity instruments asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the the profit and loss account in the same period in which the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
hedged item affects the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Share-based payments The Company's activities expose it to the financial risks of The Company operates the Groups LTIP and other Group changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
share-based payment schemes, details of which can be found in note 39 of the Groups Report and Accounts.
The Company has The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group's followed the guidance set out in UITF 44 where the Company policies, which are set out on pages 33 to 35 of the Financial and issues shares in relation to share options granted to Directors and Treasury Review and approved by the Board of Directors, which employees for services rendered to the Companys subsidiaries.
provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives The Company records an additional investment in its subsidiaries consistent with the Companys risk management strategy.
The by way of a capital contribution when issuing shares in relation to Company does not use derivative financial instruments for these share option schemes.
No prior period adjustment has been speculative purposes.
recorded as the amounts involved are not material.
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value at the date the derivatives are entered into and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value is determined by using market data and the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cashflow and option valuation models.
The Company designates certain derivatives as: Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 142 continued 3 EMPLOYEES 2007 2006 Number Number Average number of persons employed by the Company by activity including Directors: 11 11 2007 2006 m m Total staff costs comprised: Wages and salaries 5.4 4.5 Share-based payments 2.1 1.6 Social security costs 0.6 0.3 Pension costs 0.3 0.5 8.4 6.9 4 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Trade marks m Cost At beginning and end of year 146.0 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 11.9 Charge for the year 7.2 At end of year 19.1 Net book value 2006 134.1 Net book value 2007 126.9 Trademarks are amortised over the lower of their useful economic life, which is no more than 20 years.
5 TANGIBLE ASSETS Plant and equipment m Cost At beginning and end of year 0.8 Accumulated depreciation At beginning of year Charge for the year 0.2 At end of year 0.2 Net book value 2006 0.8 Net book value 2007 0.6 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 143 continued 6 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP UNDERTAKINGS AS LISTED ON PAGES 131 TO 135 Cost Provision Net book value m m m At beginning of year 1,672.4 1.7 1,670.7 Additions 190.4 190.4 At end of year 1,862.8 1.7 1,861.1 Additions include 2.7 million recorded as a capital contribution to the Companys subsidiaries on issuance of shares to employees of the Companys subsidiaries.
7 OTHER INVESTMENTS m Cost or valuation At beginning of year 1.0 Exchange adjustment 0.1 At end of year 1.1 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are held as available-for-sale.
They are recorded at fair value and are analysed as follows: 2007 2006 m m Unlisted JEGI Internet Economy Partners, L. P. 1.1 1.0 The Company owns a 23% share of the partnership capital.
8 DEBTORS 2007 2006 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade debtors 2.9 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 88.6 Prepayments and accrued income 1.5 1.2 Corporation tax 67.1 59.4 Derivative financial assets 12.3 22.8 Other debtors 1.0 172.4 84.4 The Company's corporation tax debtor represents amounts due from subsidiaries for Group relief and payments made to UK HM Revenue and Customs on account of the 2006 liability.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 144 continued 9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2007 2006 m m Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 1.5 10 CREDITORS DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 2007 2006 m m Bank overdrafts 2.7 Loan notes 2.8 3.2 Interest payable 32.9 30.3 Amounts owing to Group undertakings 112.3 203.2 Accruals and deferred income 2.2 1.0 Derivative financial liabilities 0.6 2.3 153.5 240.0 Loan notes attract interest at approximately LIBID to LIBID minus 1% and were issued as part of the consideration for various acquisitions.
The loan notes are repayable at the option of the loan note holder.
The issue costs, premia and discounts are being amortised over the expected lives of the bonds using the effective interest method.
The unamortised issue costs amount to 3.7 million 2006 3.2 million and the unamortised premia amounts to 16.2 million 2006 19.4 million.
Details of the fair value of the Companys bonds are set out in note 31 on page 106 of the Groups financial statements.
The book value of the Companys other borrowings equates to fair value.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 145 continued 11 CREDITORS DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR CONTINUED The Company's bank loans are denominated in US dollars and Sterling.
The interest rates on these borrowings ranged as follows: 2007 2007 2006 2006 High Low High Low %% %% Sterling 7.30 4.23 5.61 4.72 US dollar 6.23 5.32 4.23 4.07 The maturity profile of the Company's borrowings is as follows: Overdrafts Bank loans Bonds Loan notes Total m m m m m 2007 Within one year 2.7 2.8 5.5 Between one and two years Between two and five years 67.6 67.6 Over five years 838.5 838.5 67.6 838.5 906.1 2.7 67.6 838.5 2.8 911.6 2006 Within one year 3.2 3.2 Between one and two years Between two and five years 38.8 38.8 Over five years 653.9 653.9 38.8 653.9 692.7 38.8 653.9 3.2 695.9 12 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 2007 2006 Note m m Deferred taxation 13 0.2 0.2 Other provisions 1.1 1.5 1.3 1.7 13 DEFERRED TAXATION 2007 2006 m m Other timing differences 0.2 0.2 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 146 continued 13 DEFERRED TAXATION CONTINUED Movements on the provision for deferred taxation were as follows: 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 0.2 LTIP charge 0.1 0.1 Net credit charge to profit and loss account 0.1 0.1 At end of year 0.2 0.2 14 RESERVES 2007 2006 m m Share premium account At beginning of year 9.7 8.3 Issued on shares 2.7 1.4 At end of year 12.4 9.7 Shares held in treasury 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 63.1 40.0 Additions 32.8 32.4 Own shares released on vesting of share options 4.9 9.3 Own shares cancelled 46.6 At end of year 44.4 63.1 The Company's investment in its own shares is classified within shareholders' funds as Shares held in treasury.
At 30th September, 2007 this investment comprised the cost of 6,353,906 'A' Ordinary Non-Voting shares 2006 9,692,016 shares.
The market value of these shares at 30th September, 2007 was 40.0 million 2006 58.8 million.
The treasury shares are considered to be a realised loss for the purposes of calculating distributable reserves.
15 CAPITAL REDEMPTION RESERVE 2007 m At beginning of year On cancellation of ordinary shares 0.8 At end of year 0.8 Daily Mail and General Trust plc NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 147 continued 16 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 2007 m At beginning of year 961.3 Net profit for the year 211.0 Dividends paid 53.2 On cancellation of ordinary shares 46.6 Other movements on share option schemes 2.5 At end of year 1,075.0 Total reserves 2006 907.8 Total reserves 2007 1,043.8 The Company estimates that 596.1 million of the Company's profit and loss account reserve is not distributable 2006 596.1 million.
17 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES At 30th September, 2007 the Company had guaranteed borrowing facilities of subsidiaries under which 82.9 million 2006 144.1 million were outstanding.
The Company had also guaranteed a subsidiary's interest rate derivatives with a principal value of 186.9 million 2006 353.6 million and letters of credit of 5.7 million 2006 6.6 million.
18 CONTROLLING PARTY The Companys ultimate controlling party is the Viscount Rothermere, the Companys Chairman.
Transactions relating to the remuneration and shareholdings of the Viscount Rothermere are given in the Remuneration Report.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 148 COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE notification by email of the release of the Half yearly and Annual Reports.
It also offers practical help on matters such as N D Jennings, FCA transferring shares or updating your own details.
Shareholders Northcliffe House may register for the service at www.
2 Derry Street London This report is available electronically on the Company's website W8 5TT which contains a link to Shareview to enable shareholders to England register for electronic mailings.
Notification by email has been given of the availability of this Annual Report on the Company's Registered Number: 184594 website to those shareholders who have registered.
WEBSITE LOW COST SHARE DEALING SERVICE The Group has an internet website which gives information on the The Company has arranged with its brokers, JP Morgan Cazenove Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides details of Limited, to provide a simple, low-cost share dealing service for A significant Group announcements.
It also has a site giving details Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
of job opportunities within the Group.
The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both THE ADDRESSES ARE: purchases and sales subject to a minimum commission of 10 www.
co. uk per transaction : reduced commission rates for transactions over www.
com 5,000: and no minimum investment.
For further details, please contact JP Morgan Cazenove Limited, Company Share Schemes, at 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA: the telephone number is 020 7155 5155.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2008 Equiniti also provide a simple low cost dealing service for Ordinary 9th January Annual Report published and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares details of which are available 6th February Annual General Meeting at www.
8th February Payment of final dividend Details of these and other low cost dealing services can be found By mid-February Interim management statements on the Companys website at www.
30th March Half year end LOAN NOTES 31st March Payment of interest on loan notes Loan notes issued by the Company and by Daily Mail and General 22nd May Half year results and dividend announced Investments plc, a subsidiary, are repayable in whole or in part at the option of loan note holders every six months.
Loan note 30th May Half yearly Report published on website holders requiring repayment should complete the redemption 4th June Interim ex-dividend date section on the back of their loan note and send it to reach the Registrars by 28th February or 31st August for repayments on 6th June Interim record date 31st March or 30th September respectively.
4th July Payment of interim dividend By mid-August Interim management statements EUROBOND PAYING AGENT The principal paying agent for the Companys 7.5% Bonds due 28th September Year end 2013, 10% Bonds due 2021 and the 6.375% Bonds due 2027 is 30th September Payment of interest on loan notes Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester St, London EC2N 2DB.
The principal paying agent for the 20th November Annual results and final dividend announced Company's 5.75% Bonds due 2018 is HSBC Bank plc, Corporate 26th November Ex-dividend date Trust and Loan Agency, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
28th November Record date Enquiries should be directed to John Donegan, Group Financial Controller, who can be contacted on 020 7938 6627, and whose CAPITAL GAINS TAX email address is john.
@ The market value of both the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 adjusted for the SHARE PRICE INFORMATION 1994 bonus issue of A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and for the The current price of the Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary Nonfour-for-one share split in 2000 was 9.75 pence.
Voting shares can be found on page 516 of Teletext on analogue Channel 4 and on page 866 of Teletext on digital ITV Freeview and REGISTRARS Satellite.
A graph, illustrating the historical performance of the On 1st October, 2007, the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB A shares, is shown on page 15.
Registrars, changed their name to Equiniti, following their change of ownership.
All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, CREST lost share certificates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Shareholders have the choice either of holding their shares in Mail and General Investments plc, or changes of address should electronic form in an account on the CREST system or in the be directed to Equiniti, at the address set out on page 149. physical form of share certificates.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS INVESTOR RELATIONS Equiniti operate Shareview, a free online service which enables Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas Jennings, shareholders with internet access to check their shareholdings Company Secretary, whose office is responsible for distribution and other related information and to register to receive of the Annual Report.
He is assisted by Fran Sallas.
The investor relations' email address is investor.
@ Daily Mail and General Trust plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 149 continued SHAREGIFT sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax In the UK, DMGT supports ShareGift, which is administered by the implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686 it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
If you would like to and which operates a charity share donation scheme for use ShareGift or receive more information about the scheme, they shareholders wishing to give small holdings of shares to benefit can be contacted by visiting their website at www.
It may be especially useful for those who wish by writing to the Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to London W1K 3HN.
PREDICTING FLOODING WITH NEW Newspaper publishing Operating Profit 2007 SOFTWARE 322m Other businesses TAKING PART IN A CONFERENCE ON EMERGING MARKETS Operating Profit 1997 47% 152m 166m FINDING A JOB 75% 125m ONLINE PARTICIPATING IN LOCAL NEWS THROUGH ONLINE BLOGGING 25% 41m 53% 170m FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ATTENDING THE AD:TECH TECHNOLOGY TRADE REV ENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX EXHIBITION 7% 3% 11% READING A KEY 07 2,235m 07 322m 07 288m 06 2,176m 06 300m 06 260m BUSINESS JOURNAL ONLINE STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE LISTENING TO A 7% 6% 10% RADIO STATION 07 159m 07 49.3p 07 14.35p 06 46.4p 06 13.05p 06 149m Before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items: see Summary Consolidated Income Statement on page 47.
CON TENTS 01 Chairmans Statement 08 Chief Executives Review 17 Associated Newspapers 21 Northcliffe Media 24 DMG Information 26 Euromoney Institutional Investor 28 DMG World Media 29 DMG Radio 30 Financial Review 34 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 37 Board of Directors and Secretary 38 Summary Directors Report 40 Summary Remuneration Report 46 Independent Auditors Statement 47 Summary Consolidated Income Statement 48 Summary Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 48 Summary Reconciliation of Movements in Equity 49 Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 50 Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet 51 Shareholder Information The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT Daily Mail and General Trust plc the Group and the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
For further information the separate publication, entitled Daily Mail and General T 44 0 20 7938 6000 F 44 0 20 7938 4626 W dmgt.
co. uk Annual Review, 30th September, 2007 Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30th September, 2007, containing the Business Review, the Directors Report, the report on Corporate Governance, the Remuneration Report, the financial statements and the Independent Auditors report on those financial statements, which is unqualified, should be consulted.
Copies may be obtained through our website www.
Shareholders wishing Winning in the changed media landscape to receive a free copy of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in future years should write to the Company Secretarys office, Daily Mail and General Trust plc, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT.
DMGT IS ONE OF THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL INTERNATIONAL MEDIA COMPANIES.
WITH INTERESTS IN NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS AND RELATED DIGITAL OPERATIONS, LOCAL MEDIA, BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION, EXHIBITIONS AND RADIO, OUR PURPOSE IS TO ENRICH LIVES THROUGH MEDIA BRANDS THAT INSPIRE, INFORM AND ENTERTAIN.
CO. UK YOU HAVE ACCESS TO MORE INFORMATION ON OUR WEBSITE: DMGTS CORPORATE WEBSITE HAS ACHIEVED AN AAA ACCESSIBILITY RATING IN INDEPENDENT TESTS, THE HIGHEST LEVEL ACHIEVABLE.
IT IS INDEPENDENTLY REGARDED AS ONE OF THE BEST-PROGRAMMED SITES IN THE FTSE 350 INDEX.
DIVISIONAL PERCENTAGE OVERVIEW EMPLOYEES PRINCIPAL HEAD OFFICE DMGT EMPLOYS AROUND 17,000 ACTIVITIES OF REVENUE AT YEAR END BRANDS PEOPLE ALL OVER THE WORLD UK & EUROPE Associated Newspapers is a major Associated Northcliffe Digital reaches Daily Mail Carsource Northcliffe House ASSOCIATED national newspaper publisher which an estimated 28% of all UK internet The Mail on Sunday Find a Property 2 Derry Street NEWSPAPERS 44% 4,762 is also responsible for Teletext and users in the automotive, jobs, Evening Standard Jobsite London W8 5TT for Associated Northcliffe Digital.
property, dating and personal finance Metro Motors.
co. uk England Teletext provides commercial teletext online advertising markets.
London Lite Primelocation Tel 020 7938 6000 services on all the ITV channels, 986m Loot This is London Channel 4 and analogue five and Teletext This is Money operates Teletextholidays.
co. uk, Allegran a leading travel website.
page 17 Northcliffe Media is one of the largest 7 million copies.
Furthermore, South Wales Evening Post Northcliffe House NORTHCLIFFE Evening Post Bristol regional publishing groups in the UK.
Northcliffes network of 47 local thisis Derby Evening Telegraph West Briton Cornwall 2 Derry Street MEDIA 20% 5,636 Operating from 22 publishing centres, websites attracted 2.5 million unique Western Gazette London W8 5TT Essex Chronicle Northcliffe publishes over 100 users with 37.5 million page Hull Daily Mail Somerset England UK 4,837 publications in the UK including 17 impressions in September 2007.
Leicester Mercury Kisalfold Gyor, Hungary Tel 020 7400 1401 OVERSEAS 799 447m paid-for daily titles, 2 free daily titles, Other commercial activities include Nottingham Evening Post Pravda Bratislava, 39 paid-for weeklies and over 60 free international publishing interests in The Sentinel Stoke-onSlovakia weekly newspapers.
The portfolio has Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania Trent a weekly combined circulation of over and Croatia.
page 21 ASIA & AUSTRALASIA DMG DMG Information is the Groups The US accounts for the majority of Risk Management Trepp 3 Stamford Landing business information division, revenues with the UK, Continental Solutions RMS Lewtan Technologies Suite 400 INFORMATION 13% 3,331 providing business-to-business Europe, Japan, India and Australia Environmental Data Sanborn 46 Southfield Avenue information to the property, insurance, representing the other significant Resources Genscape Stamford, Connecticut financial, energy, geo-spatial and geographic markets.
Landmark Information Hobsons CT 06902, USA 293m educational recruitment markets.
Group Tel 001 203 973 2940 Property Portfolio & Research page 24 Euromoney is a leading international Euromoney, Institutional Investor EUROMONEY Euromoney ISI Emerging Markets Nestor House business-to-business media group and Metal Bulletin.
It also runs an Institutional Investor BCA Research Playhouse Yard INSTITUTIONAL 14% 2,160 focused primarily on the international extensive portfolio of conferences, ABOUT DMGT INVESTOR RELATIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Euroweek Metal Bulletin London EC4V 5EX INVESTOR finance, metals and commodities seminars and training courses, and Asiamoney IMN England sectors.
In October 2006 it acquired is a leading provider of electronic Latin Finance Tel 020 7779 8888 dmgt.
co. uk  305m Metal Bulletin plc for 240 million.
information and data on international Total Derivatives Group Overview Financial Announcements The Community It publishes more than 70 magazines, finance, metals and emerging International Financial Board of Directors Financial Calendar The Environment newsletters and journals, including markets.
Law Review DMGT History Share Information Our Employees Petroleum Economist page 26 DMGT Fact File Analyst Consensus Our Readers Reports and Presentations Financial Markets NORTH & SOUTH AMERICA dmg world media is a leadingdmg world m edias operation includes New York International Surf Expo US Suite 255 DMG WORLD Board of Directors For Schools international exhibition and publishing more than 30 offices across the US, Gift Fair US Palm Beach!
US 1100 Larkspur CORPORATE STRUCTURE MEDIA 7% 777 company that produces nearly 300 Canada, the UK, France, the United Daily Mail Ideal Home Gastech Thailand 2008 Landing Circle Shareholder Services market-leading trade exhibitions, Arab Emirates, China, Singapore, Show UK ad:tech US, UK, Europe, Larkspur dmgt.
co. uk corporatestructure Financial Analysis MEDIA CENTRE consumer shows and fairs.
The India, Australia and New Zealand Index and Big 5 Dubai Australasia CA 94939, USA Management Structure Contacts for Investors 164m company also publishes 45 related and additional exhibitions in countries Global Petroleum Show Tel 001 415 464 8500 Associated Newspapers dmgt.
co. uk mediacentre magazines, directories and market such as Switzerland, Germany, Poland, Canada reports.
Morocco, Egypt, Japan, Malaysia, California Gift Show US Northcliffe Media News Releases CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Indonesia, Brazil and Venezuela.
DMG Information Image Library page 28 Euromoney dmgt.
co. uk corporategovernance DMGT Factfile dmg world media Board Remit More under 40 listeners tune into DMG RADIO DMG Radio Australia holds ten radio Nova 969 Sydney Vega 915 Melbourne Level 5 licences, including the national Nova Nova than any other radio station in Nova 100 Melbourne Five AA Adelaide 75 Hindmarsh Square DMG Radio Committee Remits FEEDBACK 2% 542 FM network of stations in Sydney, Australia.
Nova 1069 Brisbane Brisbane 97.3 Joint Adelaide SA 5000 DMGT Memorandum and Articles Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Nova 919 Adelaide venture Australia dmgt.
co. uk contact Perth and the Vega FM stations in Vega, re-launched in 2006, is steadily Nova 937 Perth Star 1045 Central Coast Tel 00 618 8419 5000 40m Sydney and Melbourne.
growing its share of the 40-54 Joint venture demographic, a complementary Vega 953 Sydney audience profile to Nova.
page 29 Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Photography by John Edwards and Nikki English CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 01 WINNING IN A CHANGING MEDIA LANDSCAPE In a time of rapid technological change, DMGTs purpose is to enrich lives with media products that inspire, enthuse and entertain.
At the heart of this mission are our people, their talents, their innovations and the profits they make.
This spirit of innovation extends throughout our businesses.
Newspapers have existed for centuries THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE CHAIRMAN yet, in July, The Mail on Sunday achieved a worlds first by launching a music CD, Princes new album Planet Earth, by distributing it with the paper.
The Mail on Sunday achieved its second highest sale ever: Prince sold out his UK concerts thanks to the publicity.
This was followed in September by the release of a new film through the paper.
EMERGING MEDIA TRENDS DMGT IS CAPITALISING ON THE FOLLOWING MARKET TRENDS: Our Nova radio stations, the first to introduce the MULTI-PLATFORM PUBLISHING concept of no more than two ads in a row, this year GROWTH IN FREE NEWSPAPERS became the first radio network in Australia and one of NEW ELECTRONIC PLATFORMS ACCESSING TV AND VIDEO FOOTAGE ACROSS THE the first in the world to link with Apples iTunes.
This INTERNET IPTV MOBILE TELEPHONY allows listeners to buy and download tracks that they DIGITISING OF OUTDOOR MEDIA hear on the radio straight from Nova websites.
Our newspaper businesses are also innovative in a geographical sense.
Northcliffe has a fast growing business in Central Europe.
We are now a major publisher of both newspapers and online products in Hungary, Slovakia and Croatia.
In partnership with India Today, one of Indias leading media groups, we have recently launched a new mid-market newspaper, Mail Today, aimed at Indias burgeoning middle classes.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 continued Our business information companies continue to perform well by providing their sophisticated customers with the developments they need.
During the year, Risk Management Solutions published new models for the insurance industry on the effects of various natural and man-made catastrophes.
There are ambitious and innovative internal development THE HULL DAILY MAIL BRAND IS BEING LEVERAGED AND programmes in all DMGIs businesses.
EXTENDED TO ENRICH ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY.
ITS NOW AT THE HEART OF A MULTIMEDIA PORTFOLIO INCLUDING We also pride ourselves on the quality of our products.
LOCAL WEBSITES, WHICH ARE HARVESTING NEW REVENUES The journalists on Institutional Investor magazine won five AND STIMULATING VALUABLE INTERACTION.
awards this year more than anyone else from the American JOHN MEEHAN EDITOR, THE HULL DAILY MAIL Society of Business Publication Editors.
The website accompanying ad:tech dmg world medias exhibition and conference for digital marketing, was named as Best Overall and as Best Use of Technology at the industrys Tradeshow Website Awards.
Such initiatives, as well as continuing to do better what we have always done, have enabled us to produce another 28% OF ALL UK INTERNET USERS USE ASSOCIATED NORTHCLIFFE DIGITAL record result.
Revenues were up 3% to over 2.2 billion AND WEBSITES and adjusted profit before tax, the measure we believe is the best indication of our progress, was up 11% to 288 million.
We have proposed a further 10% increase in the final dividend, maintaining our long-standing record of steady real growth in our payments to shareholders.
The cash flow that our newspapers generate is prodigious.
It enables us to develop our digital and business-to-business operations in order to produce a better balance across the Group and to enjoy the resilience this diversification gives us.
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 03 continued TODAY 1 2 3 4 56 7 8 90 QW E R T Y U I O P ASD F G H J K L ZX C V B N M, .
OUR RANGE OF DIGITAL SERVICES IS GROWING The Groups print products are increasingly migrating to a digital platform, which provides excellent opportunities to enhance growth through the launch of new products.
Euromoneys revenue from electronic subscriptions has grown by more than 150% since 2006.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 04 continued 18.2% 2.3m THE MAIL ON AVERAGE MONTHLY SUNDAYS RECORD CIRCULATION FOR MARKET SHARE THE MAIL ON SUNDAY DEVELOPING BUSINESS PARTNERSHIPS REVERSING THE TREND OF NEWSPAPER DECLINE On 15th July 2007, The Mail on Sunday revolutionised the music industry by giving away the new Prince album, Planet Earth, absolutely free.
This first for the newspaper industry saw sales of The Mail on Sunday rocket to 2.9 million, an increase of 20% on previous weeks.
It then continued this trend by giving away the latest Vinnie Jones film, The Riddle, on DVD.
Again, this was the first time a new film had been given away free with a newspaper.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 05 continued We shall continue to follow our strategy and we believe the 300,000 NEARLY 300,000 RAISED BY results will continue to justify it.
EUROMONEY TO BUILD AN EYE HOSPITAL IN ORISSA.
Throughout the Group we have been working to minimise our impact on the environment.
External consultants have carried out a full exercise to calculate our carbon footprint and to identify ways to minimise it.
We have also appointed RMS, our own company and a world leader in this field, to review the impact of climate change on our Group and the business risks and opportunities that such change may create.
You can read more about this on pages 34 to 36 of this report, along with details of the extensive community and charitable work the Group and its employees undertake.
I am particularly proud of Euromoneys raising of nearly 300,000 to build an eye hospital in Orissa, one of the poorest regions of India.
I now turn to an unusual event: a change in our Chief Executive.
Charles Sinclair was appointed to this role in December 1987 and is now, 20 years later, the second longest serving Chief Executive in the FTSE 100.
Charles has overseen the transformation of DMGT from when we owned only just under half of the then separately listed Associated Newspapers, through the sale of its non-media interests in the 90s, to the expansion over the last ten years of our business media and online divisions.
He has decided to stand down next September, soon after his 60th birthday.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 06 continued GLOBAL EXPANSION OF RMS THE GROUPS BUSINESS IN CHINA IS GROWING NEWSPAPER PARTNERSHIP WITH INDIA TODAY CHINA JAPAN INDIA GROWING IN THE EMERGING ASIAN MARKETPLACE The potential for growth from the emerging Asian marketplace is high, with Indian GDP per capita alone expected to quadruple between 2007 and 2020.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 07 continued KEY DEVELOPMENTS OVERSEEN I am extremely grateful to Charles.
He has worked closely with BY CHARLES SINCLAIR: both my father and me, and helped me enormously through the 1989 ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS FULLY ACQUIRED difficult time after my fathers death when I became Chairman EARLY SALE OF NON-MEDIA 1990s INTERESTS of DMGT.
I will miss his wise counsel and friendship and I will 1992 TELETEXT LICENCE WON make the most of both in the months before he leaves.
1996 DIVERSIFICATION STRATEGY BEGUN 1997 INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR ACQUIRED He told me of his intention to retire about two years ago, which 1998 RMS AND LANDMARK ACQUIRED has enabled the Nominations Committee to undertake a wide 1999 EDR ACQUIRED 2006 METAL BULLETIN ranging review.
I am delighted that the Committee concluded ACQUIRED 2007 GEORGE LITTLE the best candidate was Martin Morgan, currently the Managing MANAGEMENT FULLY ACQUIRED Director of DMG Information.
Martin has overseen the building of DMG Information into the formidable business it is today and is well qualified to take over as Chief Executive.
I look forward to working with him.
Charles, and every other employee in the Group, has worked hard and well to produce another record result and I thank them all on your behalf.
Meanwhile, DMGT is well placed to continue its impressive progress.
ROTHERMERE Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 08 Chief Executives Review OUR STRATEGY FOR FUTURE SUCCESS CONTINUES TO FOCUS ON THREE KEY AREAS: 1 GROWING OUR BUSINESS-FOCUSED MEDIA INTO STRONG LEADERSHIP POSITIONS 2 CONTINUING TO INVEST IN OUR NEWSPAPER AND PURE PLAY DIGITAL BUSINESSES 3 RUNNING OUR BUSINESSES FASTER CHARLES SINCLAIR INTRODUCTION sustaining good medium long-term CHIEF EXECUTIVE This business review is a summary of returns: and be financed and managed on the Business Review included in the full a prudent risk reward basis.
We are prepared Annual Report and Accounts.
It is framed, to have a long timeframe to investment having in mind the principles and guidelines maturity and realisation, provided the for Operating and Financial Reviews business in question is progressing well, published by the UK Accounting Standards meeting milestones and creating value.
It describes the main operational and financial NATURE OF THE BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY OF INVESTING factors underpinning the development, DMGT is a multiple media business, FOR THE LONG-TERM GROWTH OF THE BUSINESS HAS performance and position of the Group as as illustrated at the front of this Annual RESULTED IN ANOTHER well as those likely to affect performance Review, operating in different markets, RECORD YEAR, REFLECTING THE REBALANCING OF THE over the coming year, illustrating this with each within its particular competitive and GROUPS ASSETS.
Operational responsibility is devolved to our six divisions This Chief Executives Review sets out whose boards the executive Directors chair.
the nature, objectives and strategy of the We operate with a light touch from the Group, together with the principal risks centre, relieving line management of public and uncertainties we face.
It is followed on company activities that do not contribute pages 17 to 29 by a business review of the at the operating level, but strong financial development and performance of each of controls, particularly over capital allocation, our operating divisions.
A Financial Review are retained at the centre.
DMGTs follows on pages 30 to 33. objectives are embedded into the thinking of each of our divisional management teams.
DMGTS PHILOSOPHY DMGTs practice over many years has STRATEGY been to take advantage of its shareholding The Groups objective is to be the owner structure to invest for the long term in of high quality sustainable media properties, order to generate value for its shareholders.
which lead their markets, thereby Control by a founding family is a model generating a premium return for which has been demonstrated to serve the shareholders.
Over the past decade the media industry well over time.
Our strategy strategy has been to continue to sustain takes as given the controlling familys wish and invest in the core UK newspaper that the Groups investments will be media businesses, and to use the surplus cash businesses: be operated with a view to flow and leverage of the Group to acquire Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 09 Chief Executives Review continued or develop high growth media businesses has not changed in recent years.
The DMGT unaffected by the UK advertising market operational model has been generally and regulatory regimes.
By a combination autonomous divisional management, OUR NEWSPAPERS REMAIN of these objectives, we seek to drive up strong incentives based on performance HIGHLY PROFITABLE AND DMGTs overall share rating from the lower and central control of surplus capital and THE DAILY MAIL HAD A RECORD YEAR.
levels attaching to UK newspapers to the of its re-investment.
higher levels attracted by focused subscription-driven business to business Over the last few years, it has become B2B assets.
The Groups overall strategy clear that the Group has needed to be run has progressed over the ten years since.
faster as the pace of change in business Our expertise is in buying early stage has quickened, particularly the threat businesses and taking them forward.
to traditional media forms from new technologies.
We commented last year on DMGTs owner-minded structure has the loss of classified advertising at the allowed it to deploy a consistent capital Evening Standard and the decline of profits allocation plan over time, moving its at Teletext due to structural changes in formidable cash flow progressively away its market.
Both businesses have been from a dependence on UK newspapers.
substantially restructured in the last year.
Our newspapers have done tremendously The need for the Group to go faster led well, faring much better than others, and directly to the decision in 2004 to put a remain highly profitable indeed 2007 was Capital Appreciation Plan into Euromoney a record year for the Daily Mail and we Institutional Investor: the strategic review have continued to invest in them in order of Northcliffe Media during 2005 6: and to to maintain their market-leading positions.
a strategic review of dmg world media FOLLOWING A STRATEGIC But whereas the Groups earnings grew undertaken during this year.
REVIEW OF DMG WORLD strongly in the late 1990s largely due to MEDIA, THERE IS A NEW FOCUS ON THE B2B our newspapers, more recently it is its The motivating impact of the CAP on SECTOR WHERE GROWTH business-focused operations that have Euromoneys senior management has OPPORTUNITIES ARE shown stronger earnings growth.
Hence turbo-charged its performance, after several THE GREATEST.
our strategy has been to gear up and years of flat earnings, leading to the CAP invest beyond our newspapers: in DMG vesting a year early.
We have put long-term Information where performance has incentive plans into other divisions also.
been stellar: and in Euromoney and exhibitions over many years.
In the Our review of dmg world media has led the allocation of capital over the long term, Board to decide to focus on the B2B sector there has been a move towards investment which is growing strongly and where the in B2B operations which we expect growth opportunities are greatest.
Secondly, it decided to accelerate the acquisition of George Little Management As a consequence of this deliberate GLM in order to unlock value through deployment of capital, an increased revenue synergies and increased percentage of the Groups revenues efficiencies, establishing a new business is generated from streams, other than to retail B2R sector, putting gift and surf advertising, principally subscriptions together, in order to build profit: and thirdly and events.
A significant part of the asset it decided to sell the US home shows base is now outside the UK: the Groups within the business to consumer B2C exposure to regulation has been greatly division.
These shows have generated good reduced: and for the first time in 2007 cash flows over the years, but have lower more than a half of its operating profits margins and require greater management were derived other than from newspaper attention.
In the UK, it will seek to publishing, compared to a quarter ten re-fashion the Ideal Home Show which has years ago.
Adjusted operating profit The approach to managing the Groups At Associated Newspapers, we have before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment divisions and those divisions strategies continued to invest in editorial quality.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 10 Chief Executives Review continued The graph on page 19 demonstrates the have been made in the year in making our extent to which the Mail titles have titles more digital.
The companion websites continued to increase their market share, have been fully integrated into the editorial due to their strong brands.
process of our newspaper operations and Mail Online has, from a standing start, Last year, I identified a strategic challenge become the second biggest newspaper to be addressed of Associateds relatively website, backed by the Mails formidable THE MAIL ONLINE IS THE UKS SECOND BIGGEST NEWSPAPER low margins which have a material impact editorial resources.
Mail Online now has WEBSITE.
on the Groups overall margins.
These access to all of the Mails editorial content margins fell in the year because of increased and stories are now broken online.
Further losses in the London publishing market revenue opportunities will emerge as the which is now a key focus of management.
Mail becomes more interactive, getting We have reviewed the Evening Standard closer to its readers in Middle Britain.
and embarked upon a plan to restore it to profitability in the medium term by We have continued to defend and extend establishing itself as the quality London the Groups advertising base regardless evening newspaper.
This plan depends on of format.
DMGTs initial measured forays stabilising revenue after years of decline and into new media proved that newspaper stringent cost control.
Progress has also executives needed to acquire different been made in London Lites business plan.
As a consequence, we used the internet downturn in the early part of the From January 2008 Associated will benefit century to acquire established businesses.
DIGITAL REVENUE GROWTH from the availability of full colour.
It will Our strategy at Associated Northcliffe SINCE 2004 also bear increased production costs from Digital AND has involved investments to 86m 1st October 2007 as a result of the new increase exposure to areas of the online Didcot plant coming online, but we expect advertising market pertinent to Associated.
to receive a reduction in the price of First of all, in April 2004, we acquired 456% INCREASE SINCE 2004 newsprint from 1st January for the first Jobsite which has proved highly successful, time in five years.
There is a continued retaining its passionate management team focus on costs: progress has been made with AND providing the central expertise to 15m in editorial and media buying and further help them grow.
We have built a presence efficiencies will come from external also in the online property, motors and printing and promotions.
The cost base dating markets and through Teletext in of our national newspapers continues to travel.
We have been less successful in adjust to a lower level of revenue growth personal finance where volumes have due to the likely migration online of dropped off and the market has proved display and classified revenues at varying more competitive than we had expected.
Our objective is to meet this challenge without losing the powerful Associated invested 14 million in the year advertising response from an engaged on smaller in-fill acquisitions, bringing to readership, given that the Mail titles have 169 million the total invested in pure play a most envied position in the UK market digital consumer businesses since 2004. and that Associated are efficient producers AND is now one of the leading players in 169m of high quality publications, not low cost the UK digital media industry with old INVESTMENT IN PURE producers like some others.
Associated medias best set of digital consumer PLAY DIGITAL BUSINESSES is growing its enterprise revenue, selling assets, and its objective is to be the SINCE 2004. goods and services to readers.
number one or two player in each chosen market.
To this end, we have invested Associated has talented people who know heavily during the year in growing how to attract people to read their products particularly our property and motors and this will not change.
Our aim is to produce portals in order to take market share from the most entertaining and informative media the pre-eminent industry players.
and we believe that strong trusted brands with premium content will ultimately prevail At Northcliffe Media, we have rein the digital world.
Considerable advances engineered its business over the past two Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 11 Chief Executives Review continued years to create an operation with strong of partnering with the pure plays is capability.
Its revitalised and repositioned that these online businesses must stay business is becoming an integrated ahead in terms of technology and user A REBALANCED PORTFOLIO, provider of local media services.
Its experience if they are to compete in the IMPROVED OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND A RENEWED strategy within the UK is focused on digital marketplace.
As they develop their SENSE OF PURPOSE HAVE meeting local reader and advertiser platforms, the enhanced functionality is REVITALISED NORTHCLIFFE.
requirements across a variety of media immediately available to all of Northcliffes formats.
Digital publishing is a key sites and, thus, all of Northcliffes users component.
Overseas, it has expanded and customers.
within the emerging economies of Central Europe where there are good growth Last year, I identified a further objective prospects in print and online.
It is of Northcliffe needing to defend its focused on generating profitable revenue newspaper circulations.
These experienced growth and has built a resilient business disappointing declines in 2007, particularly model which has the potential to generate in the weekly titles which are now subject solid and steady revenue performance.
to renewed focus to understand the underlying causes.
The key steps leading up to a revitalised Northcliffe, allowing us to run the business At DMG Information we invested a faster, were re-balancing its portfolio: further 54 million in the year, mainly on delivering improved operational efficiency strengthening its property division through through its Aim Higher programme and the acquisition of Quest, making a total of instilling a renewed sense of purpose 474 million since 1996 net of disposals.
The cost This year the business made another record 15% reduction target of 45 million per annum operating profit and maintained the APPROXIMATE ANNUAL GROWTH EXPECTED OVER THE was achieved in the year.
impressive growth in its profits from a NEXT FIVE YEARS AT DMGI.
standing start in 1998, illustrated on page Northcliffe is now focused on its core 25, which is such a credit to its management publishing capability and has created team based in the US.
Its strategy will geographical synergies through remain focused on investing in those regionalisation.
In June it disposed of its companies with attractive business model non-core retail business.
The acquisition characteristics, strong market positions, of titles from Trinity Mirror plc in the South growth potential and good management.
We of England in July created critical mass for expect DMGI to continue to grow its business Northcliffe in that area.
We do not expect annually by around 15% per annum over to find further significant acquisition the next five years due to the strength of its opportunities in UK local media.
business models and growth of its newer products, although current uncertainties Northcliffe has repositioned its commercial in its property and financial markets propositions for online jobs, property and obscure the short-term outlook.
cars, having left the fish4 consortium.
Its key online commercial platforms are Euromoney Institutional Investor had a provided by ANDs digital pure plays, superb year and successfully integrated Jobsite, Findaproperty and motors.
the acquisition of Metal Bulletin and Its advertisers have access to a powerful completed synergies ahead of expectations.
combination of media platforms when they Euromoney is seeing good organic growth place an advertisement in print and online in its markets, assisted by high quality with us.
This will enhance their reach to products.
It has successfully diversified a wider audience.
Already, it is achieving away from a dependence on advertising growth in digital revenue, from an and has demonstrated its ability to admittedly low base, far higher than leverage its brands across the world.
We believe the national Any downturn in its markets will be portals and the print online combination an opportunity for it to make further Adjusted operating profit provide us with two key competitive acquisitions.
DMGT acquired shares in before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment advantages.
Furthermore, the strength Euromoney during the year to increase its of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 12 Chief Executives Review continued interest back over 61%, following its dilution RESOURCES from 69% due to the issue of shares to part The Groups main resources are its brands, EUROMONEY IS A CORE fund the Metal Bulletin deal.
The Board its people, its reputation and the marketBUSINESS.
regards Euromoney as a core business and leading position of its major businesses.
our objective is that DMGTs diluted holding should not fall again below 60%.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The principal risks and uncertainties the Our total investment in dmg world media Group faces vary across the different since 1995 was approximately 400 million businesses and are the focus of the Risk at the end of the year.
This increased by Committee which I chair.
These risks 77 million on 1st October, 2007, following are identified in a Group Risk Register.
the accelerated acquisition of the 51% The materiality of each risk is assessed stake in GLM to which the Group had been against a framework to determine its committed by 2014. dmg world media had significance and likelihood of occurrence.
a good year due to a strong performance The Risk Register is used to determine by its B2B sector, offsetting falls within the agenda and activity of the Risk UK consumer events and its Western US Committee.
The most material inherent gift shows.
Following our review, new risks identified in the Risk Register, growth opportunities are likely to come together with the steps taken to mitigate mainly from the B2B sector.
DMG Radio Australia was established The geographic spread and diverse in 1996 with a plan to build a national portfolio of businesses within the Group metropolitan FM broadcasting network help to dilute the impact of some of the 400m through the Australian governments Groups key risks.
Certain of these risks TOTAL INVESTMENT IN DMG WORLD MEDIA.
licence auction process with the intention are interdependent and should not be of delivering an above average return considered in isolation.
Net investment since its creation has totalled 200 million.
The impact of technological and market Progress has been slower than we had changes on our competitive advantage hoped when we embarked upon its Our businesses operate in highly expansion in 2000, but was made this competitive environments that can be year with Nova Adelaide becoming the fifth subject to rapid change.
Our products and and final station in the Nova network to services, and their means of delivery, are break into profit.
It was hindered, affected by technological innovations, however, by an especially competitive changing legislation, competitor activity radio landscape and by soft advertising or changing customer behaviour.
in the key Sydney market during the first A structural change in advertising markets half of the year.
The Vega product, resulting in significant advertising moving launched late in 2005 to complement away from some of our traditional products Nova, is now demonstrating momentum to the internet has affected our results and the whole division moved back into both positively and negatively.
profit in the later months of the year.
ALL NOVA STATIONS Our Australian management team remains We have developed an internet strategy ARE NOW PROFITABLE.
highly concentrated on the task before for each of our main segments of them which is to provide DMGT with advertising revenue.
The decentralised a return on its investment programme autonomous culture of the Group which is now complete.
encourages an entrepreneurial approach to the development of new opportunities During 2007, the Group made further in response to these threats and we strides, making strategic acquisitions continue to invest and adapt to remain and selling non-core assets.
Our strategy of diversification re-established our prudent debt ratios, and willingness to take a long-term view Adjusted operating profit temporarily stretched by the acquisition helps us to react beneficially to these before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of the Metal Bulletin companies.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 13 Chief Executives Review continued Exposure to changes in the economy and choice with increased member customer spending patterns contributions in the top tier and a higher General economic conditions and the retirement age in the lower tier.
These WE HAVE DEVELOPED financial health of our customers affect actions, together with the introduction AN INTERNET STRATEGY FOR EACH OF OUR the performance of all of our businesses in 2008 of updated defined contribution MAIN SEGMENTS OF to some degree.
In addition, a significant pension plans in all other divisions and ADVERTISING REVENUE.
proportion of our revenue is derived from overseas, are helping to reduce pension advertising spending which has historically liabilities and control the pension costs been cyclical, with companies spending incurred by the Group.
less on advertising in times of economic slowdown.
Our commitment to investment Reliance on key management and staff in our core brands and products helps us In order to pursue our strategy, we are to reduce the effect of these fluctuations reliant on key management and staff across by maintaining the strength of our products all our businesses.
We cannot predict with in their markets.
certainty that we will enjoy continued success in our recruitment and retention Impact of a major disaster or outbreak of high quality management and creative of disease talent.
However, we have a number of Any disaster, such as a geopolitical event measures in place within each division to or a pandemic, such as influenza, which address this risk.
These include payment significantly affects the wider environment of competitive rewards, employee or infrastructure in a sector where the performance and turnover monitoring Group has material operations, could and a variety of approaches to staff adversely affect the Group.
In addition, divisional and procedures are in place to manage the management are tasked with reviewing WE HAVE MEASURES IN impact of such risks, the event might affect staff performance and with developing PLACE TO CONTINUE OUR SUCCESS IN RECRUITMENT our ability to produce and deliver our appropriate succession plans.
AND RETENTION OF HIGH products, reduce the demand for them, QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND or significantly affect our cost base.
The Tax risk CREATIVE TALENT.
importance of travel to many of our event The Group operates within many businesses increases the sensitivity of our jurisdictions: our earnings are therefore results to incidents that may affect subject to taxation at differing rates across confidence in travel to specific destinations.
Whilst we endeavour to manage our tax affairs in an efficient Pension schemes manner, due to an ever more complex We operate defined benefit schemes for international tax environment there will our newspaper divisions and for certain always be a level of uncertainty when senior executives.
Reported earnings may provisioning for our tax liabilities.
There be adversely affected by changes in our is also a risk of tax laws being amended pension costs and funding requirements by authorities in the different jurisdictions due to lower than expected investment in which we operate which would have returns and changes in demographics and an adverse effect on our financial results.
These Working with divisional management risks are being considered with the scheme and external tax experts we have a team WE HAVE TAKEN FURTHER trustees to agree an appropriate funding of in-house tax specialists who review ACTIONS TO REDUCE PENSION LIABILITIES AND TO CONTROL approach and an asset allocation strategy all tax arrangements within the Group PENSION COSTS.
designed to reduce and diversify the risk and keep abreast of changing tax inherent in the investment portfolios.
The Company is also assessing the future financial impact of people living longer Legal and regulatory and how the impact of this risk can be DMGT businesses are subject to varying controlled.
These measures are in addition legislation and regulation across several to the introduction in 2005 of a two-tier jurisdictions including health and safety benefit structure in the defined benefit and employment law as well as more schemes, providing greater employee specific regulations such as from the Office Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 14 Chief Executives Review continued of Fair Trading and the Audit Bureau o f worsening of commercial terms with Circulation.
Changes to this legislation key suppliers could adversely affect the or regulations could adversely affect the Groups results and the Groups ability results and future trading of the business.
to produce key products and services.
Employees are made aware of health and DMGT has disaster recovery plans in place safety and employment rights through and resources are also devoted to ensuring employee handbooks.
Controls are also in the relationships with key suppliers are place surrounding compliance with the maintained and upheld.
ABCs regula tions and other regulatory bodies to which we adhere.
Acquisition and disposal risk As well as launching and building new Reader listener promotions businesses, an integral part of our success Many reader and listener promotions and has, and will continue to be, the acquisition competitions are run by companies within of businesses that complement our the Group.
As highlighted by the recent existing products or expand the scope of controversy over television and radio our expertise into new markets.
A number phone-in competitions, this is inherently of risks are inherent within any strategy an area which could significantly impact to acquire.
The Group generally acquires the Groups reputation if a promotion was businesses with a high potential for growth found to be conducted inappropriately in related markets.
The majority of within one of the Groups businesses.
acquisitions considered are smaller add-on Competitions and promotions within the acquisitions, which reduces the size of the newspaper and radio divisions are closely risk of each acquisition to the Group.
157% reviewed and monitored both before they OUR SHARE PERFORMANCE begin and whilst they are in progress.
There are risks to our ability to achieve SINCE 1988, RELATIVE TO optimal value from disposals including the THE FTSE ALL SHARE INDEX.
Treasury Risk incorrect timing of any sale, the inability to There are a number of risks arising from identify and agree a deal with a purchaser, the Groups Treasury operations including the unsuccessful separation of a business currency exchange rate fluctuations and management of any related costs, as impacting on the Groups reported well as the failure to realise any other earnings, liquidity risk, interest rate risk anticipated benefits of a disposal.
In addition the treasury function within DMGT undertakes high SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE value transactions and therefore there is Share performance remains important to us inherently a risk of treasury fraud or error.
as a measure that our strategy and balance are understood and recognised by the Price volatility of newsprint market, enabling management to pursue Newsprint represents a significant intrinsic value.
Over time our strong historic proportion of our costs within the operating performance has been recognised newspaper divisions.
Newsprint prices by the market, as can be seen from the are subject to volatility arising from graphs on pages 15 and 43.
However, since variations in supply and demand.
Whilst the end of July, a disconnect has emerged generally these variations are not large between our belief in the Groups growth and therefore not significant to the Group, prospects and our earnings forecasts on the there have been periods historically where one hand and its share price performance.
the impact on the Group was material and a repeat of such events cannot be ruled The price of our widely traded A Ordinary out.
The Groups newsprint requirements Non-Voting shares started the financial year on price, volume and quality are monitored at 6 and rose steadily throughout the by the Newsprint Committee.
autumn on perceptions of an improvement in UK advertising conditions.
The Reliance on key suppliers announcement of our 2005 6 results The loss of a key supplier due to disaster in November 2006 and the messages or economic downturn, or a significant accompanying it, which demonstrated that Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 15 Chief Executives Review continued DMGT was not just a UK newspaper stock, regardless of the results, as long as we led to the price continuing to rise, peaking continue to have confidence in the strength 10% at 8.65 in mid-May.
As shown below, the COMPOUND DIVIDEND compound dividend growth over the last ten GROWTH OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS.
Since the summer, the price has fallen years is 10% in nominal terms, which is an below 6 in response to economic increase of just under 7% in real terms.
All of our market intelligence tells us that DMGT is regarded more The Company spent 28 million on buying its positively than other UK media groups A Ordinary Non-Voting shares during the because of its diversification strategy.
year to add to the 21 million spent in 2005 6.
However, at present, investors are looking for bad news and do not appear to want We will continue to review opportunities to be exposed to consumer advertising to repurchase our own shares, where or to the financial or property sectors.
appropriate, in accordance with the We hope that, once the current economic resolution passed at the AGM in February.
fears are played out and a return to sanity prevails, DMGT will once more be RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS, accorded a proper rating by the market.
OTHER THAN SHAREHOLDERS Environmental, employee, social and CAPITAL STRUCTURE community issues are taken seriously by The Company has not made a capital call the Company, as set out in the Corporate on its shareholders for nearly 75 years.
Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 36.
Capital growth is funded by long-term debt DMGT also has a dedicated Corporate and by retained earnings.
DMGTs policy is Responsibility section on its website which SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE to seek to increase the dividend each year is updated regularly.
The Board has IS IMPORTANT TO US.
by 5% to 7% in real terms, within reason policies on the environment and on equal DMGT DIVIDEND HISTORY FOR THE PERIOD 1988 2007 PENCE INFLATION INDICATOR 1988 2007 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 PERFORMANCE OF DMGT A AND FT ALL SHARE INDEX RELATIVE TO VALUES AT 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1988 DMGT A MONTHLY CLOSING PRICE FT ALL-SHARE INDEX 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 16 Chief Executives Review continued CO2 EFFICIENCY 2007 opportunities for employees, as well as TRENDS AND FACTORS LIKELY TO on whistle blowing and health and safety.
AFFECT THE OUTLOOK All of these policies are established and The new financial year has generally set out on the DMGT extranet.
started well for the Group.
DMGT AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Mail titles are enjoying good circulation We recognise that our businesses have an figures, showing modest year on year impact on the environment through our growth, and are seeing strong demand printing operations, offices, transport and from retail advertisers.
The London other business activities.
We are committed market, while still challenging, is 03 04 05 06 07 to ensuring that, where practical, any adverse improving for Associated.
The greater impact on the environment from our activities availability of colour and potentially lower CO EFFICIENCY IMPROVED 2 BY 1% THIS YEAR DUE TO will be minimised.
The major environmental newsprint prices for Associated from THE CONTINUED EFFECT impacts arise in our printing operations January 2008 will create new opportunities OF THE CLOSURE OF LESS EFFICIENT PRINT CENTRES.
where we focus on newsprint, energy, CO2, and a competitive advantage on which to water and ink efficiencies.
Our local media titles are the data over recent years in order to monitor continuing to see improving advertising each of these impacts, and graphs illustrating revenues in the key recruitment category, them over each of the last five years are set while property advertising is now broadly out on our website.
The overall trend is flat year on year.
For example, newsprint production integrated provider of local media services, waste, as a percentage of total newspaper is well positioned for 2008 and beyond.
output, fell again this year and, as shown in the graph above, the Group achieved a Our business-to-business divisions marginal improvement in CO2 efficiency, due continue to perform well.
The prospects for to the continued effect of the closure of older DMGI remain encouraging, given its strong and relatively less efficient print centres and business model and new product to the transfer of production to newer, more development.
Risk Management Solutions efficient, sites.
Despite the continuation of uncertainties in the credit DMGT AND OUR EMPLOYEES markets and a slowdown in the property Our record on retention of staff remains market, DMGIs businesses continue to see good, aided by our autonomous culture good levels of activity.
Euromoney, now and by our provision of the appropriate with much greater reliance on high quality form of pension provision to all our subscription products, is seeing continued employees.
DMGT has kept open its final growth in its markets.
dmg world media salary pension schemes in the UK continues to perform well within its B2B newspaper divisions where people tend sector and our Australian radio business is to stay with us for a long time and where showing encouraging signs of improvement.
the average age is higher.
In the other divisions, which are more international Overall the strength of the Groups portfolio and where employees are generally of market leading business and consumer younger, we believe defined contribution media businesses makes the Board 8% pension plans are more appropriate.
optimistic of achieving another year of steady THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES growth in earnings, provided that the UK ROSE BY 8%.
The number of employees has risen from economy does not deteriorate substantially.
16,033 at the beginning of the year to 17,296 at the end, an increase of 8%, driven CHARLES SINCLAIR by acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions and Chief Executive disposals, the number of employees within Northcliffes UK operations fell by a further 192 4% as a consequence of its reorganisation programme.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 17 Associated Newspapers ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS KEVIN BEATTY KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 GROWTH IN PRINT ADVERTISING MANAGING DIRECTOR LEFT LORD ROTHERMERE REVENUE 2 FURTHER INCREASES IN MARKET SHARE BY THE CHAIRMAN CENTRE PAUL DACRE MAIL TITLES 3 CLOSE CONTROL OF COSTS 4 SIGNIFICANT EDITOR IN CHIEF RIGHT GROWTH IN OUR FREE NEWSPAPERS 5 SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATED NORTHCLIFFE DIGITAL 6 LAUNCH OF MOTORS.
CO. UK The strength of Associated Newspapers produced the highest ever promoted sale.
core brands and the diversity of its This was followed by the world exclusive portfolio of businesses produced a solid premiere of The Riddle, the first new film performance in revenue terms.
The Daily to be released free with a newspaper.
Mail achieved a record operating profit As a consequence, market share increased which was offset by the significant by 1% against the previous year to a KEY FIGURES activity in the London evening newspaper record high of 18.2%.
The Mail on Sunday market, continued revenue investment in continues to have more ABC1 readers than REVENUE Associated Northcliffe Digital AND and any other Sunday newspaper, Financial a disappointing result from Teletext.
Mail has more readers than any other 986m finance supplement and You magazine 2006: 955m PRINT PUBLICATIONS is the highest read womens weekly title.
Circulation revenues from Associateds OPERATING PROFIT newspaper operations increased by 1% Following the launch into the London to 378 million, with both the Daily Mail market last year of two free afternoon and The Mail on Sundays circulation newspapers, London Lite published 83m performing ahead of the market.
Costs, by Associated Newspapers and 2006: 99m excluding newsprint, were held to a year thelondonpaper News International, the OPERATING MARGIN on year increase of less than 3%.
Both average daily circulation of the Evening print and digital advertising grew year Standard fell to 274,000 copies.
This on year, resulting in a 5% increase in their represented a year on year decline of 14.6% 8% combined revenues.
but the second half of the year saw an 2006: 10% improved performance in September the The Daily Mail increased its share of the actual circulation was up year on year.
The national daily newspaper market by 0.3% unique and innovative Eros cashless loyalty to 20%, which not only represented the card scheme was launched towards the highest percentage growth of any national end of the year and will be supported by newspaper but also the highest absolute a programme to modernise the point of percentage share of the market ever sale presence on the streets of London to achieved by the Daily Mail.
Daily circulation reflect the Evening Standards up-scale averaged 2,333,000 copies, which was just positioning.
The Evening Standards 1.8% down year on year compared to an companion site, thisislondon.
co. uk, enjoyed overall market decline of 3.1%.
substantial growth in traffic during the year and was enhanced by the addition of The Mail on Sundays average circulation standard.
co. uk launched in September.
was 2,310,000, which was unchanged year Rigorous cost control has ensured that on year in a market that fell by 5.3%.
further significant cost savings were made.
This was achieved by the use of innovative promotions and a new Irish edition, Associateds free newspapers continued to developed out of Ireland on Sunday.
Metro averaged 1,132,000 world exclusive free Prince CD was the copies per morning, up 6% year on year Adjusted operating profit first time a major new studio album had and, with the addition of 250,000 copies in before exceptional items and been released free with a newspaper and September, will show strong distribution amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 18 Associated Newspapers continued ANALYSIS OF REVENUE M growth through the next twelve months.
publishing genre within Associated was With a total of 1.36 million copies daily, announced in July and is continuing.
This 2007 2006 Metro UK will be the largest free newspaper has resulted in a further impairment of the CIRCULATION 378 374 in the world.
Metros website too enjoyed investment.
In May, Buy and Sell, the Irish ADVERTISING phenomenal growth with unique users classified advertising title, was sold.
DISPLAY 350 332 almost doubling to an average of 567,000 ADVERTISING CLASSIFIED 97 104 per month.
London Lite has quickly become Associateds total print advertising OTHER 15 15 the most read evening title in the country, revenues were up 3% to 447 million.
PRINT TOTAL 840 825 with 745,000 readers daily according to the Within that figure, display advertising was DIGITAL 86 59 National Readership Survey, despite its up 6% and classified down 7%.
Metro and TELEVISION 40 51 distribution of 400,000 copies per day being the Daily Mail had excellent years, achieving CONTRACT PRINT 20 20 almost 100,000 less than thelondonpaper.
9% and 8% growth respectively, with 986 955 The Mail on Sunday up 3% year on year.
7Days in Dubai has seen some disruption The Evening Standard was down 24% in to its advertising and distribution a fiercely competitive market with a reduced during the year and did not meet profit circulation and readership.
A review of the cost base of 29%.
Our largest display category, retail, the operation was undertaken, and there enjoyed strong growth, being up 18%.
have been improvements in revenue and profit performance in the second half.
Teletexts television revenues fell by 27%, in part due to the switch of advertisers TELETEXT from Analogue to Digital, despite a ANALYSIS OF REVENUE % Whilst Teletext experienced another significant number of Teletexts customers PRINT CIRCULATION 38% challenging year in terms of overall revenue continuing to use the analogue service.
performance, the business continued to ADVERTISING 35% Display progress its strategy of delivering services PRINTING ADVERTISING 10% Classified across digital television, internet and Formed from a merger of Associateds and OTHER 2% mobile.
This included a major branding Northcliffes printing operations in 2006, DIGITAL 9% re-introduction of its products across Harmsworth Printing is now responsible TELEVISION 4% all platforms supported by an advertising for providing printing services to the DMGT CONTRACT PRINT 2% campaign, which focused on Teletexts role group.
During 2007 the company reorganised in the market as a provider of bite-sized, its operations and began a review of up-to-the minute information and good value the production assets under its control.
During the year Teletext As expected, following the integration of continued to develop the Groups online travel production management, efficiency savings properties, with the launch of new niche sites have already been achieved and further for the UK and luxury markets.
On digital improvements in utilisation are being television, audiences have continued to grow, considered.
As a consequence, a with Teletext remaining the leading text consultation process has been initiated for service on Freeview, ahead of the BBC and staff at the print centre in Staverton, for Sky.
At the end of the year Teletext Extra which an exceptional restructuring charge was launched, an exciting new service for has been taken.
New investment in printing the Freeview platform, accessible from any facilities continued as planned.
The new channel on this platform via the TV guide centre at Didcot has been commissioned button.
This is expected to be available in five and the enhancement of the presses at million boxes by early 2008 and we hope will Surrey Quays is due to be completed before drive increased usage of Teletext on digital.
Christmas, providing the newspaper titles with full colour in January 2008.
Loot had another challenging year, with advertising down 29% and circulation ASSOCIATED NORTHCLIFFE DIGITAL down 16%.
Tight control of costs, including AND showed strong growth from both reorganisation in many parts of the business, its existing businesses and via further resulted in a 17% reduction in total costs, acquisitions.
With over 140 websites but for the first time the title made a small reaching more than 25 million monthly loss.
A detailed review of the role of this unique visitors, AND is one of the leading Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 19 Associated Newspapers continued OPERATING PROFIT SPLIT M players in the UK digital media industry.
in the positions available to job hunters Revenue grew by 46% across ANDs core in these areas as well as improved 2007 2006 classified portals in jobs, property and response to advertisers through Jobsites PRINT ACTIVITIES 92 98 motors, but profits fell by 2 million superior technology.
The joint venture DIGITAL ACTIVITIES 11 13 due mainly to significant investment in with Euromoney saw Jobsite launch TELEVISION -4 0 developing its businesses.
co. uk, providing a market UNALLOCATED leading online recruitment platform for COSTS -16 -12 JOBS 14 Euromoney titles.
In January, Jobsite 83 99 Revenues in the Recruitment division launched a new mobile recruitment increased by 41%.
The Jobsite network offering aimed at temporary workers of sites now comprises over 50 niche and in the construction industry called AND local job boards and has grown ahead of LetJoKnow.
Through its innovative KEY FACTS 2003 VS 2007 expectations.
This year Jobsite launched mobile application, LetJoKnow enables new niche sites for job hunters, contract tradesmen to find their next job 4 YEARS AGO recruitment agencies and corporate clients with minimum effort.
Consistent with its SITES 5 in the Human Resources and Marketing strategy to build out its niche job boards, REVENUE m p. a.
In addition, Jobsite partnered Jobsite acquired JobsGroup.
net, the MARGINfive STAFF 100 with Northcliffe Media and Euromoney to leading recruitment advertising business ADVERTISERS C. 100 power the recruitment channels of their in the engineering sector, at the beginning REACH UK 2m local specialist websites.
Previous acquisitions: In-Retail, with Northcliffe Media involves Jobsite Top-Consultant, Office Recruit, and powering the regional websites jobs Productionbase are all trading as expected.
channels, resulting in a significant increase Margins for this sector remain around 30%.
TODAY SITES 148 ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS REVENUE m p. a.
100m REVENUE M MARGIN 10% 1,000 STAFF 833 ADVERTISERS 15,000 800 REACH UK 9m Run rate annualised 600 Comscore September 2007 400 200 0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Excluding Teletext and before 2006 Northcliffes contract print and digital revenues THE COMPLETION OF THE DIDCOT PRINT CENTRE IS THE CORNERSTONE OF THE ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS CIRCULATION PERFORMANCE VS THE MARKET TREND GROUPS INVESTMENT IN 1994 952006 07 % DELIVERING FULL COLOUR TO THE MAIL TITLES FROM DAILY MAIL 30.3% Source ABC October September JANUARY 2008.
PERFORMANCE Index 1994 05 100 THE MAIL ON SUNDAY 16.8% AT THE SITE, ALONG WITH THE OTHER SUNDAY NATIONALS -25.0% EXISTING PLANT AT SURREY OTHER DAILY NATIONALS -25.6% QUAYS, HAS ENABLED THE GROUP TO INCREASE THE 140 NUMBER OF FLEXOGRAPHIC COPIES PRINTED ACROSS BOTH ITS NATIONAL AND 120 REGIONAL TITLES.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 20 Associated Newspapers continued PROPERTY MOTORS LoopyLove.
com, The two key digital property brands In January, a newly formed Digital DreamsDiscovered.
com, continue to strengthen with both Automotive Division successfully launched DatingforParents.
co. uk, which complements Allegran operates four out of the UKs top performing in line with our ambitions.
the existing motor dealer inventory ten dating sites and will further improve Findaproperty and Primelocation grew management service provided by this position through its strategy of revenues by a combined 73%.
As part of its growth providing niche sites targeted at key showed good audience growth and have strategy, and to enhance dealer services, consumer lifestyle groups.
been successful in expanding their Complete Automotive Solutions, the UTILITY SWITCHING volumes of estate agent branches and provider of the CloseIt CRM system Simply Switch, which was acquired in UK property listings.
Findaproperty has to the automotive industry was acquired.
August 2006, has struggled in a market expanded outside its London and South The Digital Automotive Division has made of reducing energy prices and increased East heartland into Leeds, Manchester significant progress in generating audience competition from energy suppliers and Liverpool, where over the course growth and securing dealer advertising.
resulting in trading being well below of this year it achieved a strong market The new division has won several high expectations.
We have therefore written share of agents and property numbers.
profile distribution arrangements including down our investment in Simply Switch.
Findaproperty has also formed an Yahoo Cars, and is working in partnership integrated partnership with Northcliffe with Northcliffe Media by powering all of CENTRAL OPERATIONS Media in which its technology powers its regional websites motors channels and ANDs new product development team the regional websites property channels sharing sales resource.
This has made launched two new products in 2007, the and the local newspaper teams sell a motors.
co. uk the third largest motors first being a remembrance site called multi-platform offering.
Primelocation classified listings site in the UK.
The Lasting Tribute, the second being a Green has invested in its television branding Motors division is performing well and site called Big Green Switch.
Lasting campaign, which is paying off and has there will be further investment in this Tribute also partners with Northcliffe increased the number of agent offices to sector going forward.
Media to support its obituary listings.
It has also made excellent progress in developing its data and DATING Excellent progress has been made in display sales, as well as overseas property.
Further investment was made in the dating handing back responsibility for the Margins for this sector remain around 20%.
brands operated through Allegran, i. e. newspapers companion sites to the newspapers editorial and commercial 28% OF INTERNET USERS AND GROWING management.
AND will continue to provide services such as network digital sales, technical design and hosting and other specialist services to these sites.
OUTLOOK Trading projections for the first quarter of the new financial year are encouraging.
Thereafter it is difficult to predict.
Nevertheless, Associated, with its strong brands, diversified portfolio and further planned back-office efficiencies is well placed.
The London market, while still challenging, is improving.
When full colour, increased pagination and more flexographic printed copies are available in January 2008, Associated will have new opportunities and a competitive advantage upon which to capitalise.
Another strong performance is expected from the digital operations, but revenue investment will continue to be made to grow ANDs property and motors sectors in particular.
ANDS SITES ARE NOW USED BY 28% OF ALL INTERNET USERS IN THE UK, Overall the outlook for the next twelve WITH OVER 9 MILLION UK UNIQUE VISITORS.
Comscore September 2007 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 21 Northcliffe Media NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA LORD ROTHERMERE KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA HAD A GOOD YEAR CHAIRMAN LEFT MICHAEL PELOSI 2 IT HAS BEEN REVITALISED AS AN INTEGRATED PROVIDER OF MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT LOCAL MEDIA SERVICES 3 UK DIGITAL PUBLISHING REVENUES ROSE BY 77% 4 MARGINS ARE IMPROVING 5 OPERATIONAL CASH GENERATION HAS BEEN STRONG 6 IT CONTINUES TO INVEST IN REVENUE GENERATION Northcliffes operating profit climbed to Recruitment advertising continued to trend 92.5 million, which included 1.5 million downwards for the first half of the year from newly acquired titles in the South falling by 3% but this reversed in the of England.
These titles are rapidly second half increasing by 6% resulting being integrated into Northcliffe and in an overall increase of just under 2%.
are performing in line with expectations.
Property advertising was the star KEY FIGURES This was a record result after excluding performer in 2007, growing by 7% on Aberdeen Journals sold March 2006, the back of a buoyant housing market.
REVENUE Northcliffe Retail sold in June and the contribution from acquired businesses.
2007 was a year of real progress for online 447m publishing as Northcliffe focused all of its 2006: 455m In the UK, operating profits grew by operating centres on becoming integrated 6% on a similar basis.
Operating margin local media publishers.
Responsibility for OPERATING PROFIT increased to 21%, up by over 1% on 2006. online publishing has been handed back Total revenues were flat.
However, costs to local editorial departments and has declined by almost 10 million due to the been enthusiastically embraced by all.
93m continued implementation of Northcliffes Centres no longer think purely print.
2006: 89m business improvement programme, which Instead, editorial departments consider OPERATING MARGIN commenced in the summer of 2005.
In what is the best channel for news.
Stories aggregate, this programme has achieved are broken online when they are ready and savings of 45 million.
Northcliffe has been not to suit print deadlines.
21% revitalised as an integrated provider of 2006: 20% local media services.
The family of This is sites now incorporate video, readers comments and photographs.
In Central Europe, where we also have There has been a major increase in a combined print and online strategy, interaction with users and this is set to Northcliffe International grew its profits develop rapidly over the coming twelve by 53% to 6.9 million.
In September, the number of businesses accounted for 1.5 million UK unique users reached 2.5 million, whereas organic growth in profits was 19%.
an increase of 42% on the year before.
UK The relevance of local media was Trading conditions in the UK continued to appropriately demonstrated by Hull be challenging.
Advertising revenues fell and Gloucestershire during the summer by 2 million 0.7% mainly due to weak floods which hit both these areas.
performances from the motors and retail www.
co. uk provided due to a combination of migration to regular updates to the respective online advertising and the continuing communities.
They also carried videos consolidation of dealerships in the UK.
and a substantial number of photographs Northcliffe is addressing online migration submitted by readers.
Users and page Adjusted operating profit with the launch of motors.
Retail views rose significantly during this period.
before exceptional items and revenues fell by 6% but showed an In Gloucestershire, unique users on Monday amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
improving trend by the third quarter.
22nd July increased to almost 40,000, a rise Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 22 Northcliffe Media continued NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA of over 300% on the previous week.
The site Currently, FindaProperty technology REVENUE ANALYSIS M is continuing to attract a higher level of is in use in the South East and feedback 2007 2006 users.
However, this did not have an adverse is encouraging.
ADVERTISING 304 298 impact on the sale of the local titles.
CIRCULATION 88 86 Newspaper circulation revenues fell by OTHER 23 21 Our commercial teams have also been 1% to 76 million.
Circulations continue to 415 405 active in growing digital revenues, mainly trend downwards.
The most recent figures EX-TRINITY TITLES 6 on the back of the compelling combination covering the January to June 2007 period ABERDEEN RETAIL 26 50 of local print and online.
UK digital showed that our daily evening titles were 447 455 revenues increased by 77% over the down by 5.4%, which was slightly better than previous year.
75% of all jobs which the industry performance for this category.
appeared in print were also posted online Disappointingly, our weeklies were down by and, for this, the customer enjoys an 5.2%, which is behind the industry average entry on the local This is site as well of 3.3%.
This decline was most apparent in as on the national Jobsite board.
our larger weekly titles with circulations above 30,000 copies.
The reasons are not Feedback from local motor dealers who obvious and, therefore, research is being are now using our online automotive commissioned to provide pointers which platform, www.
will allow us to address this trend.
All sites have reached critical mass in terms of the number of local vehicles Despite this downward trend in the sale available for search.
Encouragingly, this of our titles, our portfolios of local media 2007 REVENUE ANALYSIS % digital proposition is allowing us to engage products paid fors, free weeklies, ADVERTISING 73% with a number of lapsed advertisers who monthly magazines, websites and niche no longer buy print advertising.
Almost all products still have significant reach in CIRCULATION 21% online inventory is now generating revenue each of the communities which we serve.
OTHER 6% and we expect this category to show further progress in 2008.
In addition to our focus on digital activities, we continue to innovate in print.
Towards All Northcliffe centres have been active in the end of September, the Bath Chronicle presenting our online property websites was converted from a daily to a weekly to local estate agents and providing clients paid for title.
Circulation of this title had with activity reports.
The response from declined to less than 12,000 copies each estate agents has been positive.
The new proportion of local branches now post weekly has retained all of its important their entire inventory on our This is sites.
advertising platforms of recruitment, A further development over the next few property, motors, retail and leisure.
months will be the roll out of the platform Since publication, sales of the new titles developed by FindaProperty which has have exceeded 22,000 each week, thus excellent functionality.
This should make providing improved reach and response our proposition of local print and online an for advertisers.
New free titles have also even stronger route to market for clients.
been launched in Essex and Leicestershire NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA TOTAL UNDUPLICATED REACH 2007 7.3m 2006 6.2m 2005 6.5m Source: JICREG IMS 2007 THE GRAPH SHOWS THE IMPACT OF THE DISPOSAL OF ABERDEEN JOURNALS 2006 AND THE ACQUISITION OF TITLES FROM TRINITY MIRROR PLC 2007 ON THE REACH OF NORTHCLIFFE MEDIAS PORTFOLIO.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 23 Northcliffe Media continued giving extended coverage for existing GROWING OUR ONLINE USER GENERATED CONTENT advertisers, as well as attracting new customers.
This type of focused product innovation will continue throughout 2008.
CENTRAL EUROPE Northcliffe International delivered profits growth of 53%.
In Hungary, our two regional titles, Kisalfld and Dlmagyarorszg, both performed well, as did our classified titles.
90,000 Online, we launched a jobs board, which is currently fifth in the market.
Extensive 2007 marketing efforts are planned in 2008.
Our motors websites, Aut Bazr and Hasznaltauto, make us the number one for online vehicles.
We are now focusing on the online market for property.
In Slovakia, Pravdas first full year of 52,000 ownership performed in line with expectations.
Pravda is a national daily, 2006 which is number two in the market.
The portfolio of classified publications continued to grow revenues and profits.
Profesia, our online jobs board, is the number one online recruitment site in the 22,000 country and has launched jobs boards into 2005 Hungary and the Czech Republic.
In March, we acquired Autovia.
This site is now the number one website for motor vehicles in Slovakia.
In March, we entered the Croatian marketplace with the acquisition of the market-leading jobs website, MojPosao.
In addition, we have acquired interests in new but fast-growing property, motors and buy and sell websites, which have quickly become number two sites in the market.
These new acquisitions are trading in line with expectations.
OUTLOOK Market conditions in the UK are difficult to forecast for the rest of the new financial year.
There has been a recent slowing of the property market and the impact of the liquidity squeeze has yet to manifest itself fully across the wider economy.
Northcliffe is, therefore, cautious on the outlook for local media in 2008.
However, this will not deter our development plans as we OUR FAMILY OF THIS IS SITES HAS SEEN A MAJOR INCREASE IN USER INTERACTION.
THE FIGURES position our local media businesses to SHOW VOLUME OF VOTES, STORY COMMENTS AND BULLETIN BOARD POSTINGS MADE IN SEPTEMBER be at the heart of all things local and to be OF THE RELEVANT YEAR.
the market-leading information providers to their local communities.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 24 DMG Information DMG INFORMATION DAVID DUTTON KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 UNDERLYING REVENUES GREW BY 17% CHAIRMAN LEFT MARTIN MORGAN 2 UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT GREW BY 11% 3 BOLT-ON MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT ACQUISITIONS ENHANCED OUR MARKET-LEADING POSITION 4 OPERATING PROFIT MARGINS ROSE TO 24% EVEN AFTER ABSORBING AMBITIOUS INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES TO FUEL FURTHER GROWTH DMG Information had an excellent year widening the number of perils covered and with a strong financial performance and providing enhanced analytical and data a wide range of developments in the related services to its clients.
These have further enhanced our position as an independent provider of Our financial information companies, essential information, analytics and insight Trepp and Lewtan, also had an outstanding KEY FIGURES to customers in our chosen niche markets.
The level of new issuance in the On a like for like basis, adjusting to exclude commercial mortgage-backed securities REVENUE acquisitions and disposals made in the market, served by Trepp, was at record second half of 2006, and using constant levels although the tightening of the US 293m exchange rates, underlying revenues credit markets in the late summer is 2006: 345m increased by 17% to 293 million and expected to cause a slowdown in activity.
Lewtan saw good growth in products and OPERATING PROFIT services to both the issuers and investors INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL in asset-backed securities.
Although there Operating profit from DMGIs insurance and is now a significant amount of turmoil in 71m financial division rose by 4 million or 14% to financial markets, our financial information 2006: 68m 35 million on revenues up 20% to 110 businesses continue to see good levels of OPERATING MARGIN million.
Risk Management Solutions RMS activity and demand for their services.
makes up more than half of this division.
PROPERTY 24% RMS, the worlds leading provider of Operating profit from the property division 2006: 20% solutions to assist the insurance sector rose by 4 million or 16% to 29 million on in quantifying and managing catastrophe revenue up 20% to 106 million.
and other risks, once again was a strong performer.
The company is pursuing an Landmark Information Group, based in aggressive strategy of increasing the UK, had an exceptional year with geographic coverage of its models, underlying revenues growing by 18%.
DMG INFORMATION REVENUE M 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 amortisation and impairment Excluding Study Group from 1998-2006 of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 25 DMG Information continued DMG INFORMATION OPERATING PROFIT M 18% 70 UNDERLYING REVENUE FOR LANDMARK GREW BY 18% 60 IN 2007.
Sanborn, serving the volumes remained robust and this, together geo-spacial information market, continues with increasing market penetration, fuelled to grow revenues strongly and to improve strong growth.
This was combined with profit margins.
continuing growth in sales of electronic mapping and environmental reports to In its first full year after acquisition participants in a commercial property Genscape grew sales satisfactorily, and GROWTH IN NUMBER OF RMS EARTHQUAKE MODELS YEARS market that was buoyant throughout the continued to research and launch new 20 year.
Landmark also entered the Dutch products.
In the US the company launched 18 home property market during the year and a natural gas monitoring service covering expects to enhance its continental Texas while in Europe it continued to 13 European presence in the near future.
expand geographic coverage for the electricity market.
In the USA, Environmental Data Resources, the leading provider of information used Hobsons had an outstanding year with in commercial property due diligence, also strong sales and profit growth in Europe, 2 showed pleasing growth despite relatively Australia and the US.
In addition to organic flat commercial property transaction growth, two bolt-on acquisitions were 89 93 94 99 00 04 05 07 volumes.
In particular EDR continued to grow completed in the US, with the addition of its sales to commercial property lenders.
Naviance, a leading provider of planning and advice systems to high schools, and Both Landmark and EDR were successful in AY Recruiting Solutions, a provider of completing bolt-on acquisitions to enhance recruitment technology and services to their product offerings to existing customers.
In April EDR acquired Parcel, an electronic platform for creating and delivering OUTLOOK commercial real estate due diligence The prospects for the new financial year reports.
In July Landmark acquired Quest, remain encouraging for DMGI.
Member the market-leading provider of systems companies continue to identify growth designed to manage the exchange of opportunities and we are executing valuation and survey information between a programme of revenue investment, lenders and surveyors.
designed to maintain good growth rates in the medium-term.
Property& year with an increasing rate of sales growth.
The continuation of uncertainties in the credit markets and a downturn in property OTHER B2B transactions could reduce the rate of Operating profit from DMGIs other growth in certain products, but DMGIs Adjusted operating profit business information companies rose by business models are strong and newer before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment 3 million to 11 million on revenue up products are growing well.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 26 Euromoney Institutional Investor EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PADRAIC FALLON KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 METAL BULLETIN ACQUISITION CHAIRMAN LEFT RICHARD ENSOR INTEGRATED SUCCESSFULLY 2 STRONG ORGANIC GROWTH MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT ACROSS ALL DIVISIONS, MARKETS AND REVENUE STREAMS 3 FOCUS ON PRODUCTS DELIVERED ELECTRONICALLY 4 SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE NOW THE LARGEST REVENUE STREAM 5 METAL BULLETINS BCA IS A STRONG SUBSCRIPTION BUSINESS Euromoney had an exceptional year, the training businesses: and the benefit increasing its operating profit by 29 of earlier investment in marketing and million.
This result includes a first new products.
contribution from the Metal Bulletin businesses and is stated after charging an These results were achieved on the back additional 5.7 million for its management of positive market conditions, fuelled by KEY FIGURES incentive scheme, the CAP.
record levels of liquidity, low interest rates and easy credit.
The problems in global REVENUE These results reflect the continued success credit markets, which began in early of Euromoneys strategy to drive profit August, did not affect Euromoneys profits 305m growth and build a more robust in the final quarter of the year.
Revenue and profit growth were achieved across all FINANCIAL PUBLISHING OPERATING PROFIT divisions: subscription revenues increased Revenues increased by 16%.
Euromoney sharply and now account for more than and the international edition of Institutional a third of its revenues: the performance Investor achieved advertising growth rates 68m of Metal Bulletin has surpassed that in excess of 15%, their best performance 2006: 39m projected at the time of acquisition.
Subscriptions increased by OPERATING MARGIN 21%, reflecting both volume increases in Euromoneys operating margin improved print subscriptions as well as the gradual sharply and all divisions achieved strong migration of print products to electronic 22% organic growth, based on: subscription platforms.
2006: 18% revenues for both print and electronic products continuing to show double digit BUSINESS PUBLISHING growth: advertising revenues increasing This division is now focused on three sectors at the highest rate for some time: metals, energy and legal and derives a successful strategy for growing existing nearly half its revenues from subscription events complemented by the launch of new products.
All three sectors benefited from events: continuing strong volume growth in buoyant markets, in particular high energy EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR REVENUE M 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Adjusted operating profit 0 before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 27 Euromoney Institutional Investor continued EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR OPERATING PROFIT M 90% 100 DATABASES AND INFORMATION SERVICES: RENEWAL RATES ARE IN EXCESS OF 90%.
The Metals, Minerals OUTLOOK and Mining business of Metal Bulletin is the Euromoney remains strong despite the largest component of this division and its uncertainty over the economic outlook performance improved as the benefits in general and global credit markets in of the post-acquisition restructuring and particular.
The strength and positioning of investment in marketing started to its brands, combined with a commitment to come through.
investment in marketing and new products, provides opportunities for further revenue CONFERENCES AND SEMINARS growth in 2008.
The successful integration GROWTH IN THE The strong growth achieved over the past of Metal Bulletin will generate additional SUBSCRIPTION BASE few years continued with revenues up cost savings and makes Euromoney well ACCOUNTS FOR A THIRD OF 28% due to the continued success of the placed to deliver more revenue synergies.
strategy of building large, must-attend The increased proportion of revenues now annual events in key sectors, as well as derived from high margin subscription launching new events to exploit market products, particularly those delivered trends and hot topics.
electronically, and the reduced exposure to traditionally more volatile advertising TRAINING revenues, means that earnings should be Revenues increased by 21%, driven by a more robust than previously.
combination of more targeted marketing to improve the delegate attendance rate, and new courses offered, particularly in emerging markets.
DATABASES AND INFORMATION SERVICES This division includes BCA, ISI and CEIC, three businesses which share similar characteristics: subscription-only products delivering high quality data and information in electronic-only format and with renewal rates in excess of 90%.
The inclusion of BCA means that revenues more than doubled.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 28 DMG World Media DMG WORLD MEDIA CHARLES SINCLAIR KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 FOCUS ON B2B AND B2R DIVISIONS CHAIRMAN LEFT MIKE COOKE 2 INTENTION TO SELL NORTH AMERICAN HOME INTEREST MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT 3 STRONG PERFORMANCE FROM B2B DIVISION 4 OPERATING PROFIT UP BY 12% 5 GROWTH DRIVEN BY SUCCESS OF OIL AND GAS AND TECHNOLOGY SHOWS dmg world media had a good year with a B2C strong performance by B2B, the largest The North American Home Interest sector division, offsetting falls within UK consumer had one of its strongest years on record, events and its Western US gift shows.
The Art & Antiques businesses also performed well with B2B profits up a healthy 11%.
The UK KEY FIGURES Revenues and profits were up 32% and consumer business performed poorly with 54% respectively.
In the Technology sector, revenues down by 9%.
All of this decline REVENUE ad:tech expanded rapidly by launching fell to the bottom line, leaving profits new products in Europe and Asia.
Evanta from the B2C sector down overall by 26%.
164m has made excellent progress since being 2006: 163m acquired late in 2006 with five new OUTLOOK launches of its successful series of executive dmg world media is to concentrate on its OPERATING PROFIT summits for Chief Information Officers.
We expect the Overall, revenues from the Technology sector former to show continuing good growth more than doubled and profits were up by particularly from its technology and oil and 27m 93%.
Profits from the Oil & Gas portfolio gas sectors, assisted by the holding of the 2006: 24m also increased substantially: the Oil Sands biennial Global Petroleum Show in 2008.
OPERATING MARGIN Trade Show more than doubled in size and profitability, while profits from the nonIn the B2R sector, we expect significantly annual Gastech and ADIPEC shows grew by increased profits from the accelerated 17% 75% and 14% respectively over the last time acquisition on 1st October, 2007 of the 2006: 15% they were held.
In the Middle East, the Dubairemaining 51% of GLM due to synergies based shows, which focus on serving the and cost savings.
In the B2C sector, whilst construction, interior design and hospitality the market for UK consumer shows is sectors, all grew substantially with the expected to remain difficult, the business business reporting profits up 27%.
B2R Overall, dmg world media expects to This division, including the associate perform well in 2008.
George Little Management GLM serves a number of retail sectors in North America DMG WORLD MEDIA OPERATING PROFIT M including gift, home decor and sport & leisure.
The division had a mixed year.
30 SurfExpo had two excellent shows with 25 attendance and space sales at record levels 20 and profits up by 24%.
The New York International Gift Fair and the Canadian gift 15 shows continue to perform well.
However, 10 trading has been more difficult for a number 5 of the regional gift markets.
Overall, profits Adjusted operating profit from the division were up 3%.
0 before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment 02 03 04 05 06 07 of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 29 DMG Radio DMG RADIO PETER WILLIAMS KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 DMG RADIO AUSTRALIA MADE PROGRESS CHAIRMAN LEFT PAUL THOMPSON DURING THE YEAR, BUT NOT AS RAPIDLY AS WE HAD HOPED MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT 2 LOSSES REDUCED AND ALL NOVA STATIONS ARE NOW PROFITABLE 3 THE NOVA NETWORK AGAIN THE NO.
1 NATIONAL NETWORK FOR UNDER-40 LISTENERS 4 VEGA ENJOYED STRONG RATINGS GROWTH NETWORK PERFORMANCE OTHER DEVELOPMENTS DMGRAs metropolitan revenues grew DMGRA developed its multi-media 8.5%, outpacing the overall metropolitan capabilities significantly throughout the radio revenue market which grew a little year, enhancing its online offerings for both under 6%.
This masked considerable listeners and clients.
Since the in-house variation across the states, with Sydney redevelopment of the Nova websites in KEY FIGURES tough, but Brisbane and Perth being June 2007, traffic to the networks sites particularly buoyant.
has increased 30% and over the most REVENUE recent listener survey period it was the After a disappointing 2006, the key Nova Number One radio brand site in Australia.
40m Sydney station completed this financial Of particular note is a recent tie up with 2006: 37m year with its fifth consecutive survey Apples iTunes, allowing purchase from the increase to finish with a market share Nova websites of tracks played on the radio.
OPERATING PROFIT of listeners 17% higher than at the same time in 2006.
Nova Melbourne also had On a regulatory front, legislation was a stronger 2007, completing the financial enacted during the year which relaxed the -4m year with a 12% higher market share of cross media laws in Australia, meaning a 2006: -5m listeners than at the same time in 2006. proprietor can now own two out of three OPERATING MARGIN Nova Brisbane consolidated upon its main media in a market, whereas prior to successes of 2005 and 2006 by continuing the new legislation only ownership of one to be the Number One station overall in main media outlet per market was allowed.
-9% the market in every survey of the year.
2006: -13% OUTLOOK After relaunching in 2006, the companys DMGRA moved back into profit towards second metropolitan FM brand, Vega, the end of 2006 7.
The new financial year also enjoyed strong growth in its ratings has started well for the business, with performance across the year, finishing the key Sydney market moving back into with a 3.8% share of the Sydney market real growth, and the companys sales and a 3.6% share of the Melbourne market, teams executing well on the back of compared with shares of 1.7% and 1.8% improving ratings.
respectively for the corresponding period in the prior year.
Given its increasing share DMG RADIO of its target 39-54 age demographic, it is METROPOLITAN REVENUE M now beginning to gain acceptance by the 45 key agency advertisers.
40 35 Five AA, the companys Adelaide 30 25 talk station, was the highest rating 20 metropolitan commercial talk station in 15 Australia, completing the year by winning 10 the all-important breakfast shift for 5 Adjusted operating profit the 22nd consecutive time since 0 before exceptional items and December 2004. amortisation and impairment 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 30 Financial Review THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS TO OUTLINE KEY ASPECTS OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE OVER THE LAST YEAR AND OF ITS FINANCIAL POSITION.
PETER WILLIAMS ACCOUNTS This Financial Review focuses on the FINANCE DIRECTOR No new international financial reporting adjusted numbers, in addition to the standards are required to be adopted this statutory figures, because we believe the year.
This means that the accounts have alternative measures give a more been prepared without the need for any comparable indication of the Groups prior year adjustments, caused by changes underlying business performance.
We have, however, numbers are shown opposite.
provided further detail in response to developments in international accounting REVENUE practice and to a reporting statement, The Groups revenue in the year of 2,235 issued by the Accounting Standards Board million was 3% higher than the previous on retirement benefits.
There was underlying revenue growth the length of the Annual Report even from all of our divisions, after adjusting in further this year to 152 pages, compared the case of Northcliffe and DMG Information to 92 pages two years ago, the final year in their figures to exclude the impact of KEY FIGURES which the Group Accounts were prepared acquisitions and disposals.
We estimate under UK accounting standards.
that underlying revenue growth was 5%.
REVENUE We are conscious that small shareholders The analysis of revenue by activity, 3% may not wish to receive the full report with illustrated in graph 1, shows that there has all of its long and complex disclosures.
been little overall change in the shape of OPERATING PROFIT For this reason, we have for the first time the Group in terms of revenues.
However, if produced a separate Annual Review, Associated Northcliffe Digitals activities are incorporating a summary set of financial excluded from our newspaper divisions, the 7% statements as an alternative for those percentage of revenue from newspapers STATUTORY OPERATING shareholders who have chosen to receive it.
Graph 2 PROFIT shows the geographic split of revenue.
2007 2006 m m Change This shows that 74% of revenue by source was generated by UK businesses, compared 7% Revenue 2,235 2,176 3% with 80% in 2003, but we estimate that Operating profit 322.4 300.4 7% PROFIT BEFORE TAX approximately 45% of overall Group income Income from joint is derived from revenues invoiced in ventures and US dollars.
associates 6.0 7.1 11% Investment income 1.5 3.2 OPERATING PROFIT EARNINGS PER SHARE Net interest payable 39.7 48.3 The Groups operating profit amounted to 322 million, an increase of 7% on the Other finance 6% charges 2.8 2.7 equivalent figure for last year.
This figure is stated before charging 28 million as Discontinued items 0.8 exceptional operating costs.
This charge Profit before tax 288.2 259.7 11% comprised reorganisation costs within Adjusted earnings Adjusted operating profit Associated, Northcliffe, Euromoney and before exceptional items and per share 49.3p 46.4p 6% dmg world media.
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 31 Financial Review continued The charge for amortisation of intangible and to the absence of a dividend from assets rose by 31 million to 82 million, Reuters Group plc resulting from the sale primarily due to the acquisition of Metal of the Groups remaining interest last year.
EUROMONEY SHOWED STRONG GROWTH, ENHANCED BY A Bulletin which counted for 16 million of FIRST CONTRIBUTION FROM the increase.
The Group has also made Net interest payable excluding dividend METAL BULLETIN.
an impairment charge of 53 million, income and deemed finance charges but principally relating to a number of including interest receivable fell by consumer and gift shows, its investment in 8 million to 40 million.
Higher interest Simply Switch and an additional impairment income from swap premia more than offset in respect of Loot.
After deducting these the impact of increased interest rates charges, the Groups reported operating payable on higher average net debt.
profit rose by 6% to 159 million.
OTHER INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS The analysis of operating profit by activity is The Group recorded other exceptional shown in graph 3.
This shows strong growth gains and losses of 36 million, compared from Euromoney Institutional Investor, to 189 million last year.
This comprised despite a 5 million increase in the charge mainly an exceptional profit of 42 million for its capital appreciation plan, enhanced on the deemed disposal of a portion of our by a first contribution from the Metal holding in Euromoney which issued new Bulletin businesses, and smaller rises from shares as part of its funding of the our local media, exhibitions and business acquisition of Metal Bulletin.
This gain was information divisions, as well as a reduction offset partly by a charge of 24 million, in losses by our Australian radio division.
relating to our investment in GCap Media These increases, totalling 39 million, were plc, charged to reserves in previous years, 53% 53% OF THIS YEARS offset partly by a fall of 16 million in the but now required to be recognised through OPERATING PROFIT IS profits of our national newspaper division, the Income Statement in accordance FROM BUSINESSES due to the competitive situation in the with IAS 39.
London newspaper market and to a loss by Teletext of 4 million, and by central The Group generated 10.3 million of costs which were 1 million higher.
Within foreign exchange losses on hedges of intranational newspapers, the operating profits group financing.
This foreign exchange loss of Associated Northcliffe Digital fell by is excluded from adjusted profit because an 2 million due to significant revenue equal and opposite credit is excluded from investment in developing its businesses.
In addition the 4.7 million foreign exchange loss on intraStrong growth by our business-to-business group financing, premium on repurchase operations, especially Euromoney, means of bonds and the change in fair value of that 53% of this years operating profit has put options are also excluded from been generated other than from newspaper adjusted profits.
publishing, up from 47% last year.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Statutory profit before tax for the year of The Groups share of the results of its 142 million was 54% lower than last years joint ventures and associates fell by 1 figure.
The equivalent figure in 2006 was million to 6 million.
The elimination of boosted by the profit of 175 million on the Northcliffes digital associates and an disposal of Aberdeen Journals and Study improvement in the performance of DMG Group.
Excluding amortisation and Radio Australias joint ventures was more impairment and exceptional items, the than offset by RMSs Japanese associate adjusted profit before tax figure was 288 becoming a subsidiary and a lower million, up 11% on last year.
TAXATION NET FINANCING COSTS The tax charge of 20 million represents Adjusted operating profit Dividend income fell by 2 million due mainly 14.3% of profit before tax and 7.2% of profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment to a lower distribution by GCap Media plc before amortisation and impairment.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 32 Financial Review continued GRAPH 1 REVENUE BY ACTIVITY M THE PERCENTAGE OF NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS AND RELATED REVENUE FROM NEWSPAPERS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL HAS FALLEN TO 58% FROM LOCAL MEDIA INVESTOR RADIO 67% IN 2003.
1,000 800 600 400 200 0 03 04 05 06 07 GRAPH 2 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA M UK NORTH AMERICA REST OF EUROPE REST OF THE WORLD 45% 1,800 WE ESTIMATE THAT APPROXIMATELY 45% OF 1,600 OVERALL GROUP INCOME 1,400 IS DELIVERED FROM US$ REVENUE.
1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 03 04 05 06 07 GRAPH 3 OPERATING PROFIT BY ACTIVITY M NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES AND RELATED ACTIVITIES EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL RADIO LOCAL MEDIA INVESTOR UNALLOCATED CENTRAL COSTS 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 03 04 05 06 07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY BUSINESS REVIEW 33 Financial Review continued The adjusted tax on adjusted profits neared completion.
Acquisitions cost GRAPH 4 CASH FLOWS BY ACTIVITY amounted to 76 million and the resulting 388 million, the largest items being the rate is 26.3%, up from 23.9% last year purchase of Metal Bulletin, 165 million DISPOSALS 56M EQUITY due mainly to a higher proportion of profits of which was funded by debt, Northcliffes SERVICING -62M OPERATING ACTIVITIES 391M TAXATION -44M coming from the United States, with no acquisition of titles in the South of England HEDGING OTHER -9M ACQUISITIONS -388M more accounting benefit from unrecognised for 64 million and Landmarks acquisition OWN SHARES -30M CAPITAL US tax losses.
This is still below the UK of Quest for 36 million.
Disposal proceeds DEBT SERVICING -54M EXPENDITURE -72M corporate tax rate, where the Group amounted to 56 million, principally from 700 currently makes most of its profit.
The the sale of Buy & Sell, Northcliffes retail Groups effective tax rate in the UK is higher operations and non-core Euromoney 600 than this due to expenditure disallowed for businesses.
Over the next few years the 400 adjusted tax rate is still expected to continue The Groups interest cover, calculated as to increase to around 30%, despite the the ratio of adjusted profits before interest 300 reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax and depreciation EBITDA to net interest 200 from 30% to 28% from next April.
payable, was 9.8 times this year, up from 100 7.8 in 2006 and above the Groups current Exceptional tax amounted to a net credit target of six times.
The Groups ratio of 0 of 55 million, including the 10.3 million year end net debt to EBITDA was 2.4 times.
Inflows 447m Outflows -659m tax credit on exchange differences on The Groups Standard & Poors credit GRAPH 5 intra-group financings.
rating remains at BBB, as does our rating RATIO OF EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX DEPRECIATION from Fitch.
AND AMORTISATION TO NET INTEREST PAYABLE M PENSIONS 10 The Groups defined benefit pension At the year end, the Group had 839 million schemes have moved from a deficit of of Bonds due for repayment in 2013, 2018, 8 151 million last year end to a surplus of 2021 and 2027.
It also had 120 million of 6 81 million as at 30th September, 2007 committed banking facilities available to calculated in accordance with IAS 19. it until late summer 2008 and 270 million 4 This change is primarily due to investment until September 2009.
In June, the Group returns and is despite a significant refinanced its short term debt by issuing 2 strengthening of mortality assumptions.
This 0 proved to be excellent timing, occurring 03 04 05 06 07 CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT before the liquidity crunch that emerged Net debt increased during the year from in August.
Consequently, the Group has GRAPH 6 738 million to 950 million, an increase sufficient committed debt facilities to MATURITY PROFILE OF GROUP NET DEBT M of 212 million.
Total acquisition spend, meet its foreseeable requirements.
It had 1,000 capital expenditure, taxation, interest, surplus committed facilities of 240 million dividends and share repurchases were at the year end.
800 offset partly by operating cash flows and 600 disposals of investments and businesses.
PETER WILLIAMS Finance Director 400 Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources of free cash flows and use of those funds 200 during the year.
The net cash inflow from 0 operations, joint ventures and investment was 391 million.
In general, the Groups 11 13 15 17 19 21 07 09 profits are converted rapidly into cash Year ending September and cash generation was strong across the Group, with 99% of profits converted into cash.
Capital expenditure of 72 million was lower than last years level, reflecting lower Adjusted operating profit payments on the construction of Associateds before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment new plant in Didcot, Oxfordshire, as it of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 34 DMGT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 AWARD-WINNING MENTORSHIP CHARITY ADVANCE SUPPORTED BY DMGT 2 THE QUEEN OPENS ARMED FORCES MEMORIAL FOLLOWING DAILY MAIL CAMPAIGN 3 NEWSPRINT PRODUCTION WASTE FALLS AGAIN 4 EUROMONEY RAISED MONEY FOR A CHILDRENS EYE CLINIC 5 DMGT DONATED THE ARMED FORCES MEMORIAL WAS OPENED 866,000 TO CHARITY IN 2007 6 CARBON INITIATIVE UNDERTAKEN NEAR LICHFIELD FOLLOWING A CAMPAIGN BY THE DAILY MAIL TO COMMEMORATE THE DEATHS OF MORE THAN 15,600 SOLDIERS.
DMGTs activities are global and diverse.
Please Each business provides important channels send any comments to: of communication and media focus to investor.
@ different sections of society throughout the world.
The DMGT Boards Risk Committee is the forum at which corporate responsibility The Group owes much of its success to the CR risks are discussed.
The Board has entrepreneurial ability of the management adopted policies on equal opportunities, teams leading its six divisions.
These whistle blowing, health and safety and the businesses have thrived by allowing local environment.
Overall responsibility for CR management to take local decisions in at Board level lies with the Finance Director.
a local context, while benefiting from the global outlook and financial resources DMGT AND THE ENVIRONMENT of the wider Group.
The direct environmental impacts from most of our mostly office-based divisions The success of many of DMGTs businesses are relatively low and arise mainly in our is inextricably linked to understanding and printing division.
engaging with the communities they serve, and this allows them to identify needs Our offices around the world practise and to campaign effectively on the issues paper recycling, and more than half of relevant to their customer base.
This office paper waste at DMGT headquarters approach has delivered benefits to a is recycled.
There are also schemes in broad range of stakeholders.
place for the recycling of plastic cups, toner cartridges, mobile phones and THE AIM OF THIS REPORT IT equipment.
The following report provides more detail of divisional activities focused around key Our main focus is on how we manage the impact areas: impact of our Harmsworth Printing arm in the environment the UK and two presses in Hungary, where our readers, viewers and listeners the key environmental impacts are waste the community generation particularly waste newsprint, TARGETS FOR WASTE PAPER ARE SET FOR EACH PRODUCT our employees.
energy use, ink use, and paper purchasing.
Reported here is a summary of our disclosure All printing centres have environmental in this area.
DMGT produced a separate management policies.
The use of energy, Corporate Responsibility Report in 2005.
It newsprint, ink and plates and waste has a dedicated section on the Group website, disposal have cost implications and are, www.
co. uk, with further information therefore, managed for reasons of good available that is updated regularly.
business sense, as well as to reduce their environmental impact.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 35 continued Efficiency DMGT sources its paper from European The Group achieved a marginal mills, most of which hold the environmental improvement in CO2 efficiency, as explained management standard ISO14001.
Ninetyon page 16 of the Summary Business eight per cent of virgin fibre products are NEWSPRINT PRODUCTION WASTE FELL AGAIN Review.
Newsprint production waste, as a sourced from managed forests.
percentage of total output, fell again.
DMGTS CARBON FOOTPRINT Good improvements were made in water During the past year DMGT has employed efficiency during the year with Harmsworth an external firm of consultants to carry Printing making further strides to cut out a Carbon Footprint Analysis across the water use in its printing operations, whole Group.
They focused on every facility following a previous study.
within the Group, gathering data for the base year of 2005 6 and then for the 2006 7 Waste financial year.
In 2005 6 the Groups Carbon Waste newsprint and ink use is measured Footprint was 116,000 tonnes, which and reported to divisional board meetings increased to 119,000 tonnes in 2006 7. on a monthly basis.
Seventy per cent of The results of the exercise to calculate the presses on which we print the Groups the Groups Carbon Footprint are being titles are computer-to-plate processes, analysed with a view to developing a which result in less waste being produced strategy for its reduction.
Digital photography is used in ever increasing amounts.
OUR READERS, VIEWERS AND LISTENERS Targets for waste paper are set for each Editorial standards product printed.
This percentage varies There are a number of standard-setting according to certain criteria, such as the bodies that have established codes to 100% numbers of copies required and edition which DMGTs divisions adhere.
Actual waste volumes are WASTE IS RECYCLED compared against budgeted levels, with The main code for the Groups UK the results provided for monthly review newspapers is established and monitored at the appropriate board level.
Newsprint by the Press Complaints Commission.
The production waste as a percentage of total newspapers also adhere to the Code of newspaper output has fallen again Practice of Newspaper and Magazine this year.
Teletext works to the standards set by Ofcom and its Editorial Code of One hundred per cent of production paper Practice which covers current broadcasting waste is recycled.
legislation, while DMG Radio complies with the Australian Communications and Media Sourcing Authority Codes of Conduct and the DMGT is aware of the responsibility it has Commercial Radio Codes of Practice and along the supply chain, in particular for one Broadcasting Services Act.
of its largest purchases: newsprint.
The Group has a central Newsprint Committee, Responding to reader, viewer and listener allowing co-ordinated review of the needs environmental credentials of paper Remaining in touch with the diverse groups suppliers and the sourcing of their products.
who make up our communities and reflecting and championing their interests Where virgin fibres are used in the paper is critical to DMGTs success.
manufacture, DMGT requires that the forests are certified either by the Forest Reader, viewer and listener satisfaction Stewardship Council or the Pan European is monitored in a number of ways, Forestry Commission, both of which run including timely responses to complaints, schemes that provide credible guarantees regular in-house programming and sales that the product comes from well research, readership surveys and other managed forests.
processes to receive feedback actively from customers.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 36 continued Within the established editorial framework, Internal communication editors and journalists have the freedom A variety of approaches to staff to operate as appropriate.
Compliance with communications exist within the Group, THE PAPER USED FOR editorial standards is strictly monitored including: LANDMARKS REPORTS WILL within the divisions in various ways, the Group extranet NOW BE OFFSET WITH TREE which include compliance committees, regular communication events PLANTINGS AS PART OF A NEW PARTNERSHIP WITH THE editorial responsibility, compliance audits face-to-face communications with WOODLAND TRUST.
management programmes related to specific key DMGT AND THE COMMUNITY events such as major changes in Community involvement is integral to operations or equipment.
our business as well as to the personal motivation of our employees.
We donate Furthermore, a new Group intranet, DMGT money, time and in-kind donations such Connect will be launched in December.
as radio airtime and Teletext pages, and staff actively give time to areas including Health and safety fundraising and trusteeships.
This year, A health and safety policy applies across Euromoney undertook a project to build a DMGT and sets out to ensure the health, childrens eye clinic in Orissa, the poorest safety and welfare of its employees and state in India, in order to tackle avoidable all others who could be affected by the blindness in the region.
In 2007, the Group donated 866,000 There are many examples of good practice 866,000 to charity.
across the Group, in terms of health and DMGT DONATED 866,000 safety management systems, the use of TO CHARITY IN 2007.
The use of media channels and activities independent consultants and initiatives for fundraising is driven through focused on business-specific health and participation in the communities we serve safety risk areas.
and the concerns and contributions of our readers, viewers and listeners.
Health and safety is particularly critical in all printing press facilities, which have Charitable donations are allocated by a appropriate policies and management and Charities Committee at DMGT, as well as monitoring programmes.
being made on a smaller scale by divisional and local managements.
The Committee The Group has had no fines or prefers to make donations to media and prosecutions for health and safety failures local charities where there is an employee over the last year.
representative who will sponsor and report back on the impact the allocation has had.
While the Chief Executive has overall responsibility at Board level for health DMGT AND OUR EMPLOYEES and safety matters throughout the Group, DMGT Group is an equal opportunities day-to-day responsibility is devolved to employer.
In addition to a Group policy, the managing directors of each division.
many divisions have their own policies and practices across a range of employee issues.
Training is taken seriously across the Group.
A GROUP-WIDE INTRANET, DMGT CONNECT, IS ABOUT TO BE LAUNCHED TO KEEP EMPLOYEES UP TO DATE WITH KEY DEVELOPMENTS.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc 37 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY 2 3 4 5 1 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 1 THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE Chairman 39 7 D M M DUTTON Executive Director 65 13 D J VEREY, CBE Independent Non-Executive Director 56 Lord Rothermere was appointed to the Board in David Dutton was appointed to the Board in 1997.
David Verey was appointed to the Board in 2004.
1995 and appointed Chairman in 1998, having joined He advises the Group on property matters and is He is chairman of the Blackstone Group UK and the Group in 1994.
He is a non-executive director of chairman of DMG Information.
was formerly chairman of Lazard, London.
8 P M DACRE Executive Director 59 14 K J BEATTY Executive Director 50 2 C J F SINCLAIR Chief Executive 59 Paul Dacre was appointed to the Board in 1998, Kevin Beatty was appointed to the Board in 2004, Charles Sinclair was appointed to the Board in 1988 having joined the Group in 1979.
He has been editor having joined the Group in 1996.
He is managing and appointed Chief Executive in 1989, having joined of the Daily Mail since 1992 and editor-in-chief of director of Associated Newspapers and was the Group in 1975.
He is a non-executive director of Associated Newspapers since 1998. managing director of Northcliffe Newspapers Euromoney Institutional Investor plc and of SVG between 2001 and 2004.
9 P M FALLON Executive Director Irish 61 Capital plc.
Padraic Fallon was appointed to the Board in 1999.
15 N W BERRY Independent Non-Executive Director 65 3 J P WILLIAMS, FCA Finance Director 54 He is chairman of Euromoney Institutional Investor Nicholas Berry was appointed to the Board in Peter Williams was appointed to the Board as Group plc and was a non-executive director of Allied Irish February 2007.
He is chairman of Stancroft Trust Finance Director in 1991, having joined the Group in Banks plc until May 2007.
He joined Euromoney with wide experience in media and investment in 1982.
He is a non-executive director of Euromoney in 1974 as editor and was managing director from emerging markets.
Institutional Investor plc, GCap Media plc and of Ibis 1985 to 1992.
16 N D JENNINGS, FCA Secretary 47 Media VCT plc.
10 C W DUNSTONE Independent Non-Executive Director 43 Nicholas Jennings was appointed Company 4 J G HEMINGWAY Non-Executive Director 76 Charles Dunstone was appointed to the Board Secretary in 1999, having joined the Group in 1988.
John Hemingway was appointed to the Board in in 2001.
He is founder and chief executive of the He is also responsible for investor relations.
He is an independent solicitor.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc and a non-executive Member of the Audit Committee director of HBOS plc.
5 S M GRAY, FCA Non-Executive Director 73 Member of the Nominations Committee Marius Gray was appointed to the Board in 1985.
11 F P BALSEMO Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee He was senior partner of Dixon Wilson, Chartered Portuguese 70 Member of the Risk Committee Accountants, and is chairman of the Audit Francisco Balsemo was appointed to the Board in Committee.
He is chairman and chief executive of IMPRESA, S. G. P. S. chairman of the European Publishers 6 I G PARK, CBE Non-Executive Director 72 Council and a former prime minister of Portugal.
Ian Park was appointed to the Board in 1994.
He was managing director of Northcliffe Newspapers from 12 T S GILLESPIE Non-Executive Director Canadian 69 1982 to 1995 and its chairman from 1995 to 2003.
Tom Gillespie was appointed to the Board in 2004.
He was formerly President of the Newspaper Society He is a former senior partner of Ogilvy Renault and and chairman of the Press Association.
has advised the Group on legal matters in Canada for many years.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT 38 This report is a summary of the full Directors and Corporate SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Governance Reports set out in the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company has two classes of share capital Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 20th November, 2007 the ACTIVITIES following were interested in more than 3% of the issued Ordinary The principal activities of the Group are set out at the front of this shares: Annual Review.
Rothermere Continuation Limited and other parties to an agreement which comes within BUSINESS REVIEW section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 63.1% The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of the business review is included in the Business Review in the full Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan Annual Report and Accounts.
A summary of the business review is Trustees BVI Ltd trustees of the Esmond included on pages 8 to 33 of this Annual Review.
Harmsworth 1998 Family Settlement 29.3% This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk The Company is committed to high standards of corporate and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on governance.
The Company has substantially complied with the circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There provisions of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Services are a number of factors that could cause actual results or Authority in July 2003, except where the Board has determined developments to differ materially from those expressed or that they are inappropriate to the particular circumstances implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements are reasonable as they can be affected by a wide range of A detailed statement on how the Company has applied the variables.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge principles of the Combined Code is set out in the full Annual and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have reviewed the Review, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Companys statements as to compliance with the Combined Code Annual Review should be construed as a profit forecast.
to the extent required by the UKLA Listing Rules.
The results of their review are included in the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 122.3 million.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS After charging minority interests of 15.3 million, the Group profit All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General for the year amounted to 107.0 million.
Meeting, of which 20 working days notice is given, where they have the opportunity to speak to Directors.
An interim dividend of 4.45 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the Directors In the interests of transparency and to assist private shareholders, recommend that a final dividend of 9.90 pence per share be paid the Company posts all announcements and general presentations on 8th February, 2008 making 14.35 pence per share for the year given to analysts and institutions on its corporate website.
Shareholders and others interested in the Group are encouraged to use the site and to email questions which they might have to DIRECTORS investor.
Questions to particular Directors @ Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at should be addressed through the Secretary.
20th November, 2007 are set out on page 37.
The Directors remained unchanged throughout the year with the exception AUDITORS of Mr Berry who was appointed to the Board on 7th February, To the best of the Directors knowledge and belief and having 2007 in place of Mr Lowy who stood down on the same day.
made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Company, all information relevant to enable the auditors to provide their opinion The number of shares of the Company in which the Directors or on the Accounts has been provided.
Each of the Directors has their families had an interest at the year end, are stated in the taken all reasonable steps in order to ensure their awareness of Summary Remuneration Report on page 42. any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Viscount Rothermere, Messrs Hemingway, Gray, Williams, Dacre, Dunstone The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated and Beatty retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting on 6th their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with February, 2008.
Each being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 1st October, 2007, DMG World Media acquired the remaining AUDITORS REPORT 51% stake in George Little Management for a consideration of The report of the auditors on the accounts for the year ended US$155 million 77 million.
30th September, 2007 was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either of sections 237 2 and 237 3 of the POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS Companies Act 1985.
The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or standard which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, their policy is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified by, and agreed with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT 39 continued REPORTS AND ACCOUNTS The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30th September, 2007 constitutes the statutory Reports and Accounts for 2007 and is available in electronic form on the Companys website, www.
Printed copies may be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Secretary, Daily Mail and General Trust plc, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT.
Shareholders who wish to receive the statutory Reports and Accounts free of charge instead of Summary Financial Statements or vice versa in future years should write to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, quoting Reference 0985.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 6th February, 2008 at 9.00 a. m. at the Kensington Roof Gardens, 99 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Details of all resolutions, including those to be put as special business, are set out in the enclosed circular to shareholders.
By Order of the Board N D JENNINGS, FCA Secretary 20th November, 2007 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT 40 This report is a summary of the full Remuneration Report set out iv share options, designed to provide a long-term incentive which in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The full report will be voted aligns their interests to those of shareholders.
It is not intended in on at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
the future to grant options to Executive Directors who receive awards in the proposed LTIP, except in exceptional circumstances.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee, which was established in 1992, is PENSIONS responsible inter alia for overall Group remuneration policy and The Group operates a two-tier defined benefit pension scheme for setting the remuneration, benefits and terms and conditions for senior employees including most of the Companys executive of employment of the Companys executive Directors and other Directors, details of which are given on pages 44 and 45.
It is the senior managers.
The Committees terms of reference are Companys policy that annual bonuses, payments under the available on the Companys website.
Executive Bonus Scheme and benefits in kind are not pensionable.
In September, the Committee conducted a formal review of the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSHIPS Committees effectiveness and concluded that it had fulfilled its The Company allows its executive Directors to take a very limited remit and been effective in the year.
Individuals retain the payments received from such services since these appointments are not REMUNERATION POLICY expected to impinge on their principal employment.
This does not The Committee seeks to structure remuneration packages on apply where a Group executive serves as a non-executive Director an individual basis appropriate to the level of responsibility, but of a company because the Group has a significant interest, as in generally designed to retain and motivate the individual.
the case of Mr Williams directorship of GCap Media plc.
In this case, all fees are paid to the Company.
The Chairman is also the largest shareholder in the Company.
He has been and will continue to be a long-term shareholder.
His NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION shareholding provides an alignment with long-term shareholders The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined that is not always the case in other companies.
In setting his by the Board.
Fees payable are reviewed annually, including a remuneration the Committee has adopted the same policy as for comparison with the level of fees paid by other companies of other executive Directors.
In the case of Mr Fallon, the Committee similar size and complexity: these fees are shown in the table considers that his remuneration as executive chairman of below.
A recommendation to the Board on this subject is then Euromoney Institutional Investor plc Euromoney, a separately made.
The basic fee as a Director was raised to 30,000 per listed company, should be set by the remuneration committee of annum on 1st October, 2006.
No increase is being made for that company.
The report on this is set out in Euromoneys the year to 28th September, 2008.
In addition, fees are paid for membership of Board committees.
The Committee also review the Chief Executives Committee fees range from 4,000 per annum to 12,500 per recommendations for the remuneration packages for the annum, except that the Audit Committee chairman receives a fee managing directors of the Companys operating divisions, of 20,000 per annum which was raised to 25,000 with effect other than Euromoney, and oversees the bonus arrangements from 1st October, 2007.
No other increases are being made for established in each division, including long-term incentive the year to 28th September, 2008. arrangements.
These are designed individually to reflect the targets and objectives of each division.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The total amounts of the remuneration and other benefits of the The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy Directors of the Company for the years ended 30th September, needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of commercial 2007 and 1st October, 2006 are shown below for Directors: demands, changing market practice and shareholder 2007 2006 expectations.
Investors will be consulted about any key issues 000 000 that arise and Ordinary shareholders will be provided with the Aggregate emoluments 10,753 7,832 opportunity to endorse the Companys remuneration policy on a regular basis through the annual vote on the Remuneration Gains on exercise of share options 166 14 Report.
Any new long-term incentive schemes for the executive Amounts receivable under Directors would be submitted to shareholders.
long-term incentive schemes 748 REMUNERATION COMPONENTS Sums paid to third parties A significant proportion of the remuneration is performancefor Directors services 79 77 related.
10,998 8,671 The main components of the remuneration package for executive Directors are: i basic salary, reviewed annually: ii where appropriate, annual performance related bonus: iii where appropriate, a long-term incentive plan, whereby executives are awarded shares under the proposed Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, further details of which are included in the accompanying circular to shareholders: Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT 41 continued The emoluments of the Directors are shown below: 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 Fees Cash Benefits Bonus Pension Pension and salary allowances in kind Profit share 2007 2006 contributions contributions Note i Notes ii Note iii Note iv Total Total Note v Note v 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE 629 28 8 160 825 827 53 C J F SINCLAIR 996 373 1 541 1,911 1,375 J P WILLIAMS 578 213 1 252 1,044 785 D M M DUTTON 2701 271 254 P M DACRE 1,034 443 17 1,494 1,234 P M FALLON 221 14 15 3,751 4,001 2,240 700 K J BEATTY 575 21 268 864 800 49 J G HEMINGWAY 79 79 77 S M GRAY 101 101 99 I G PARK 451 46 46 C W DUNSTONE 40 40 38 F P BALSEMO 34 34 32 T S GILLESPIE 36 36 36 D J VEREY 50 50 38 N W BERRY 26 26 F P LOWY 10 10 28 4,724 1,071 65 4,972 10,832 7,909 802 2006 Total 4,409 554 117 2,829 7,909 NOTES TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Of the potential bonus for individual performance targets, i The figures for fees and salary include fees for Directors of Mr Sinclair was awarded 40% out of 40%, and Mr Williams 32.5% subsidiaries including for the Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair out of 50%.
and Mr Williams as directors of Euromoney.
For non-executive Directors they also include Committee fees, where applicable.
Mr Fallon is entitled to 6.49% of the pre-tax profit earned by Euromoney, which has a comprehensive profit sharing scheme that ii Cash allowances include an allowance paid to each of Messrs links the pay of its executive directors to the profits of that group.
Sinclair, Williams and Dacre, in lieu of continued membership of the DMGT Senior Executives Pension Fund, from 6th April, 2006.
Mr Beatty earned a bonus, based on meeting performance targets The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair and Mr Williams also at Associated Newspapers.
receive a cash allowance instead of having a company car and Mr Dacre instead of the Company providing Central London v Pension contributions are those made to money purchase accommodation.
iii Benefits in kind include the taxable value of company cars, fuel vi The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair, Mr Williams and allowances and company contributions to medical insurance plans.
Mr Fallon retained fees of 25,000 2006 18,000, 36,000 2006 44,000, 23,000 2006 8,800 and 22,000 2006 36,000 iv Group adjusted earnings per share for the year ended respectively from their outside non-executive directorships.
30th September, 2007 before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, and exceptional items have shown an increase in the year of 6.3% which, under the Scheme, results in a bonus of 26.56% being earned by Lord Rothermere, 15.94% by Mr Sinclair and 13.28% by Mr Williams.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT 42 continued DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST LONG TERM performance against a peer group of comparable media INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP companies.
This peer group was chosen to reflect a range of The LTIP, established in 2001 and revised in 2006, is designed to listed companies in the businesses and locations principally align the interests of participants and shareholders by requiring occupied by DMGT.
The LTIP is supervised by the Committee and participants to make a substantial investment in the Company is operated in conjunction with an employee discretionary trust as a condition to participating in the LTIP.
Further, the LTIP will the Trust.
The Trust will acquire A Ordinary Non-Voting Shares only provide rewards for participants if the Company achieves in the Company shares to satisfy awards under the LTIP.
exceptional returns for shareholders: this is achieved by The Committee intends to operate the LTIP annually.
calibrating participants rewards by reference to the Companys SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES AND SHARE PLANS AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER 2007 Number of Number of Beneficial shareholdings shares under shares Note i DMGT LTIP under option Ordinary A Ordinary Note ii Note iii THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE 11,878,632 76,195,913 230,145 436,000 C J F SINCLAIR 438,150 153,942 698,000 J P WILLIAMS 229,552 187,291 365,000 J G HEMINGWAY 200,000 S M GRAY 4,000 84,000 I G PARK 4,000 4,000 D M M DUTTON 102,312 88,698 180,000 P M DACRE 125,950 125,774 665,000 P M FALLON 41,500 C W DUNSTONE 13,800 F P BALSEMO T S GILLESPIE 5,000 D J VEREY 6,500 15,000 K J BEATTY 27,919 27,919 253,000 N W BERRY i The figures in the table above indicate the number of shares of iii The table sets out options granted under the DMGT 1997 the Company and of securities of other Group companies in which Executive Share Options Scheme from July 1997 to December current Directors or their families had an interest at the dates 2004: and under the DMGT 2006 Executive Share Option Scheme shown.
The figures include A shares committed by executives since March 2006.
All options under both schemes were granted under the LTIP and also shares awarded to executives under the at market value at the date of grant and in all circumstances DMGT Executive Bonus Scheme.
will lapse if not exercised within ten years.
No Directors options lapsed or had terms and conditions varied during the year.
ii Prospective participants are invited by the Committee to agree to commit shares in the Company to the LTIP at a market price.
Individuals are given six months to make commitments in order to allow for them to make purchases of shares where appropriate.
Once an individual has agreed to commit shares which are owned by him or by his close family, the Trustee of the Trust the Trustee decides whether to make an award of an equal number of shares to those committed.
Awards under the LTIP have been made to six executive Directors.
In 2007 each Director was invited to commit shares up to 50% of his salary.
No awards vested or lapsed in the year and all participants elected to delay the realisation of their 2002 awards for a further two years.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT 43 continued TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT vs FTSE 100 2002-2007 Under performance -29% Key 250% DMGT A TSR FTSE 100 TSR 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT vs FTSE 100 1986-2007 Out performance 122% Key 4000% DMGT A TSR FTSE 100 TSR 3000% 2000% 1000% 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT vs Media Sector 2002-2007 Under performance -14% Key 200% DMGT A TSR Media Sector TSR 100% 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT vs Media Sector 1986-2007 Out performance 188% Key 4000% DMGT A TSR Media Sector TSR 3000% 2000% 1000% 0% Daily Mail and General Trust plc Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 02 Sep 07 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 86 Sep 87 Sep 88 Sep 89 Sep 90 Sep 91 Sep 92 Sep 93 Sep 94 Sep 95 Sep 96 Sep 97 Sep 98 Sep 99 Sep 00 Sep 01 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 86 Sep 87 Sep 88 Sep 89 Sep 90 Sep 91 Sep 92 Sep 93 Sep 94 Sep 95 Sep 96 Sep 97 Sep 98 Sep 99 Sep 00 Sep 01 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT 44 continued The status of both performance conditions on outstanding share TSR condition 2006 Exercise performance to options is as follows: Scheme price date v. median EPS condition Status TSR condition Status 1997 Exercise performance to Scheme price date v. FTSE 100 EPS condition Status Mar 06 6.98 -24% not yet tested not vested Dec 98 6.48 met met vested Nov 06 6.88 -6% not yet tested not vested Dec 99 10.30 -57% met not vested GRAPHS June 00 10.96 -65% met not vested The graphs on page 43 compare the DMGT total shareholder Dec 00 8.34 met met vested return with that of the FTSE 100 index and of the media index over a period of five years, as required by the Directors Remuneration Jul 01 7.25 met met vested Report Regulations 2002.
The Directors regard both indices as Dec 01 6.45 met met vested the most appropriate indices for purposes of comparison of the Groups performance.
Additional graphs illustrate performance Dec 02 5.73 -78% met not vested over a 21 year period for which data is available.
Dec 03 6.08 -59% met not vested Dec 04 7.24 -58% met in year not vested ACCRUED ENTITLEMENTS UNDER THE DMGT SENIOR EXECUTIVES PENSION FUND Transfer value Accrued Accrued of real increase Transfer Age at pension entitlement Transfer in accrued Other value as 30th entitlement at Real increase at 30th value as at pension net changes to at 30th September 1st October Inflationary in accrued September 1st October Members of members transfer September 2007 2006 increase pension 2007 2006 contributions contribution value 2007 Director Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE 39 3319 43 226 15 54 30 325 C J F SINCLAIR 59 576 21 26 623 11,411 547 945 12,903 J P WILLIAMS 54 265 10 18 293 3,693 284 458 4,435 P M DACRE 58 598 22 8 628 11,381 167 999 12,547 K J BEATTY 49 42 2 20 64 446 14 217 59 736 ACCRUED BENEFITS UNDER THE MAIL NEWSPAPERS PENSION SCHEME Accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer Age at pension entitlement Transfer value of real Other value as 30th entitlement at Real increase at 30th value as at increase changes to at 30th September 1st October Inflationary in accrued September 1st October in accrued transfer September 2007 2006 increase pension 2007 2006 pension value 2007 Director Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 P M FALLON 61 7 7 1371 138 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT 45 continued NOTES TO DIRECTORS PENSION ENTITLEMENTS In the event of earlier termination of their contracts, each Director i The DMGT Senior Executives Pension Fund, of which five is entitled to compensation equal to their basic salary, benefits, executive Directors are members, has since 1st April, 2005 pension entitlement and, as appropriate, bonus or profit share for required a contribution from its members.
The normal retirement their notice period.
age under the Fund for this group is 60.
For each Director, the accrued entitlement at 1st October, 2006 represents the annual The contracts of Mr Sinclair and Mr Williams are subject to pension that is expected to be payable on eventual retirement, mitigation and in the event of the Director obtaining alternative given the length of service and salary of each Director at this employment during the notice period do not provide for further date.
A spouses dependants pension equal to two thirds of the payment after such event.
This mitigation does not apply to Directors pension is incorporated and the Director can currently their pension benefit.
Share options would be treated as for any elect to receive the pension from age 50, subject to a discount if member of the scheme, depending on the reason for termination retirement takes place before 60.
The pension, when in payment, of the contract.
Mr Sinclair is entitled, on a change of control will receive annual increases in line with inflation, which may be of the Company, to give notice under his contract within 60 days limited when inflation exceeds 3% per annum.
of the change of control, and to receive compensation for basic salary and benefits for his notice period.
ii All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Retirement Benefit Schemes On behalf of the Board Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer values of the accrued ROTHERMERE entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension Chairman scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on 20th November, 2007 transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
iii Mr Fallon waived profit share in respect of the current year and of future years of Nil 2006 700,000.
Mr Fallons pension benefit in the above table relates to a deferred pension in the Mail Newspapers Pension Scheme for pensionable service between 1st April, 1978 and 1st April, 1986.
Neither the Group nor Mr Fallon continues to make any contributions to this scheme.
iv The Company does not make any pension contributions on behalf of Mr Dutton.
SERVICE CONTRACTS Contracts of service are negotiated on an individual basis as part of the overall remuneration package and their length is inevitably conditioned by external competitive pressures.
Details of these service contracts are set out below: Company Date of Notice with whom contract period contracted THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE 17th Oct, 94 1 month DMGT C J F SINCLAIR 15th Dec, 06 1 year DMGT J P WILLIAMS 30th Nov, 04 1 year DMGT D M M DUTTON 27th Nov, 02 1 year DMGT P M DACRE 13th July, 98 2 years DMGT P M FALLON 2nd June, 86 1 year Euromoney K J BEATTY 19th May, 02 1 year Associated Daily Mail and General Trust plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT 46 TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC We have examined the summary financial statements of Daily Mail and General Trust plc which comprise the summary consolidated income statement, summary consolidated balance sheet, summary consolidated cash flow statement, the summary statement of recognised income and expenses and the summary report on Directors remuneration.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Daily Mail and General Trust Annual Review and summary financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the Daily Mail and General Trust Annual Review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Daily Mail and General Trust Annual Review and summary financial statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BASIS OF OPINION We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the full Daily Mail and General Trust financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the report on Directors remuneration.
OPINION In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full Daily Mail and General Trust financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report of Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended 30th September, 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London 20th November, 2007 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 47 for the year ended 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 Total Total Note m m CONTINUING OPERATIONS Revenue 2,235.1 2,176.0 Operating profit before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 322.4 300.4 Exceptional operating costs 1 28.1 41.1 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 134.9 109.8 Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures and associates 159.4 149.5 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1.8 5.6 Total operating profit 161.2 155.1 Other gains and losses 2 35.7 188.6 Profit before net finance costs and tax 196.9 343.7 Investment income 7.0 7.1 Finance costs 61.8 39.3 Net finance costs 54.8 32.2 Profit before tax 142.1 311.5 Tax 20.3 60.0 Profit after tax from continuing operations 121.8 251.5 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Profit for the period from discontinued operations 0.5 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 122.3 251.5 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 107.0 239.8 Minority interests 15.3 11.7 Profit for the year 122.3 251.5 Earnings per share From continuing operations Basic 27.3p 60.8p Diluted 27.1p 60.7p From discontinued operations Basic 0.1p 0.0p Diluted 0.1p 0.0p From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 27.4p 60.8p Diluted 27.2p 60.7p 1.
Exceptional operating costs comprise reorganisation costs of 13.3 million within national newspapers, 6.0 million within local media, 5.9 million within Euromoney and 2.9 million within exhibitions.
Other gains and losses comprise 42.4 million on the deemed disposal of subsidiaries and 17.7 million of profits on sale of businesses and assets, offset by a 24.4 million impairment charge relating to GCap Media plc.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 48 for the year ended 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 m m Profit for the year 122.3 251.5 Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.8 21.9 Fair value movements on available for sale investments 0.2 26.7 Change in value of hedges recorded in equity 19.8 11.3 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 207.1 34.6 Current tax on items recognised in equity 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax on actuarial movement 60.9 10.4 Deferred tax on other items recognised directly in equity 1.2 3.1 Total recognised income and expense for the year before transfers 291.8 241.2 Transfers Impairment of GCap Media plc recognised in income statement 24.4 Translation reserves recycled to income statement on disposals 0.1 Transfer of gain on cash flow hedges from fair value reserves to income statement 2.7 Transfer to income statement on disposal of available for sale assets 15.7 Transfers 21.6 15.7 Total recognised income and expense for the year 313.4 225.5 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 296.0 213.8 Minority interests 17.4 11.7 Total recognised income and expense for the year 313.4 225.5 SUMMARY RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY for the year ended 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 m m Total recognised income and expense for the year 313.4 225.5 Dividends paid 53.2 48.6 Issue of share capital 2.7 1.4 Exercise of acquisition option commitments 7.2 Movement in losses attributable to minorities which are borne by Group 5.4 Initial recording of put options granted to minority interests in subsidiaries 18.5 11.7 Other transactions with minorities 1.1 Settlement of exercised share options of subsidiary 13.2 25.3 Credit to equity for share based payments 18.1 11.6 Shares purchased to be held in treasury 32.8 32.4 Own shares released on exercise of share options 4.9 9.3 Other movements in minority interests 12.3 5.7 Total movement in equity for the year 245.2 124.1 Equity at the beginning of year 475.3 351.2 Equity at the end of year 720.5 475.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 49 for the year ended 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 313.4 350.8 Investing activities Interest received 5.7 3.5 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 6.6 7.0 Dividends received from available for sale investments 1.5 3.8 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 72.2 117.5 Purchase of available for sale investments 0.6 21.6 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5.3 19.1 Proceeds on disposal of investments 2.1 28.6 Purchase of subsidiaries 312.3 293.4 Internally generated intangible fixed assets 14.0 10.5 Treasury hedging activities 32.8 5.3 Investment in joint ventures and associates 14.5 13.7 Loans to joint ventures and associates repaid 5.0 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 37.0 186.5 Proceeds on disposal of associates 1.1 Net cash used in investing activities 316.5 202.9 Financing activities Equity dividends paid 52.6 48.6 Dividends paid to minority interests 8.9 7.7 Issue of share capital 2.7 1.4 Issue of shares by Group companies to minority interests 0.5 2.2 Purchase of own shares 32.8 31.0 Settlement of subsidiary share option plan 8.7 6.4 Interest paid 56.6 50.1 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 0.1 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 7.2 Proceeds on issue of bond 197.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 2.6 Bonds redeemed 9.4 Loan notes repaid 2.8 2.1 Repayment of other borrowings 54.7 23.7 Net cash used in financing activities 28.1 173.3 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 31.2 25.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 96.1 124.0 Exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents 0.9 2.5 Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year 64.0 96.1 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Net debt at start of year 738.2 767.0 Cash flow 162.8 11.2 Issued on acquisition of subsidiaries 0.5 Arising with acquisition 34.1 3.2 Sold on disposals 7.0 Foreign exchange movements 2.4 13.6 Other non-cash movements 17.7 0.7 Net debt at end of year 950.4 738.2 Daily Mail and General Trust plc SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 50 as at 30th September, 2007 2007 2006 m m ASSETS Non-current assets 2,246.2 1,831.5 Current assets 541.5 518.5 Total assets 2,787.7 2,350.0 LIABILITIES Current liabilities 870.9 766.1 Non-current liabilities 1,196.3 1,108.6 Total liabilities 2,067.2 1,874.7 Net assets 720.5 475.3 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Called up share capital 49.4 50.2 Share premium account 12.4 9.7 Share capital 61.8 59.9 Capital redemption reserve 0.8 Revaluation reserve 46.0 46.5 Shares held in treasury 44.4 63.1 Translation reserve 27.0 8.2 Retained earnings 601.7 423.8 Equity shareholders' funds 692.9 475.3 Equity minority interests 27.6 720.5 475.3 These summary financial statements, extracted from the full financial statements, have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 20th November, 2007 and signed on its behalf by ROTHERMERE C J F SINCLAIR Directors Daily Mail and General Trust plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 51 COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE notification by email of the release of the Half yearly and Annual Reports.
All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, CREST lost share certificates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Shareholders have the choice either of holding their shares in Mail and General Investments plc, or changes of address should electronic form in an account on the CREST system or in the be directed to Equiniti, at the address set out on page 52. physical form of share certificates.
@ Daily Mail and General Trust plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 52 continued SHAREGIFT sell than they are worth.
