Subsidiary Undertakings At 31 December 2007, the principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company were: Name of Company Country of Incorporation Operation Main Activity Dana Petroleum E&P Limited UK Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum North Sea Limited UK Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum Norway AS Norway Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum East Zeit Limited Cayman Islands Egypt Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum East Beni Suef Limited Cayman Islands Egypt Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum Qarun Limited Cayman Islands Egypt Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum WAG Limited Cayman Islands Egypt Oil & gas exploration & production Dana Petroleum Jersey Limited Jersey Financing Held by subsidiary undertaking.
The Cayman and Jersey subsidiaries are managed and controlled from the UK and have UK tax residency.
All of the above companies are wholly owned.
Further details of subsidiary undertakings are available at the headquarters of Dana Petroleum plc.
AcquisitioN of suBsiDiAriEs Ener Petroleum ASA subsequently renamed Dana Petroleum Norway AS On 12 June 2007 the Company signed conditional subscription and acquisition agreements for shares in the Norwegian independent oil company Ener Petroleum ASA Ener, a company listed on the Norwegian OTC market.
The Company agreed terms to conditionally subscribe for 1,518,750 new shares in Ener at a subscription price of NOK 160 per share, representing approximately 53% of the fully diluted share capital of Ener following the issuance of the new shares to Dana.
In addition, the Company entered into share acquisition agreements for the purchase of certain existing shares in Ener, all at a price per share of NOK 220 payable in cash.
These initiatives delivered control of approximately 93.7% of the total shares in Ener, following completion on 11 July 2007 and upon regulatory approvals from the Norwegian Ministry of Petroleum and Energy and The Norwegian Ministry of Finance.
Thereafter a formal process was instigated to acquire the remaining minority shareholdings.
This deal represents an important step for the Company as it creates a substantial business in Norway with the technical and financial strength to build further.
The Ener transaction adds further to the Groups production and reserves and most importantly accelerates a portfolio of attractive business opportunities in Norway.
The Group also now has in place an excellent technical team in Norway which is focused on delivering further growth.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 101
