COmpaNy REpORT Of THE auDiTORS We report to you our opinion as to whether of the significant estimates and judgments iNDEpENDENt AuDitors the parent Company financial statements give made by the Directors in the preparation rEport to tHE MEMBErs a true and fair view and whether the parent of the parent Company financial statements, of DANA pEtroLEuM pLc Company financial statements and the part and of whether the accounting policies We have audited the parent Company of the Report on Directors Remuneration to are appropriate to the Companys financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc be audited have been properly prepared in circumstances, consistently applied and for the year ended 31 December 2007 which accordance with the Companies Act 1985. adequately disclosed.
comprise the Balance Sheet and the related We also report to you whether in our opinion notes 36 to 51.
These parent Company We planned and performed our audit so as to the information given in the parent Company financial statements have been prepared obtain all the information and explanations Report of the Directors is consistent with under the accounting policies set out therein.
which we considered necessary in order the financial statements.
The information We have also audited the information in the to provide us with sufficient evidence to given in the Report of the Directors includes Report on Directors Remuneration that is give reasonable assurance that the parent that specific information presented in the described as having been audited.
Company financial statements and the part of Business Review and Financial Review that is the Report on Directors Remuneration to be We have reported separately on the Group cross referred from the Business Review and audited are free from material misstatement, financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc Future Activities section of the Report of the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity for the year ended 31 December 2007.
In forming our opinion we also This report is made solely to the Companys In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, evaluated the overall adequacy of the members, as a body, in accordance with the Company has not kept proper accounting presentation of information in the parent Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. records, if we have not received all the Company financial statements and the part Our audit work has been undertaken so that information and explanations we require for of the Report on Directors Remuneration to we might state to the Companys members our audit, or if information specified by law be audited.
those matters we are required to state to regarding Directors remuneration and other them in an auditors report and for no other transactions is not disclosed.
To the fullest extent permitted In our opinion: We read other information contained in the by law, we do not accept or assume Annual Report and consider whether it is the parent Company financial statements responsibility to anyone other than the consistent with the audited parent Company give a true and fair view, in accordance Company and the Companys members as a financial statements.
The other information with United Kingdom Generally body, for our audit work, for this report, or for comprises only the Report of the Directors, Accepted Accounting Practice, of the the opinions we have formed.
the unaudited part of the Report on Directors state of the Companys affairs as at Remuneration, the Chairman and Chief 31 December 2007: rEspEctiVE Executives Review, the Business Review rEspoNsiBiLitiEs of the parent Company financial statements and the Financial Review.
We consider the DirEctors AND AuDitors and the part of the Report on Directors implications for our report if we become Remuneration to be audited have been The Directors responsibilities for preparing aware of any apparent misstatements or properly prepared in accordance with the the Annual Report, the Report on Directors material inconsistencies with the parent Companies Act 1985: and Remuneration and the parent Company Company financial statements.
Our financial statements in accordance with responsibilities do not extend to any other the information given in the Report of the applicable United Kingdom law and information.
Directors is consistent with the parent Accounting Standards United Kingdom Company financial statements.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice BAsis of AuDit opiNioN are set out in the Statement of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with Responsibilities.
Ernst & Young LLP International Standards on Auditing UK Registered auditor and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Our responsibility is to audit the parent Board.
An audit includes examination, on Company financial statements and the part Aberdeen a test basis, of evidence relevant to the of the Report on Directors Remuneration to 6 June 2008 amounts and disclosures in the parent be audited in accordance with relevant legal Company financial statements and the and regulatory requirements and International part of the Report on Directors Remuneration Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
It also includes an assessment 96 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007
