NOTES TO THE GROup fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES through unincorporated joint ventures and 1.
AutHorisAtioN of production sharing contracts together Joint fiNANciAL stAtEMENts AND The Groups accounting policies make use of Ventures.
The Group accounts for its share stAtEMENt of coMpLiANcE estimates and judgements in the following of the results and net assets of these Joint areas: Goodwill, Impairment, Depreciation, WitH ifrs Ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In Decommissioning, Derivative Financial The Groups financial statements of Dana addition, where Dana acts as operator to Instruments and Share-based Payments.
Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 the Joint Venture, the gross liabilities and These are described in more detail in the December 2007 were authorised for issue receivables including amounts due to or from relevant accounting policy.
by the Board of Directors on 6 June 2008 non-operating partners of the Joint Venture and the balance sheet was signed on the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and David Groups current Joint Venture interests are The consolidated financial statements include A MacFarlane.
Dana Petroleum plc is a public detailed on pages 106 and 107. the financial statements of the Company and limited company incorporated in England each of its subsidiary undertakings having and Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The REVENUE eliminated all inter-company transactions companys ordinary shares are traded on the Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of and balances.
VAT and overriding royalties, in respect of Acquisitions liftings sold.
Due to the fact that the Group The Groups financial statements have been follows the entitlement basis, adjustments prepared in accordance with International Business combinations are dealt with on the in respect of overlift liftings greater than Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as basis of the purchase method of accounting.
production entitlement and underlift adopted by the EU as they apply to the The cost of an acquisition is measured production entitlement greater than liftings financial statements of the Group for the as the fair value of the assets acquired are recorded in against cost of sales at year ended 31 December 2007.
The Groups or assets given up in the case of swap market value.
Where appropriate entitlement financial statements are also consistent transactions, equity instruments issued revenue also includes an allowance for gross with IFRS as issued by the International and liabilities incurred or assumed at the up for tax paid on the Companys behalf by Accounting Standards Board.
The principal date of completion of the acquisition, plus host governments.
accounting policies adopted by the Group are costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities Interest income is recognised on an accruals and contingent liabilities assumed in a basis and is disclosed separately on the face 2.
AccouNtiNg poLiciEs business combination are measured initially of the income statement.
at their fair values at the acquisition date for tHE group fiNANciAL irrespective of the extent of any minority FOREIGN CURRENCIES stAtEMENts interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition The following accounting policies are applied The functional currency for material over the fair value of the Groups share of the consistently in dealing with items which are subsidiaries is either Pounds Sterling, identifiable net assets acquired is recorded Norwegian Kroner or US Dollar.
considered material in relation to the Groups as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is financial statements.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the less than the fair value of the Groups share year are recorded in the functional currency of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, BASIS OF ACCOUNTING at the rate of exchange ruling at the date the difference is recognised directly in the The financial information has been prepared of the transaction.
Monetary assets and income statement.
using accounting policies consistent with liabilities denominated in foreign currencies IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations adopted The results of subsidiaries acquired or are translated into the functional currency at by the European Union and those parts disposed of are included excluded in the the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to consolidated income statement from the date companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial Exchange differences resulting from the on which control legally passes.
statements have been prepared under the translation of assets and liabilities of Joint Ventures historical cost convention, except for certain foreign currency denominated subsidiaries fair value adjustments required by those The Group is engaged in oil and gas into pounds sterling at year-end rates of accounting policies.
exploration, development and production exchange, together with those differences 62 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007
