NOTES TO THE GROup fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES through unincorporated joint ventures and 1.
AutHorisAtioN of production sharing contracts together Joint fiNANciAL stAtEMENts AND The Groups accounting policies make use of Ventures.
The Group accounts for its share stAtEMENt of coMpLiANcE estimates and judgements in the following of the results and net assets of these Joint areas: Goodwill, Impairment, Depreciation, WitH ifrs Ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In Decommissioning, Derivative Financial The Groups financial statements of Dana addition, where Dana acts as operator to Instruments and Share-based Payments.
Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 the Joint Venture, the gross liabilities and These are described in more detail in the December 2007 were authorised for issue receivables including amounts due to or from relevant accounting policy.
by the Board of Directors on 6 June 2008 non-operating partners of the Joint Venture and the balance sheet was signed on the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and David Groups current Joint Venture interests are The consolidated financial statements include A MacFarlane.
Dana Petroleum plc is a public detailed on pages 106 and 107. the financial statements of the Company and limited company incorporated in England each of its subsidiary undertakings having and Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The REVENUE eliminated all inter-company transactions companys ordinary shares are traded on the Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of and balances.
VAT and overriding royalties, in respect of Acquisitions liftings sold.
Due to the fact that the Group The Groups financial statements have been follows the entitlement basis, adjustments prepared in accordance with International Business combinations are dealt with on the in respect of overlift liftings greater than Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as basis of the purchase method of accounting.
production entitlement and underlift adopted by the EU as they apply to the The cost of an acquisition is measured production entitlement greater than liftings financial statements of the Group for the as the fair value of the assets acquired are recorded in against cost of sales at year ended 31 December 2007.
The Groups or assets given up in the case of swap market value.
Where appropriate entitlement financial statements are also consistent transactions, equity instruments issued revenue also includes an allowance for gross with IFRS as issued by the International and liabilities incurred or assumed at the up for tax paid on the Companys behalf by Accounting Standards Board.
The principal date of completion of the acquisition, plus host governments.
accounting policies adopted by the Group are costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities Interest income is recognised on an accruals and contingent liabilities assumed in a basis and is disclosed separately on the face 2.
AccouNtiNg poLiciEs business combination are measured initially of the income statement.
at their fair values at the acquisition date for tHE group fiNANciAL irrespective of the extent of any minority FOREIGN CURRENCIES stAtEMENts interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition The following accounting policies are applied The functional currency for material over the fair value of the Groups share of the consistently in dealing with items which are subsidiaries is either Pounds Sterling, identifiable net assets acquired is recorded Norwegian Kroner or US Dollar.
considered material in relation to the Groups as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is financial statements.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the less than the fair value of the Groups share year are recorded in the functional currency of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, BASIS OF ACCOUNTING at the rate of exchange ruling at the date the difference is recognised directly in the The financial information has been prepared of the transaction.
Monetary assets and income statement.
using accounting policies consistent with liabilities denominated in foreign currencies IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations adopted The results of subsidiaries acquired or are translated into the functional currency at by the European Union and those parts disposed of are included excluded in the the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to consolidated income statement from the date companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial Exchange differences resulting from the on which control legally passes.
statements have been prepared under the translation of assets and liabilities of Joint Ventures historical cost convention, except for certain foreign currency denominated subsidiaries fair value adjustments required by those The Group is engaged in oil and gas into pounds sterling at year-end rates of accounting policies.
exploration, development and production exchange, together with those differences 62 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 resulting from the restatement of profits and Impairment Impairment losses from average to year-end rates, are If and when facts and circumstances indicate A review is performed for any indication that taken directly to the cumulative translation the value of the Groups D&P assets may that the carrying value of an E&E asset may reserve.
All other exchange differences are be impaired.
exceed its recoverable amount an impairment taken to the income statement.
For D&P assets when there are such Transactions denominated in local currencies indications, an impairment test is carried For E&E assets when there are such are re-measured into the functional currency out on the CGU.
Each CGU is identified indications, an impairment test is carried at the rate ruling on the date that they arose.
Danas CGUs out by grouping the E&E assets with the are those assets which generate largely development & production assets belonging OIL AND GAS EXPENDITURE independent cash flows and are normally, to the same geographic segment to form the The Group accounts for oil and gas but not always, single development or Cash Generating Unit CGU for impairment expenditure as follows: production areas.
The equivalent combined carrying depletion is charged through the income Intangible Assets Exploration value of the CGU is compared against the statement if the capitalised costs of the and Evaluation Assets CGUs recoverable amount and any resulting CGU exceed the associated estimated impairment loss is written off to the income future discounted cash flows of the related Capitalisation statement.
The recoverable amount of the commercial oil and gas reserves.
Certain costs other than payments to acquire CGU is determined as the higher of its fair the legal right to explore incurred prior to Asset Purchases and Disposals value less costs to sell and its value in use.
acquiring the rights to explore are charged When a commercial transaction involves directly to the income statement.
All costs Property, Plant and Equipment the purchase of a D&P asset in exchange incurred after the rights to explore an area Development and Production Assets for an E&E asset, the transaction is have been obtained, such as geological and accounted for at fair value with the difference Capitalisation geophysical costs and other direct costs of between fair value and cost being taken to exploration drilling, trenching, sampling and Development and production D&P assets the income statement.
technical feasibility and commercial viability are accumulated into single field cost centres When a commercial transaction involves activities and appraisal are accumulated and represent the cost of developing the the exchange of E&E assets of similar size and capitalised as intangible exploration and commercial reserves and bringing them and characteristics, no fair value calculation evaluation E&E assets.
into production together with the E&E is performed.
The capitalised costs of the E&E costs are not amortised prior to the expenditures incurred in finding commercial asset being sold are transferred to the asset conclusion of appraisal activities.
At reserves previously transferred from E&E being acquired.
However, where the size and completion of appraisal activities if technical assets as outlined in the policy above.
characteristics of the E&E assets significantly feasibility is demonstrated and commercial differ, the transaction is accounted for at Depreciation reserves are discovered, then, following fair value with the difference between fair Costs relating to each single field cost centre development sanction, the carrying value of value and cost being taken to the income are depleted on a unit of production method the relevant E&E asset will be reclassified statement.
as a development and production asset, based on the commercial proven and probable Proceeds from the entire disposal of an E&E but only after the carrying value of the reserves for that cost centre.
Development asset are deducted from the capitalised costs relevant E&E asset has been assessed for assets are not depreciated until production of the asset with any surplus deficit taken impairment, and where appropriate, its commences.
The amortisation calculation to the income statement as a gain or loss on carrying value adjusted.
If after completion takes account of the estimated future costs sale.
Proceeds from a part disposal of an E&E of appraisal activities in an area, it is not of development of recognised proven and asset are deducted from the capitalised cost possible to determine technical feasibility probable reserves, based on current price of the asset with any surplus taken to the and commercial viability or if the legal right levels.
Changes in reserve quantities and cost income statement as a gain on sale.
to explore expires or if the Company decides estimates are recognised prospectively from not to continue exploration and evaluation Proceeds from the entire disposal of a D&P the last reporting date.
activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful asset, or any part thereof, are taken to the Currently there are no significant items of exploration and evaluation is written off income statement together with the requisite property, plant and equipment deemed to to the income statement in the period the proportional net book value of the asset, or relevant events occur.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 63 NOTES TO THE GROup fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS continued GOODWILL FINANCE COSTS AND DEBT TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Goodwill arising on consolidation, Finance costs which are directly attributable Trade receivables are recognised and carried representing the excess of the cost of to the construction of D&P assets are at the original invoiced amount.
Other acquisition over the fair value of the Groups capitalised as part of the cost of those receivables, excluding underlifted amounts, share of the identifiable assets, liabilities assets.
The commencement of capitalisation are measured at nominal value.
Underlifted and contingent liabilities acquired, is begins when both finance costs and amounts are measured at market value in capitalised in the balance sheet.
Following expenditures in respect of the asset are accordance with industry practice.
initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost incurred and activities that are necessary TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES less any accumulated impairment losses.
to develop an asset are in progress.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually Capitalisation ceases when the development Trade and other payables, excluding overlifted or more frequently if events or changes in is substantially complete.
amounts, are measured at cost.
Overlifted circumstances indicate the carrying value amounts are measured at market value in Finance costs of debt are allocated to may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to accordance with industry practice.
periods over the term of the related debt the appropriate cash-generating unit for the at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
CONVERTIBLE BONDS Arrangement fees and issue costs are The net proceeds received from the issue amortised and charged to the income DECOMMISSIONING of convertible bonds are split between a statement as finance costs over the term of The Group recognises the full discounted liability element and an equity component the debt.
cost of decommissioning when the obligation at the date of issue.
The fair value of the to rectify environmental damage arises, liability component is estimated using the AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL principally on development sanction.
The prevailing market interest rate for similar ASSETS amount recognised is the present value of non-convertible debt.
The difference between The Group determines the classification of its the estimated future expenditure determined the proceeds of issue of the convertible available-for-sale financial assets at initial in accordance with local conditions and bonds and the fair value assigned to the recognition and re-evaluates this designation requirements.
A corresponding D&P asset of liability component, representing the at each financial year end.
When availablean amount equivalent to the provision is also embedded option to convert the liability into for-sale financial assets are recognised created.
This is subsequently depreciated equity of the Group, is included in equity and initially, they are measured at fair value, as part of the capital costs of the D&P is not remeasured.
The liability component is being the transaction price plus directly asset.
Any change in the present value of carried at amortised cost.
the estimated expenditure is reflected as Issue costs are apportioned between the After initial recognition available-for-sale an adjustment to the provision and the D&P liability and equity components of the financial assets are measured at fair value asset.
The unwinding of the discount on the convertible bonds based on their relative with gains or losses being recognised as decommissioning provision is included as a carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The a separate component of equity until the finance cost.
portion relating to the equity component is investment is derecognised or until the charged directly against equity.
investment is determined to be impaired PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT at which time the cumulative gain or loss OTHER THAN D&P ASSETS The interest expense on the liability previously reported in equity is included in component is calculated by applying the Property, plant and equipment other than D&P the income statement.
prevailing market interest rate for similar nonassets are stated in the balance sheet at cost convertible debt to the liability component of less accumulated depreciation.
The difference between this is provided at rates calculated to write off amount and the interest paid is added to the the cost less estimated residual value of each Inventories comprise materials and carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
asset on a straight-line basis at the following equipment, which are stated at the lower annual rates: of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing the Equipment 10% 25% materials and equipment to its present Computer equipment 33% condition and location.
64 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 SHARE ISSUE EXPENSES AND SHARE Petroleum Revenue Tax and Net Profit OPERATING LEASES PREMIUM ACCOUNT Interest Tax Rentals under operating leases are charged Costs of share issues are written off UK Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT and to the income statement on a straight line against the premium arising on the issue Norwegian Net Profit Interest NPI tax basis over the period of the lease.
are treated as income taxes and deferred MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE PRT and deferred NPI tax is calculated and TAXATION provided for.
Current UK PRT and Norwegian Expenditure on major maintenance, refits NPI tax are charged as tax expenses on or repairs is capitalised where it enhances Current Tax the chargeable field profits included in the the life or performance of an asset above its Current tax is recognised as a liability to income statement and are deductible for UK originally assessed standard of performance: the extent unpaid or if the amount paid and Norwegian corporation tax respectively.
replaces an asset or part of an asset which exceeds the amount due it is recognised as was separately depreciated and which is then an asset.
Current tax assets and liabilities are PENSIONS written off, or restores the economic benefits measured at the amount expected to be paid The Group contributes to the personal of an asset which has been fully depreciated.
recovered from the taxation authorities, pension arrangements of Executive Directors All other maintenance expenditure is charged using tax rates and laws that have been and employees up to a specified percentage to the income statement as incurred.
enacted or substantively enacted by the of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Deferred Tax Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other Deferred income tax is recognised on DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS short-term highly liquid investments with temporary differences arising between AND HEDGING original maturities of three months or less, the tax base of assets and liabilities and The Group uses derivative financial and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are their carrying amounts in the Group instruments to manage its exposure to shown within borrowings in current liabilities financial statements.
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, on the balance sheet.
Deferred income tax is not accounted for if interest rates and movements in oil and it arises from the initial recognition of an gas prices.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS asset or liability in a transaction other than a The Group has applied the requirements of Derivatives are initially recognised at fair business combination, that at the time of the IFRS 2 Share Based Payment to all grants of value on the date a derivative contract is transaction affects neither, accounting nor equity instruments after 7 November 2002 entered into and are remeasured at their fair taxable profit or loss.
that had not vested as of 1 January 2005. value at each subsequent reporting date.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax The Group issues both equity-settled and Derivatives embedded in other financial rates and laws that have been enacted or cash-settled share based payments as an instruments or non-derivative host contracts substantially enacted by the reporting date.
incentive to certain key management and are treated as separate derivatives when Deferred income tax assets are recognised staff.
Equity-settled share based payments their risks and characteristics are not closely to the extent that it is probable that future are measured at fair value at the date of related to those host contracts and the host income tax profit will be available against grant.
The fair value determined at the contracts are not carried at fair value with which the temporary differences can grant date of the equity-settled share based unrealised gains or losses reported in the be utilised.
payments is expensed on a straight-line basis income statement.
over the vesting period, based on the Groups Deferred income tax is provided on temporary Fair value estimation of financial instruments estimate of the number of shares that will differences arising on investments in traded in active markets such as availableeventually vest.
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, for-sale securities is based on quoted market except where the timing of the reversal of Fair value is measured by use of an actuarial prices at the reporting date.
The fair value the temporary difference is controlled by binomial model.
The expected life used of foreign exchange contracts is determined the Group and it is probable that the in the model has been adjusted, based on using forward exchange market rates at temporary difference will not reverse in the managements best estimate, for the effects the balance sheet date.
of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, instruments are valued using standard pricing and behavioural considerations.
models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 65 NOTES TO THE GROup fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS continued For cash-settled share based payments, a liability is recognised based on the current fair value determined at each reporting date and that portion of the employees services to which the payment relates that has been received by the reporting date.
IMPACT OF NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS Adopted for 2007 In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see note 25.
No other IFRS IFRIC effective during the year have impacted on the results or disclosures of the Group.
Not yet adopted International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Accounting Periods Commencing After IFRS 2 Amendment Share Based Payment vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 July 2009 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 1 January 2009 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 The Directors do not anticipate that Assets and liabilities arising from business or loss recognised in the profit and loss.
The the adoption of these standards and combinations before the date of adoption by amendment has not yet been adopted by the interpretations will have a material impact the Group will not be restated and thus there EU hence the Group has not yet completed on the Groups financial statements when will be no effect on the Groups reported its evaluation of the effect of adopting these adopted or recognised from the accounting income or net assets on adoption.
Upon adoption of IAS 1 Revised Upon adoption of IAS 32 Financial An amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Presentation of Financial Statements, Instruments: Presentation, the Group will be Payment vesting conditions and separate presentation of owner and nonrequired to classify as equity certain financial cancellations was issued in January 2008, owner changes in equity will be required instruments provided certain criteria are met.
clarifying that only service conditions through the introduction of the statement of The instruments to be classified as equity and performance conditions are vesting comprehensive income.
Whenever there is a are puttable financial instruments and those conditions, and other features of a sharerestatement or reclassification, an additional instruments that impose an obligation on the based payment are not vesting conditions.
In balance sheet, as at the beginning of the entity to deliver to another party a pro rata addition, it specifies that all cancellations, earliest period presented, will be required.
share of the net assets of the entity only on whether by the entity or by other parties, The adoption of the revised standard will not liquidation.
The amendment has not yet been should receive the same accounting impact on the Groups reported income or net adopted by the EU hence the Group has not treatment.
The amendment has not yet been assets.
yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adopted by the EU hence the Group has not adopting these amendments.
An amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and yet completed its evaluation of the effect of Separate Financial Statements was issued in Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will have adopting these amendments.
This requires the effects of all to disclose information to enable users of its Upon adoption of the revised version of transactions with non-controlling interests financial statements to evaluate the nature IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group to be recorded in equity if there is no change and financial effects of the different business will be required to continue applying the in control.
Such transactions will no longer activities in which it engages and the purchase method of accounting to business result in goodwill gains or losses.
When economic environment in which it operates.
combinations, but the standard will introduce control is lost, any remaining interest in the For the Groups current business activities, the some changes to the existing treatment.
entity is remeasured to fair value and a gain identification, aggregation and measurement 66 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007
