24. fiNANciAL iNstruMENts An outline of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the Group in relation to financial instruments is set out in the Financial Review on page 32 of this report, and in note 2 on pages 64 and 65.
Nature and extent of risk associated with financial instruments Market Risk As an upstream oil & gas company, the Company is subject to many risks, at both the macro and micro level, including currency, interest and credit risk, arising in the normal course of the Groups business.
The Business Review on page 20 describes these risks in more detail, but also provides the Companys view of the principal risks facing the Company that potentially have a medium to high impact on the Company.
There are no particular risks associated with financial instruments included in the Business Review analysis.
This is indicative of a Company with a geographically diverse portfolio of assets and a Company which has been unhedged over recent years with respect to commodity price, interest rates and currency fluctuations.
Financial instrument risks are therefore deemed to be of low probability in nature and of low impact in quantum.
It is against this backdrop and context that the following disclosure on the nature and extent of risks from financial instruments should be read.
Financial assets and liabilities: Credit risk The financial assets of the Group are subject to floating charges provided to the debt provider for the new debt facility secured during 2007 see note 20b.
As such the financial assets are subject to certain terms and conditions further explained below which help preserve the credit worthiness of the asset to the debt providers.
Cash and cash equivalents Unless agreed otherwise, all such balances must be maintained with institutions party to the debt facility.
The Group may however, make money market deposits for up to six months duration and up to 80 million, with any institution whose senior unsecured credit and unguaranteed long term corporate debt rating is at least equivalent to Standard and Poors AA-.
Available-for-sale financial assets Faroe Petroleum plc is a publicly quoted upstream oil and gas company listed on the London AIM market.
This is a liquid market where fluctuations in market value are easily observed and monitored on a daily basis.
The Company is the largest shareholder in Faroe Petroleum plc with 17.11% held at the 2007 year end and a current shareholding at 27.5%.
The Group retains the option to exercise those statutory rights to protect the underlying investment value.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk in trade receivables is minimal.
The Group does not have a trading arm, but sells produced hydrocarbons only to recognised and creditworthy parties, typically the trading arm of large, international oil & gas companies.
European crudes sales are primarily sold under an annual contract at agreed premia or discounts to Brent, depending upon crude quality.
Sales are typically generated on a monthly entitlement basis rather than crude liftings to facilitate regular cashflow.
Sales of gas from the Groups older UK gas fields are sold under long-term contracts with built-in escalation mechanisms.
Gas production from the newly developed Cavendish field in the UK is also sold under an annual contract at day ahead pricing.
European credit terms normally require settlement within 15 days of invoicing and accordingly impairment exposure is minimal, a fact supported by track record.
As a result of the acquisition of crude production in Egypt, the ageing profile of trade and other receivables will be extended.
Egyptian crude is sold predominantly to government organisations but also to large international trading companies.
Country practice is for much extended credit terms of up to 120 days, but particularly with the government organisations there is also an established practice of offsetting liabilities due to the counterparty, which facilitates the management of such receivables.
Management of this extended credit exposure is one of the key objectives of the Egyptian business unit management team.
Also in Egypt, the Groups operations in the East Zeit field, provides infrastucture access and logistics support services to third parties operating in the same locale.
These other receivables occasionally prove problematic to collect and require active pursuit by management.
Past practice would indicate that any impairment exposure is not material in the context of the Egyptian business.
Ageing analysis of trade receivables is disclosed in note 16 a. Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 81 NOTES TO THE GROup fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS continued 24. fiNANciAL iNstruMENts continued Trade and other payables The robust prevailing economic conditions in the industry, generally means there is minimal credit risk with suppliers.
As the Group's interests are predominantly non-operated in nature, payments to suppliers occur only after goods and or services have been received.
For operated activity, material or long-term contracts will generally only be awarded after a tender process, where supplier creditworthiness will be evaluated.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets and liabilities is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date as set out in the summary table below.
Financial assets and liabilities: Liquidity risk Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2007, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of 115,960,000 2006: 109,878,000.
Borrowings and financial liabilities During 2007, the Group secured both a new $400 million bank debt facility and issued a 7 year Guaranteed Convertible Bond.
Given the deterioration in the global credit markets over the latter half of 2007 and into 2008, the timing of these fund raisings has been optimal for the Group, and should provide sufficient liquidity for the Group until normality returns to the credit markets.
An analysis of the maturity profile of the Groups borrowing financial liabilities is shown in note 20a and details of the underlying facilities are detailed in note 20b and note 21.
The undiscounted cash flows associated with the maturity profile is noted in the table below.
The Group currently has sufficient cash and cash equivalents to repay in full the amount of the bank debt currently drawn and which matures in March 2009.
2007 2006 Amounts falling due 000 000 in one year or less or on demand 6,813 in more than one year but not more than two years 80,049 in more than two years but not more than five years 153,810 240,672 The Group has also recently received indicative terms for re-financing this facility for a further 3 years, despite the current credit concerns in the global economy.
Whilst pricing of such debt has undoubtedly increased somewhat compared to 12 months ago, this confirms the upstream industry continues to be a sector where banks are open for business.
This proposal remains under consideration but provides confidence that liquidity will not be an issue for the Group in the short-term particularly when viewed in light of the Groups future production growth and the strengthening commodity price environment.
The issue of the Guaranteed Convertible Bond has also provided the Group with a source of longer term finance, where the earliest maturity would be upon an investor put at the end of year 5 2012.
Financial assets and liabilities: Interest rate risk Details of the Groups interest rate risk profile on financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
The fixed rate and competitive nature of the Convertible Debt coupon of 2.9% per annum, provides excellent protection against the risk of changes in market interest rates and complements the variable interest rate applicable to the Bank debt.
USD LIBOR which underpins the Bank debt has also reduced significantly in the early part of 2008, and remains under downward pressure, as the US government seek to use interest rates to fight recessionary pressures.
Accordingly the Group is now enjoying an extremely low cost of finance and in 2007 covered net interest charge more than 30 times.
82 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 Financial assets Fixed rate financial Floating rate assets financial assets 1 year 1 year Total 000 000 000 2007 Cash and cash equivalents 83,329 32,631 115,960 2006 Cash and cash equivalents 50,014 59,864 109,878 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of asset on the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term deposits and liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
At 31 December 2007, short-term deposits and liquid investments were earning interest at a weighted average fixed deposit rate of 6.12% 2006: 5.51%.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on a discount to US$ GBP LIBOR.
Financial Liabilities Fixed rate Floating rate financial financial liabilities liabilities 1 year 1 year Total 000 000 000 2007 Bank loan 75,268 75,268 Convertible Bond 111,989 111,989 111,989 75,268 187,257 2006 Bank loan The fixed rate liability comprises the convertible bonds issued which bear an interest coupon of 2.9% per annum until the maturity of the bonds in 2014 or on the exercise of the investor put on the fifth anniversary of the issue date 2012.
The floating rate liabilities comprise the bank borrowings which bear interest based on US$ LIBOR plus 0.8%.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The Groups earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on its financial liabilities.
If the interest rates for the year were to have increased by 1% in 2007, with all other variables held constant, it is estimated that the Groups profit before tax for 2007 would have decreased by 1,300,000 2006: Nil.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 83 NOTES TO THE GROup fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS continued 24. fiNANciAL iNstruMENts continued Financial assets and liabilities: Currency risk The predominant functional currency within the Group is sterling but due to the Groups USD denominated oil production, the Group does remain exposed to fluctuations in the USD currency, the primary area of currency risk.
Such exposures can be hedged against using financial instruments but the Group takes the view that this would be inconsistent with the Groups unhegded position on commodity price, given that there is a wellestablished inverse correlation between movements in the price of oil and movements in the USD.
Whilst this approach may give rise to currency exchange gains and losses, these are in effect largely offset by corresponding gains and losses in the value of crude oil sales.
The companies acquired in Egypt during the year see note 29b, are USD reporting entities given that this is the main currency of the underlying operations, with only a relatively minor exposure to Egyptian pounds.
This creates exposure to currency translation risks which is mitigated by the USD bank debt drawn by the UK subsidiary acquiring these entities.
Once again this may give rise to currency gains and losses, but these will be offset by corresponding gains and losses in the underlying financial results of the Egyptian subsidiaries.
Dana Petroleum Norway AS has a functional currency of NOK, the predominant source currency of the Companys cost base.
Revenues, being generated from crude sales are however, USD denominated.
In cash terms the Group is short GBP and NOK, and long USD.
The Group is however, able to make deposits of USD, on a dual or tri-currency basis, where in return for pre-agreed exchange rates, and interest yields significantly ahead of vanilla USD deposit rates, the Group grants the counterparty the right to return the original deposit, in the nominated currency of their choice, namely USD, GBP or NOK.
Using this mechanism the Group has been able to achieve deposit yields up to 11.15%, compared to a yield of 3% on vanilla USD deposits.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and Groups equity.
Effect on Increase profit before Effect on decrease in tax equity US Dollar rate 000 000 2007 or - 5% 1,655 1,655 2006 or - 5% 168 168 84 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 Details of the Groups current exposure to USD in its financial assets and liabilities, is set out in the summary table below.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities: Summary Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 85
