Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 21 Other payables 2007 2006 restated m m Obligations under finance leases 2.0 1.9 Accruals 32.8 28.3 Deferred income 205.0 198.2 Other payables 19.5 16.6 Total other payables 259.3 245.0 22 Derivative financial instruments Treasury policy Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
It uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of Boardapproved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive monthly reports of the activities of Group treasury.
The main elements of treasury activity to manage relevant financial risks are outlined below: Currency risk The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Groups sterling transaction costs, and the translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the euro.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net borrowings held in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity are recognised in the income statement.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
Permission of Group treasury is required before a foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
Interest rate risk The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk on its primary credit facility and manages this exposure using interest rates swaps.
The treasury policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more than 70 per cent, of borrowings in the Group must be fixed.
Credit risk Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better.
Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
74 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07
