Notes to the Company financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial information set out on pages 102 to 107 comprises the financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2007 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
The financial statements of the Company are prepared under United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items as set out in the accounting policies below, and are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
New accounting policies a Amendments to published standards effective in 2006 The Accounting Standards Board ASB issued an amendment to FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement in October 2005.
The amendment has the effect of implementing FRS 26 amendments that affect cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions, the fair value option and financial guarantee contracts and credit insurance.
The application of these amendments had no material effect on the financial statements of the Company.
The ASB issued on amendment to FRS 23, Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, in December 2005.
This achieves convergence between FRS 23 and IAS 21.
This amendment is effective from accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Management have considered this amendment and have determined that it will have minimal impact on the Company.
b Amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The Accounting Standards Board ASB has issued an amendment to FRS 17, Retirement benefits, which replaces the disclosures required by FRS 17 with those of IAS 19, Employee benefits, its international equivalent.
This achieves convergence between FRS 17 and IAS 19 in relation to pensions disclosures.
The ASB has also amended paragraph 16 of FRS 17, so that for quoted securities, the current bid price rather than the mid-market value is taken as fair value.
This is a further alignment with IAS 19 and is effective from accounting periods beginning on or after 6 April 2007.
The ASB has issued an amendment to FRS 26, Financial instruments: Measurement Recognition and derecognition.
This implements the recognition and derecognition material in IAS 39.
The requirements of FRS 5, Reporting the substance of transactions, are superseded for transactions that fall within IAS 39s scope, but FRS 5 continues to apply to transactions in non-financial assets and liabilities.
This amendment is effective from accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The ASB has issued FRS 29, Financial instruments: Disclosures, which largely replicates the requirements of IFRS 7 and locates in one place all of the disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The standard supersedes FRS 13 and also the disclosure requirements of FRS 25.
The amendment is applicable to entities applying FRS 26 in accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Investments In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost adjusted for capital contributions relating to share based payments.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is charged to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset to the Company.
Tangible fixed assets comprise fixtures, fittings and equipment.
These are depreciated over their estimated useful economic life of five years on a straight-line basis.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 103 Notes to the Company financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Employee share schemes The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the employees related performance.
Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The cost of awards is measured as the fair value of the award at grant date less employee contributions.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Company are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.
Assets capitalised as tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Payments under such leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the profit and loss account over the full period of the finance lease on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term or period to break clause.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
Retirement benefits In accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for its contributions to the Comet Pension Scheme on a defined contribution scheme basis.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cover the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and cannot be split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis.
The Company has therefore taken advantage of the multi-employer exemption allowed by paragraph 9 b of FRS 17.
The pension rights of the Company are dealt with through a self-administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Companys finances.
The scheme is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professional qualified actuaries.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Company obtained the following services from the Companys auditor at costs as detailed below: Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2007 2006 restated m m Audit fees: Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements 0.3 0.4 Fees for other services: Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.3 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor 0.5 0.7 104 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07
