Shareholder information Registrar and Transfer Office Share dealing service All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to the We are offering an internet and telephone share dealing services for Companys Registrar, as follows: shareholders in certain jurisdictions in conjunction with Computershare, our Registrars.
By Mail: Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 Internet dealing: The Pavilions Commission is 0.5 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of Bridgwater Road 15.00.
Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
Bristol BS99 7NH Up to 90 day limit orders available on shares.
Service is available to place orders out of market hours.
co. uk Telephone dealing: Commission is 1 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of 15.00.
Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Kesa Electricals plc Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you whilst you Dividend mandates are still on the telephone.
If you wish Dividends to be paid directly into your Bank Account through Service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS, you should contact excluding bank holidays.
the Registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form.
Electronic shareholder communications No forms will need to be completed in advance and the settlement We have entered into an arrangement with our Registrars whereby period is 10 business days after your trade has been dealt in the market, shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder communications for both internet and telephone share dealing.
Further information and from the Company electronically, rather than in paper format via the copies of the terms and conditions of both these services can be postal system.
We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our electronic Gifting shares to your family or to charity communications service through the eShareholderTM campaign being To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask run by ComputersharePepper.
When you register for electronic the Registrars for a Gift Transfer Form.
If you only have a small number communications, we will dedicate a tree on your behalf in a UK area of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish selected for reforestation.
This service enables you to save paper, to consider donating them to ShareGift, the share donation charity contribute to a better environment and reduce harmful carbon dioxide registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant share transfer form emissions which impact climate change.
may be obtained from the Registrars.
Further information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift Internet Site www.
In order to receive shareholder communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and annual report and accounts electronically rather than by post, you should register your details via the Investor Centre information and services page of the Kesa Electricals plc website www.
108 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 Designed and produced by 85four Principal photography by Bob Wheeler Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press, environmentally accredited printers, ISO 14001 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 Kesa Electricals plc Registered address 22 24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE 44 0 20 7269 1400 Registered in England Company number: 04232413 For information visit www.
