Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial information set out on pages 40 to 100 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2007 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and of certain other items, as explained in the accounting policies below.
Effect of new standards, amendments and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective in 2006 IAS 39 Amendment, The Fair Value Option effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
This amendment changes the definition of financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate financial instruments as part of this category.
This amendment had no impact on the Groups financial statements as it held no financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
IFRIC 6 clarifies when certain producers of electrical goods are required to recognise a liability under IAS 37 for the cost of waste management relating to the decommissioning of waste electrical and electronic equipment supplied to private households.
The WEEE Directive was introduced in France in November 2006 and has not been introduced in the UK.
For those territories in which the directive has been implemented, the Groups policy is to recognise any amounts charged to customers within revenue and the related costs incurred within cost of sales.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2006 with minimal or no impact on the Group IAS 21 Amendment, Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IAS 39 Amendment, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial Guarantee Contracts IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 6 Amendment, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
IFRIC 10 prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill, investments in equity instruments and investments in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 February 2007.
IFRIC 11, Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
This IFRIC interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
This IFRIC interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the Amendment to IAS 1 from 1 February 2007.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this standard.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
IFRIC 8 requires consideration of transactions involving the issuance of equity instruments where the identifiable consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued to establish whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
The Group will apply IFRIC 8 from 1 February 2007. d Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and are not anticipated to be relevant for the Groups operations IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective from 1 March 2006 IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 45 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Change in accounting policy The Company has taken note of the conclusions reached by the IFRIC in its July 2006 meeting, and has amended its accounting policy concerning put options held by minorities and now recognises a liability for these in its balance sheet.
The liability represents the Groups best estimate of the amount that would be paid for the minorities shares in the event that the put were exercised.
The impact of this change in accounting policy has been to reduce previously reported net assets at 1 February 2005 and 31 January 2006 by 19.1m and 24.4m respectively.
There was no impact on the prior year profit.
The effect on the 31 January 2006 Financial Statements is set out below: Group statement of recognised income and expense m m Total recognised income for year ended 31 January 2006 as published 89.7 Adjustments Exchange losses recognised directly in equity 0.3 Impact of put options entered into during the year 5.6 Revision to adjustments made for first time adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 19.1 24.4 Total recognised income for year ended 31 January 2006 restated 65.3 Group balance sheet m m Net assets at 31 January 2006 as published 330.2 Adjustments Deferred income tax assets 0.6 Trade and other payables 20.1 Derivative financial instruments assets 1.0 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1.9 Other payables 6.3 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.3 24.4 Net assets at 31 January 2006 restated 305.8 Use of adjusted measures The Company believes that retail profit representing total operating profit before the demerger award plan charge, profits losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and the share of joint ventures and associates interest and taxation and adjusted earnings per share provides additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders.
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements by employees.
The term retail profit is not defined by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies in dealing with items considered material in relation to the accounts are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented.
46 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 1 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint venture and associated undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired are recorded under the acquisition method and their results are included from the date of acquisition.
Associated undertakings and joint venture are accounted for using the equity method.
The results of subsidiary undertakings, joint venture and associated undertakings that have been disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
All significant consolidated companies have a 31 January accounting year end.
Datart Investments S. A. the Groups subsidary in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, makes up its accounts to 31 December owing to local conditions and to avoid undue delay in the presentation of the Group accounts.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates and joint venture Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint venture are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint venture includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of postacquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint venture.
Accounting policies of associates and joint venture have been changed where possible to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups operations are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the operation operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 47 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued b Transaction and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets held for sale are included in fair value reserves in equity.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless the average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of transactions : and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity from the date of transition to IFRS.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders funds.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Segmental information Primary segmental information reflects the Groups management structure.
The Board of Directors considers that there is no secondary segment by which Kesa is managed.
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products and services, which is subject to risk and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
The principal activity of the Group is the retail of electrical goods and furniture, which is managed through the following business segments: Darty France BUT France Comet UK Others comprising business units of less than 10 per cent of the Groups overall business Reported segment results represent the retail profit of each segment.
Unallocated items comprise corporate head office expenses and Group funding costs.
Segment assets and liabilities represent the balance sheet carrying values held at the end of the year.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, trade and other receivables, inventories, prepayments and accrued income.
48 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 1 Accounting policies continued Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, accruals, deferred income and post employment benefit obligations.
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related assets, liabilities and provisions.
Unallocated assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate.
Only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the assets useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 1,000 or equivalent are these costs included in the carrying amount.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The Group selects its depreciation rates carefully and reviews them regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factor the Group takes into account is the length of time during which the assets are expected to be used within the business.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, and the depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows: Freehold buildings 20 years Long leasehold 20 years or remaining lease term if shorter Short leasehold over the remaining period of the lease Tenants fixtures and improvements between five and 20 years Computers and electronic equipment between two and four years Motor cars and commercial vehicles between two and five years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Estimated recoverable amounts are reviewed at least annually.
Gains and losses on disposals outside the Group are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment losses cannot be reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents a separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for managing the cash flow of that unit.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 49 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued b Other intangibles Trademarks and licences are shown at historic cost.
Trademarks and licences have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Other costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives of between two to six years.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life consist of payments made in advance in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises.
These are not amortised, but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
An indefinite useful life is deemed appropriate for these assets as their value does not diminish systematically over time and they can normally be re-sold.
Impairment Assets having an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable, or that the assets use may not generate an economic benefit greater than their carrying value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The discount rate is applied based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Financial instruments Investments The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss loans and receivables held-to-maturity investments available for sale financial assets The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or if so designated by management.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading, or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
50 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 1 Accounting policies continued b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group supplies money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
c Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
d Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The fair values of financial assets, including quoted investments, are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the investments specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Derivatives All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as cash flow hedges.
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement.
It is Group policy that we do not enter into derivatives that are not intended for the purpose of economic cash flow hedging.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 51 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a regular basis.
Should these derivatives fail the requirements of this test, they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly.
To the extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled.
To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group has strict treasury guidelines on derivatives and hedging policy.
The Group holds two types of derivative instrument as hedges to manage the financial risk profile of the Group and to limit the Groups economic exposure to non-functional currency and interest rate volatility: 1 Currency derivatives in the form of forward exchange contracts between US$ and functional currency are taken out to build a pool of forward contracts, which match the Groups future US$ currency liability on committed orders for the purchase of product.
2 Interest rate swaps converting a variable rate interest liability into a fixed rate liability covering a significant proportion of the Groups variable rate term borrowings.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of inventory includes the purchase price and transport costs to our warehouses and retail stores.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of products.
A provision for impairment of inventories is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover the cost of inventory when sold.
52 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 1 Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and in the event that a trade receivable is only recoverable more than 12 months after the balance sheet date then it is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flow, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in provision is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists.
Other bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Income tax Income tax on the profit and loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and adjustments to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 53 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Employee benefits a Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are supplemental to contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes.
Company-sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately outside the income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b Share-based compensation The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The total amount expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
c Other long-term employee benefits Some Group companies provide long-term employment benefits to employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
d Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
Restructuring provisions, comprising of lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
54 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: a Sales of goods retail Sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, which ever is the later.
Retail sales are usually in cash or by card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
b Sales of services Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
The Group sells extended warranty contracts.
Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of manufacturers warranty.
Where the Group sells an extended warranty contract and a third-party insurance company has responsibility for contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale.
Where part of the obligation under these contracts is reinsured by the Group, the revenue relating to the reinsurance is recognised over the period for which reinsurance is provided, excluding any period of manufacturers warranty.
c Royalty and franchise revenue Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements, and is included within other income.
Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group or any of its subsidiaries are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.
Assets capitalised as property, plant and equipment are amortised in accordance with Group depreciation policy.
Payments under such leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the income statement over the full period of the finance lease on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 55 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Contingent assets and liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities arise from conditions or situations, the outcome of which depends on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Events occurring after the balance sheet date The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant a modification of these values.
These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the accounts by the Board of Directors.
Other non-adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Financial risk management Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
The Board establishes the Groups financial policies and the Chief Executive Officer establishes objectives in line with these policies.
The Finance Directors Committee and the Treasury Committee, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director, are then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company Treasury teams.
Approved Treasury Management Guidelines define and classify risks and also determine, by category of transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk, settlement risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the aforementioned policies, the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated future transactions.
The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group accounts into sterling.
Interest rate risk comprises the interest price risk that results from borrowing at variable and fixed rates and the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios.
Credit risk is managed by investing liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Groups treasury management guidelines.
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions.
As a result of its strong cash flow, the Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loans agreements expire.
Affiliated companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally.
The Treasury Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Groups intragroup loans portfolio on a monthly basis.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
i Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1.
The recoverable amounts of Cash-Generating Units CGU have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow forecasts for each CGU and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
See note 10 for details of the key assumptions used and the impact of changes in these assumptions.
56 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 1 Accounting policies continued ii Pension benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and France.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
A half a percentage point decrease in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income statement charge in the year ended 31 January 2007 would have reduced profit before taxation by 1.9m and increased the net liability by 33.6m.
Key assumptions have also been made, by independent professional actuaries, regarding price inflation and annual salary increases.
These assumptions have been used to assess the contribution rate required to fund future benefits.
A half percentage point increase in the price inflation assumptions would have reduced profit before taxation by 3.0m and would have increased the net liability by 28.0m.
A half percentage point increase in the assumption regarding annual salary increases would have reduced profit before taxation by 1.2m and would have increased the net liability by 8.5m The mortality assumptions used for the UK scheme were reassessed in 2006 and the Group has used PA92 tables with mortality projected to 2005 for pensioners and to 2015 for non-pensioners.
For the French pension plans, the individuals entitlement on retirement is secured by the purchase of an annuity.
The terms of the annuity are set using insurance company tariff rates as imposed by legislation.
The Group has no further mortality risk post-retirement.
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater, the charge to profit before taxation would have increased by approximately 0.7m and the net post employment liability before tax would have increased by approximately 7.5m.
iii Taxation Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations on which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
iv Inventory valuations Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Average cost includes transportation costs to the point of sale and is net of any supplier discounts and rebates.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and damaged stocks.
Damaged stocks are identified through inventory counting procedures conducted within each business.
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories are made as part of their ongoing financial reporting.
Provisions reflect likely future sales and whether the item is no longer referenced by suppliers.
Calculation of provisions requires judgements to be made regarding projected consumer demand, the competitive environment and inventory loss trends.
As at 31 January 2007, the Group held allowances in respect of inventory of 17.2m 2006 17.5m.
Principal rates of exchange Euro Czech krown Average rate year ended 31 January 2007 1.4712 41.5569 Closing rate 31 January 2007 1.5081 40.7871 Average rate year ended 31 January 2006 1.4645 43.5553 Closing rate 31 January 2006 1.4638 42.3003 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 57
