Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing financial statements of the Group comply with the Companies Act 1985 the accounts.
and Article 4 of the IAS regulation and that the financial statements of the Company comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the and hence from taking reasonable steps for the prevention and auditors report set out on page 39, is made with a view to detection of fraud and other irregularities.
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 40 to 100, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be the company and the group and for the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: The maintenance and integrity of the Kesa Electricals website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
adopted by the European Union.
State that the Company financial statements comply with UK GAAP.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Kesa Electricals plc other jurisdictions.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
38 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07
