Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2007 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial information set out on pages 40 to 100 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2007 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and of certain other items, as explained in the accounting policies below.
Effect of new standards, amendments and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective in 2006 IAS 39 Amendment, The Fair Value Option effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
This amendment changes the definition of financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate financial instruments as part of this category.
This amendment had no impact on the Groups financial statements as it held no financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
IFRIC 6 clarifies when certain producers of electrical goods are required to recognise a liability under IAS 37 for the cost of waste management relating to the decommissioning of waste electrical and electronic equipment supplied to private households.
The WEEE Directive was introduced in France in November 2006 and has not been introduced in the UK.
For those territories in which the directive has been implemented, the Groups policy is to recognise any amounts charged to customers within revenue and the related costs incurred within cost of sales.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2006 with minimal or no impact on the Group IAS 21 Amendment, Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IAS 39 Amendment, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial Guarantee Contracts IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 6 Amendment, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
IFRIC 10 prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill, investments in equity instruments and investments in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 February 2007.
IFRIC 11, Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
This IFRIC interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
This IFRIC interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the Amendment to IAS 1 from 1 February 2007.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this standard.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
IFRIC 8 requires consideration of transactions involving the issuance of equity instruments where the identifiable consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued to establish whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
The Group will apply IFRIC 8 from 1 February 2007. d Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and are not anticipated to be relevant for the Groups operations IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective from 1 March 2006 IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 45
