88 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Accounting Policies Company Basis of Preparation Investments The fide La Rue plc entity financial statements have been Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the balance sheet, prepared under the historical cost convention as modified less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and in accordance investment.
Revaluation movements due to foreign exchange with applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by are transferred to the foreign exchange reserve and those due Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss to changes in the currency value of the investment are taken account is not presented.
The accounts have been prepared as at 31 March 2007, being Retirement Benefits the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2006 financial The pension rights of fide La Rue plc employees are dealt with year are for the year ended 25 March 2006. through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Groups finances.
The scheme is a The Directors have reviewed the Companys existing accounting defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions policies and consider that they are consistent with the from members and partly by contributions from fide La Rue plc requirements of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18.
The and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally Companys accounting policies are otherwise consistent with the qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, fide La Rue plc prior year.
accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from liabilities of the scheme cover fide La Rue plc and a number of preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash its subsidiaries and it cannot be split between each subsidiary Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Full details of the scheme of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party and its deficit measured on an IAS 19 basis can be found in transactions with entities that are part of the fide La Rue Group.
Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign Currencies Share Based Payment Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are fide La Rue plc operates various equity settled and cash settled denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by at the appropriate year end rates of exchange.
Exchange gains the issue of shares.
The services received from employees are and losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
within the interest section of the profit and loss account except The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the for exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase that are taken to reserves.
in shareholders funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated has been applied to share settled share options granted after in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of 7 November 2002. exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account, except those The fair value of share options issued by the Company to arising on long term foreign currency borrowings used to finance employees of subsidiaries is charged to the profit and loss account or hedge foreign currency investments which on consolidation of the relevant subsidiary.
The Company accounts for its obligation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
to grant options to employees of it subsidiaries by increasing the value of its investment in Group companies with a corresponding Trade Receivables entry being recorded in the subsidiary reserves as a capital Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less contribution.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Dividends Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders of fide La Rue plc are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
