55 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Accounting Policies Group The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Foreign currency transaction in Group entities these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These In individual entities, transactions in foreign currencies are translated policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at unless otherwise stated.
the dates of the individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently Basis of Preparation retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved date.
Such exchange differences are recorded within general and by the Directors in accordance with the International Financial administrative costs within the income statement.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial Net investment hedging statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on Exchange differences arising on the revaluation of long term foreign pages 87 to 90.
The financial statements have been prepared currency borrowings used to finance or hedge foreign currency under the historical costs convention as modified by the investments are taken directly to shareholders equity on consolidation.
revaluation of land, buildings, available for sale investments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the Translation of the results of foreign operations in the consolidated more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
financial statements The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries denominated in The accounts have been prepared as at 31 March 2007, being the foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for 2006 financial year ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses for are for the year ended 26 March 2006. each income statement of foreign subsidiaries are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable The Directors have considered the impact of new standards, approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing amendments aand interpretation that have been endorsed but on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses which are not yet effective and conclude that there is no material are translated at the dates of the transactions and all resulting impact of early adoption.
exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
When a foreign subsidiary is sold, exchange differences Accounting Convention that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income The consolidated accounts have been prepared under the statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
As permitted by historical cost convention with the exception of certain items IFRS 1, the balance on the cumulative translation adjustment which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting on retranslation of subsidiaries net assets has been set to zero policies below.
at the date of transition to IFRS.
Basis of Consolidation Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition The results of all of the subsidiaries of the Company have been of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the consolidated.
The majority of these subsidiaries and the material foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
associated companies prepare their financial information to 31 March except for certain associated companies and Revenue subsidiaries whose year end is 31 December.
In the case of the Group turnover represents sales to external customers of subsidiaries, whose financial statements are made up to manufactured products and services which fall within the Groups 31 December, results for the period to 31 March 2007 have been ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
The results of businesses acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition and the results of businesses sold Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent are included up to the date of disposal.
that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably Associated Companies measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when An associated company is one in which the Group has a long term goods or services are supplied to external customers in investment and is in a position to exercise significant influence over accordance with the terms of sale.
the company in which the investment is made.
When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and The Groups share of the profits of associated companies is rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
included in the consolidated profit and loss account.
Its interest in their net assets is included as an investment in the consolidated Intangible Assets balance sheet at the Groups share of the net assets at acquisition, All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less adjusted for goodwill or fair value adjustments recognised on initial accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill investment plus the Groups share of retained profits.
is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Foreign Currencies Currency of measurement Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic business combination over the Groups share of the fair value environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
of identifiable net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
which is fide La Rue plcs functional and presentational currency.
56 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Accounting Policies Group continued After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any are charged against other reserves directly in equity: all other accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition the decreases are charged to the income statement.
goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested at least annually for impairment.
Asset Impairment Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold except may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at least for goodwill deducted from shareholders equity.
Goodwill arising annually for impairment.
Impairment tests are performed for all CGUs on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and to which goodwill has been allocated at the balance sheet date or goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in whenever there is an indication of impairments.
For all other investments in associates.
Internally generated goodwill is not intangible assets, an impairment test is performed whenever an recognised as an asset.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the assets fair of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations are amounts after amortisation subject to being tested for impairment performed using cash flow projections for the asset or group of at that date.
assets where cash flows are not identifiable to specific assets, discounted at a rate which reflects the asset specific risks and the Development Costs time value of money.
Expenditure incurred in the development of products or enhancements is capitalised as an intangible asset only when the Government Grants future economic benefits expected to arise are deemed probable As permitted by IAS 20, government grant received in respect of and the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not property, plant and equipment are deducted from the cost of the meeting these criteria are expensed in the income statement as assets to which they relate.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives Leasing once the product or enhancement is available for use.
Product Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the research costs are written off as incurred.
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Other Intangible Assets Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over the shorter of of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease their useful economic life or their licence period at rates which vary payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated over from between three and five years.
Lease payments are apportioned between repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element of Distribution rights are amortised over their useful economic lives future lease payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
as determined by the life of the products to which they relate.
Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold lease incentives are recognised as a reduction in the rental and long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated expense over the lease term.
useful economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold interests are depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease Taxation and 50 years.
The tax expense included in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
life at rates which vary between 8 per cent and 50 per cent per annum.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that 10 per cent on plant and machinery, 10 per cent on fixtures and it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is fittings, and 33 per cent on tooling and computer equipment.
No depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts financial year end.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation at the date of using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when asset, and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land and buildings are credited to other reserves in shareholders Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary equity.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 57 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is re-measured at against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to equity settled investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except share options granted after 7 November 2002 not yet vested at where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal 1 January 2005 and to outstanding cash settled share options of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary as at 1 January 2005. difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share Option Schemes Inventories The Groups Employee Share Ownership Trusts are separately Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, administered trusts.
Liabilities of the trusts are guaranteed by the including relevant production overheads, and net realisable value.
Company and the assets of the trusts mainly comprise shares in Cost is determined on a weighted average cost basis.
comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating The shares held in the trusts are shown as a reduction in capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less Shareholders funds.
The shares will be held at historical rates estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves Employment Benefits rather than as a profit and loss item.
Pensions The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets bank and in hand, short term deposits and other short term liquid held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits investments, with original maturities of three months or less.
under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow curtailments are included in operating costs in the consolidated of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a the time value of money is considered material.
straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the Exceptional Items imputed interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise the pension Items which are both material by size and or by nature and nonelement of the net finance cost income in the income statement.
recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant consolidated income statement category.
The separate reporting Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, of exceptional items charged to operating profit helps provide an changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional statement of recognised income and expense in full in the include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses other than period in which they arise.
those within the scope of IFRS 5, restructuring of businesses and asset impairments.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit Dividends obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets at the balance Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end sheet date.
are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Segment Reporting The Groupsprimary reporting format is business segments and its Share Based Payments secondary format is geographical segments.
A business segment The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received of related products and is subject to risks and returns that are from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of different from those of other business segments.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and segment is a component of the Group that operates within a recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight return that are different from those of components operating in line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the other economic environments.
Non specific central costs are numbers of options that will actually vest.
Vesting conditions, allocated on the basis of estimates of time spent and other cost other than market based conditions, are not taken into account drivers and this policy is consistently applied.
when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options outstanding and recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the 58 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Accounting Policies Group continued Financial Instruments Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial financial instruments utilised by the Group include statements are continually evaluated and are based on historical cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
experience and other factors, including expectations of future Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting inline with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
classified as follows: The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
a Property, Plant and Equipment Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated b Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability to write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated Management determines the estimated useful lives and related with a forecast transaction.
depreciation charges at acquisition but will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives are subsequently found to be different to c Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to those previously estimated.
changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
b Impairment of Assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the that have indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-inincome statement.
use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to c Income Taxes be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non financial asset provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
during the ordinary course of business.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which affect the consolidated income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative d Pension Obligations financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number immediately in the consolidated income statement.
of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to operating activities are included in operating profit when The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for recognised in the consolidated income statement pensions include the expected long term rate of return on the relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these Borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Where borrowings assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
are used to hedge the Groups interests in the net assets of The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined foreign operations, the portion of the exchange gain or loss on on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long term recognised in equity.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations.
discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
