Diageo Annual Report 2007 119 32 Commitments Capital expenditure Commitments not provided for in these consolidated financial statements are estimated at 86 million 2006 56 million.
Operating lease commitments 2007 2006 million million Payments falling due: Within one year 72 78 Between one and two years 64 68 Between two and three years 60 61 Between three and four years 50 57 Between four and five years 41 45 After five years 280 258 567 567 33 Employee share compensation The group uses a number of equity settled share plans to grant options and shares to its directors and employees.
For the year ended 30 June 2007, the fair value charge to the consolidated income statement in respect of these plans was 25 million 2006 26 million: 2005 28 million.
Executive share option plans a Diageo executive share option plan DSOP This scheme was introduced in December 1999 and grants options to executives at the market price on the date of grant.
Options granted under this scheme may normally be exercised between three and 10 years after the date granted.
There are no performance conditions to be satisfied although the top 100 senior executives are required to hold shares in Diageo plc.
US executives are granted options over the companys ADSs one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
b Diageo senior executive share option plan SESOP This scheme was introduced with effect from 1 January 2000 and grants options to senior executives at the market price on the date of grant.
Options granted under the scheme cannot normally be exercised unless a performance condition is satisfied.
The current performance condition is based on the increase in Diageos adjusted earnings per share EPS measure over a three year period.
If the increase in this EPS measure is at least 15 percentage points greater than the increase in the RPI over the same period, then all the options can be exercised.
If the increase in this EPS measure is at least 12 percentage points greater than that of the RPI but less than 15 percentage points, half of the options can be exercised.
For options granted prior to October 2004, if the options fail either initial performance condition, the three year assessment period will be rolled forward by a year and a re-test carried out at that time.
If the performance condition is satisfied, options can be exercised up to 10 years after the date of grant.
For options granted from 1 October 2004, no re-testing is permitted.
US executives are granted options over the companys ADSs.
c Diageo associated companies share option plan DACSOP This scheme was introduced in March 2001 and grants options to executives in a number of associated companies.
The terms of the scheme are the same as for DSOP.
d UK executive share option schemes ESOS The last options granted under these schemes were in 1997.
The group operated executive share option schemes and a supplemental scheme for senior executives.
These schemes incorporated the former GrandMet scheme, the former Guinness Group executive share option schemes and the Guinness Group 1994 employee incentive trust.
Options were granted at the market price on the date of the grant and there are no performance criteria.
Options issued under these schemes may normally be exercised between three and 10 years after the date granted.
Savings plans a UK savings-related share option scheme SRSOS The UK savings-related share option scheme is an Inland Revenue approved scheme available to all UK employees.
The scheme provides a long term savings opportunity for employees.
The options may normally be exercised after three or five years, according to the length of the option period chosen by the employee, at a price not less than 80% of the market value of the shares at the time of the option grant.
b US employee stock purchase plan USESPP This scheme provides a long term savings and investment opportunity for US employees.
The options may normally be exercised 12 months after the grant of the option at a price equivalent to 85% of the market value of the ADSs at the time of the option grant.
c International savings-related share option plan International The group also operates an international savings-related share option plan.
The scheme provides a long term savings opportunity for employees outside the United Kingdom.
The options may be exercised between one and five years after grant.
The scheme has discount criteria ranging from nil to 20% devised in accordance with local conditions and practices.
