136 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Reconciliation to US generally accepted accounting principles continued SFAS No.
158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
158, an amendment of FASB Statements Nos.
158 requires an employer that is a business entity and sponsors one or more single employer benefit plans to: 1 recognise the funded status of the benefit plan in its statement of financial position: 2 recognise as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognised as components of net periodic benefit cost: 3 measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employers financial year end statement of financial position: and 4 disclose in the notes to the financial statements additional information about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next financial year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition assets or obligations.
The group adopted SFAS No.
As a result, under US GAAP, the group recognised a decrease of 281 million in total assets, an increase of 132 million in total liabilities, and an additional charge of 413 million to accumulated other comprehensive income.
159 Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No.
This statement expands opportunities to use fair value measurement in financial reporting and permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.
159 is effective for financial years beginning after 15 November 2007.
The group has not designated any non-derivative financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition under IFRS, and therefore does not expect to measure any financial instruments at fair value under the provisions of SFAS No.
FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
109 In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No.
This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognised in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No.
FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.
FIN 48 is effective for the groups financial year ending 30 June 2008.
The adoption of FIN 48 is not expected to have a material effect on the results or net assets of the group.
SAB 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
108 SAB 108, which provides interpretive guidance on how registrants should quantify misstatements when evaluating the materiality of financial statement errors.
SAB 108 also provides transition accounting and disclosure guidance for situations in which there existed an error in prior period financial statements, the correction of which could be considered material in the current year, by allowing companies to restate prior period financial statements or recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying SAB 108 through an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption.
SAB 108 is effective for financial years ending after 15 November 2006.
The adoption of SAB 108 had no impact on the groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Other recent accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB including the Emerging Issues Task Force, the AICPA and the SEC are not believed by management to have a material impact on the groups present or future consolidated financial statements.
36 Post balance sheet events In the period from the balance sheet date to 29 August 2007, the company acquired and cancelled 24 million shares for a total consideration of 249 million including expenses.
