118 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings i Guarantees In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury, Diageo has guaranteed the debt of a third party to the amount of $200 million 100 million until November 2009.
Including this guarantee, but net of the amount provided in the consolidated financial statements, at 30 June 2007 the group has given performance guarantees and indemnities to third parties of 106 million.
There has been no material change since 30 June 2007 in the groups performance guarantees and indemnities.
ii Colombian litigation An action was filed on 8 October 2004 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by the Republic of Colombia and a number of its local government entities against Diageo and other spirits companies.
The complaint alleges several causes of action.
Included among the causes of action is a claim that the defendants allegedly violated the Federal RICO Act by facilitating money laundering in Colombia through their supposed involvement in the contraband trade to the detriment of government owned spirits production and distribution businesses.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which the lawsuit may give rise.
Diageo intends to defend itself vigorously against this lawsuit.
iii Alcohol advertising litigation A number of similar putative class actions are pending in state and federal courts in the United States against Diageo plc, Diageo North America Inc and other Diageo entities, along with a large group of other beverage alcohol manufacturers, brewers and importers.
All have been brought by the same national counsel.
In each action, the plaintiffs seek to pursue their claims on behalf of parents and guardians of people under the legal drinking age who illegally bought alcohol beverages during the period from 1982 to the present.
Plaintiffs allege several causes of action, principally for negligence, unjust enrichment and violation of state consumer fraud statutes.
Some complaints include additional claims based on conspiracy, nuisance and other legal theories.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss of which these actions may give rise.
Diageo intends to defend itself vigorously against these claims.
iv Turkish customs litigation In common with other beverage alcohol importers, litigation is ongoing against Diageos Turkish subsidiary in the Turkish Civil Courts in connection with the methodology used by the Turkish customs authorities in assessing the importation value of and duty payable on the beverage alcohol products sold in the domestic channel in Turkey.
The matter involves multiple cases against Diageos Turkish subsidiary at various stages of litigation, including a group of cases under correction appeal following an adverse finding at the Turkish Supreme Court.
Diageos Turkish subsidiary is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which these cases may give rise.
Diageos Turkish subsidiary intends to defend its position vigorously.
v Other The group has extensive international operations and is defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to these operations.
There are a number of legal claims against the group, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Diageo group.
31 Related party transactions Subsidiaries Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not disclosed.
Associates Transactions between the group and its associates were as follows: Group sales include sales to associates of 6 million 2006 9 million: 2005 7 million and operating costs include purchases from associates of 3 million 2006 nil: 2005 4 million.
There were no amounts receivable from or payable to associates at 30 June 2007 and 30 June 2006.
Joint ventures Due to the nature of the proportional basis of consolidation applied according to the relevant contractual arrangements, transactions between the group and its joint ventures are eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not disclosed.
Key management personnel The key management of the group comprises the executive and non-executive directors, the members of the executive committee and the company secretary.
They are listed under Directors and senior management.
2007 2006 2005 million million million Salaries and short term employee benefits 12 10 10 Non-executive directors fees 1 1 1 a Share-based payments 6 6 5 Other long term benefits 2 3 3 a Post employment benefits 3 3 2 24 23 21 a Non-executive directors do not receive share-based payments or post employment benefits.
Details are given in the directors remuneration report of the individual directors remuneration and transactions between the group and key management personnel.
Pension plans The Diageo pension plans are recharged with the cost of administration and professional fees paid for by the company in respect of the pension plans.
The total amount recharged for the year was 17 million 2006 10 million: 2005 9 million.
