Diageo Annual Review 2007 23 Asia Pacific Regional highlights Diageo is optimistic about the future growth that can be derived from the region 22% Factfile Organic growth in marketing Asia Pacific spend in the region The total beverage alcohol market in Asia is currently worth about 15 billion and continues to grow steadily year on year In China scotch and cognac are the most 840m popular Western spirits categories Scotch is growing most rapidly and the largest category by volume, while cognac leads by Net sales in the region value in China Johnnie Walkers largest Asian market is China Asia Pacific was newly organised as a region in February Captain Morgan, a brand known for its strength in the Building on performance this year and is made up of India, the Peoples Republic United States, was introduced in India, offering its unique In Japan, we saw growth in the premium beer segment of China, South Korea, Japan and other Asian markets spiced rum flavour to a new group of consumers.
Shark and Guinness benefited from this, growing over the past as well as Australia and New Zealand.
It delivered 13% Tooth vodka and Masterstroke whisky, both of which five years.
Smirnoff Ice was the number one premium organic growth in net sales and 7% in operating profit.
were new to world innovations, along with Haig whisky ready to drink in the market and our innovations for Encompassing two countries of the fast-growing BRIC were also introduced.
Masterstroke is the first brand to the region were designed to help expand that growth economies, India and China, Diageo is optimistic about be developed with joint venture partner, Radico Khaitan, with additional variants such as Smirnoff Ice Dry and the future growth that can be derived from the region.
following an announcement to develop local whiskies Smirnoff Spice.
Bringing Diageos marketing expertise to the Investment in emerging markets venture, Masterstroke answered consumer demand for Considered to be possibly the biggest luxury market In a market that is developing rapidly and with growing quality at competitive pricing.
in the world, Diageo has also been seeding its Reserve consumer sophistication, the unique Smirnoff Bar 21 was brands in Japan with a focus on super premium spirits introduced in Mumbai.
Smirnoff Bar 21 is a fully moveable As investment in China continued, Johnnie Walker such as Croc, Don Julio, Bulleit, The Singleton of Glen Ord concept bar that creates a space within an existing club, introduced a new marketing campaign called Heres to and Royal Lochnagar, which were all launched in the year offering patrons an opportunity to experience international Going Global featuring Chinese designers who have been with expectations of future growth.
successful on the world stage with the idea of encouraging a new generation of young adults to keep working In Korea, Windsor continued to deliver strongly with New standards in off trade visibility were created in India to achieve their ambitions.
In addition to television a new marketing campaign and the introduction of a with a programme called Johnnie Walker Select.
Working advertising, the programme was supported with a brand non-refillable cap to ensure brand quality.
The Cool Drinker in partnership with customers, the programme upgrades owned fashion show and concert as well as on and off responsible drinking campaign expanded this year existing retail outlets, transforming them into a worldtrade activities.
With eight months of activity, it is estimated through successful partnership with local businesses class shopping experience, providing access to Diageos the programme reached hundreds of thousands of and universities.
premium brands in one place along with interactive consumers with a contemporary, international and kiosks and brochures that introduced consumers to dynamic programme, synonymous with the Johnnie In Thailand, Diageos business outperformed the declining the business range of categories.
whisky category with net sales up in the year.
Diageo led across premium, deluxe and super deluxe scotch Diageo also made a minority stake investment in Sichuan segments and increased value share in the overall Chengdu Quanxing Group Co Ltd, which enabled entry scotch category.
to the Chinese white spirit category with a premium brand.
Diageo also opened a state-of-the-art logistics centre The release of the latest James Bond movie, Casino in Singapore.
This centre allows more flexibility and Royale, brought excitement for fans and allowed responsiveness to the demands of a diverse and growing Smirnoff to continue to establish its stylish credentials market in Asia Pacific.
with its reappearance in the series.
Through brand marketing and promotions during the films release, the association drove awareness and credibility for Smirnoff in over 20 cities.
10years 2 9years 1 8years 6 years 3 2years 18 8years 8 7 2 years 4 5 3years 3years 10 16 19 8years 6 9 11 12 14 13 17 15 Years highlighted refer to length served on the board 5years
