Diageo Annual Review 2007 15 Europe Regional highlights Innovation continued to play a critical role in Europes performance agenda 63% Factfile Organic net sales growth for Diageo Europe in Russia Guinness moved up one notch this year to become Great Britains fourth most popular beer overall and third most popular in the on trade 391 m Germany is now Europes largest spirits market Diageo implemented responsible drinking initiatives in all European Union Total marketing spend in the region member states While Europe as a whole still faced external trends that In Great Britain during the run-up to Christmas Diageo Attitudes to alcohol continued to impact sales, the regions growth strategy, moderated its promotions on a festive favourite, Baileys.
Diageo led the European drinks industry in pioneering based on polarisation of investment choices, began to While this resulted in volume loss for the brand this year, consumer responsible drinking programmes.
it increased net sales per case and it is believed that included collaborations within the drinks industry such as this will help protect the brand equity for a continued the DrinkAware Trust in Great Britain and MEAS in Ireland.
In the trends there were challenges and exciting healthy future.
These included increased regulation, an The business initiated responsible drinking programmes ageing consumer base, beverage alcohol being consumed The launch of a new 75% owned company in Russia, in all EU member states and will focus on the accession more frequently with food and premiumisation, especially Diageo Distribution, was a highlight this year.
Diageos states in the coming year.
Diageo also became a founding in spirits.
business in Russia, formed for the distribution, sales and member of the EU Alcohol and Health Forum, the worlds marketing of spirits brands, is focused on high margin first multi-stakeholder forum to tackle alcohol related harm Against this backdrop Diageo evolved its organisation imported spirits such as Johnnie Walker, Baileys and and sponsored the European Transport Safety Council, structure in Europe, optimising it for business success.
Captain Morgan and the domestic vodka market, which dedicated to reducing drink driving throughout Europe.
At the beginning of the year a Continental European holds great opportunity for Smirnov.
In the year the business was created.
This new hub allowed for Russian business grew organic net sales 63%, offering a As a consumer goods company Diageo believes that consistency in operations and marketing and had a strong position to capitalise on continued market growth.
the key to influencing consumer attitude lies in media strong year.
Going forward, growth of Diageos premium communications that are directly generated by consumer brands collection including Johnnie Walker Blue Label, Focused investment insight.
This is just as true in the field of responsible Smirnoff Black and Classic Malt whiskies will be key to Innovation continued to play a critical role in Europes drinking.
In Great Britain this year a consumer education the success of this business.
The pan-European launch of programme was created with Tesco available at point Baileys flavours was a tremendous success and further of purchase in stores and on their website.
In Iberia a reorganisation streamlined the operational launches are happening in markets across Europe and model and focused investment on the best performing indeed the world into the new financial year.
Smirnoff In Ireland Diageo led discussions to create and activate and most important brands.
As a result Diageo is Black continued to perform well with exciting consumer a a20 million responsible drinking fund, which delivered positioned for long term sustainable growth in programmes to drive premiumisation of this small batch new consumer campaigns to promote responsible the market.
vodka crafted in the traditional Russian method.
This groundbreaking initiative is completely industry funded and included education, research In both Ireland and Great Britain challenges in changing Diageo established category partnerships with and server training initiatives to promote better attitudes consumer trends continued, specifically with the move retailers in Ireland, Greece, Spain and Great Britain.
from on trade consumption to off trade.
This was accomplished by strengthening relationships with multinational customers, improving senior In Ireland investment through innovation provided level communications and implementing the first consumers with more exciting on trade offerings such pan-European campaigns for Baileys and Johnnie Walker.
as Guinness Mid-Strength, which is currently on trial in Diageo also trained over 5,000 bar staff throughout Limerick and Dublin.
Investment was also made in the Europe and set up its first concept store in the off trade with new offerings and innovations in displaying developing market of Poland.
This work has resulted Diageos brands.
in a collection of customer recognition awards.
Loyal f Extra footba Guinness Since: 1759 Origin: Ireland Nigeria was the second largest market for Guinness Guinness is sold in over 150 countries worldwide Almost 10 million glasses of Guinness are sold every day around the world that's more than 100 every second!
A pint of Guinness contains 196 calories less than a pint of semi-skimmed milk www.
com Guinness Since: 1759 fans enjoy Guinness Foreign Stout while cheering a all match in Lagos, Nigeria 248 years old 18 Diageo Annual Review 2007 1 2 Lewis Hamilton embarked on an impressive career claiming several Grand Prix victories for Team Vodafone McLaren Mercedes, sponsored by Johnnie Walker 3 500k Over 500,000 people have been reached with Diageos Water of Life programme in Africa 4 1 Smirnoff Storm launched 2 Diageos sponsorship of the 3 Guinness Greatness ad 4 The Buchanans Forever in South Africa ICC Cricket World Cup donated campaign enhanced sales concert series featured $1 million to Habitat for Humanity in Africa Jon Bon Jovi
