Diageo Annual Report 2007 151 Glossary of terms and US equivalents In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: Term used in UK Annual Report US equivalent or definition Acquisition accounting Purchase accounting Associates Entities accounted for under the equity method American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing ownership of an ADS American Depositary Share ADS Registered negotiable security, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, representing four Diageo plc 101 ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each Called up share capital Common stock Capital allowances Tax depreciation Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital Company Diageo plc Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Debtors Receivables Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Employment or staff costs Payroll costs Equivalent units An equivalent unit represents one nine litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
To convert volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine litre cases divide by five, ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by 10, and certain pre-mixed products classified as ready to drink divide by five.
Euro, a, Euro currency Exceptional items Items that, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence.
Exceptional items under IFRS do not represent extraordinary items under US GAAP.
Excise duty Tax charged by a sovereign territory on the production, manufacture, sale or distribution of selected goods including imported goods within that territory.
Excise duties are generally based on the quantity or alcohol content of goods, rather than their value, and are typically applied to alcohol products and fuels.
Finance lease Capital lease Financial year Fiscal year Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Free cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, and net purchase and disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles Group and Diageo Diageo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union Impact Databank An international data resource for the beverage alcohol industry that is independent from industry participants Merger accounting Pooling of interests Net asset value Book value Noon buying rate Buying rate at noon in New York City for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Operating profit Net operating income Organic movement At level foreign exchange rates and after adjusting for exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals for continuing operations Own shares Treasury stock Pound sterling, sterling, pence, p UK currency Profit Earnings Profit and loss account Statement of income accumulated earnings Profit for the year Net income Provisions Accruals for losses contingencies Recognised income and expense Comprehensive income Redundancy charges Early release scheme expenses Reserves Accumulated earnings, other comprehensive income and additional paid in capital RPI UK retail prices index Scrip dividend Stock dividend SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission Share premium Additional paid in capital or paid in surplus Shareholders funds Shareholders equity Shares Common stock Shares and ordinary shares Diageo plcs ordinary shares Shares in issue Shares issued and outstanding Trade and other payables Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Trade and other receivables Accounts receivable net US dollar, US$, $, US currency 152 Diageo Annual Report 2007 This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and is 100% recyclable.
It is an FSC certified material.
Designed and produced by 35 Communications.
14.4% Return on invested capital 17 % Organic growth in net sales of Guinness in Africa m 15 Volume of sales of Johnnie Walker in equivalent 9-litre cases Diageo plc 8 Henrietta Place London W1G 0NB United Kingdom Tel 44 0 20 7927 5200 Fax 44 0 20 7927 4600 www.
com No 1 Registered in England Smirnoff, the worlds No.
23307 leading premium spirit 2007 Diageo plc.
All brands mentioned in this Annual Report are trademarks and are registered and or otherwise protected in accordance with applicable law.
33 79 Red Stripe Baileys 258 248 J&B Guinness 10 Diageo 24 68 Captain Morgan Crown Royal 177 147 Smirnoff Tanqueray 187 Diageo plc 8 Henrietta Place Johnnie Walker London W1G 0NB United Kingdom Tel 44 0 20 7927 5200 Fax 44 0 20 7927 4600 www.
com years old 249 4 Registered in England Jos Cuervo Croc No.
All brands mentioned in this Annual Review are trademarks and are registered and or 399 otherwise protected in accordance with years old: years old: years old: years old: applicable law.
147 Smirnoff 187 Johnnie Walker 24 Captain Morgan 33 Baileys Bushmills Annual Review 2007
