144 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Additional information for shareholders Legal proceedings i Colombian litigation An action was filed on 8 October 2004 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by the Republic of Colombia and a number of its local government entities against Diageo and other spirits companies.
The complaint alleges several causes of action.
Included among the causes of action is a claim that the defendants allegedly violated the Federal RICO Act by facilitating money laundering in Colombia through their supposed involvement in the contraband trade to the detriment of government owned spirits production and distribution businesses.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which the lawsuit may give rise.
Diageo intends to defend itself vigorously against this lawsuit.
ii Alcohol advertising litigation A number of similar putative class actions are pending in state and federal courts in the United States against Diageo plc, Diageo North America Inc and other Diageo entities, along with a large group of other beverage alcohol manufacturers, brewers and importers.
All have been brought by the same national counsel.
In each action, the plaintiffs seek to pursue their claims on behalf of parents and guardians of people under the legal drinking age who illegally bought alcohol beverages during the period from 1982 to the present.
Plaintiffs allege several causes of action, principally for negligence, unjust enrichment and violation of state consumer fraud statutes.
Some complaints include additional claims based on conspiracy, nuisance and other legal theories.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which these actions may give rise.
Diageo intends to defend itself vigorously against these claims.
iii Turkish customs litigation In common with other beverage alcohol importers, litigation is ongoing against Diageos Turkish subsidiary in the Turkish Civil Courts in connection with the methodology used by the Turkish customs authorities in assessing the importation value of and duty payable on the beverage alcohol products sold in the domestic channel in Turkey.
The matter involves multiple cases against Diageos Turkish subsidiary at various stages of litigation, including a group of cases under correction appeal following an adverse finding at the Turkish Supreme Court.
Diageos Turkish subsidiary is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which these cases may give rise.
Diageos Turkish subsidiary intends to defend its position vigorously.
iv Other The group has extensive international operations and is defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to these operations.
There are a number of legal claims against the group, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Diageo group.
Material contracts Put option agreement on General Mills shares On 24 August 2005, Diageo entered into a put option agreement giving the group the option to sell all of its remaining 25 million shares of General Mills common stock to Lehman Brothers International Europe for settlement over five business days between 4 and 10 November 2005, for the exercise price of $51.56 per share representing a total value of $1,294 million.
The premium payable by Diageo for the put options was $5.56 per share representing a total cost of $140 million.
The options were exercised, generating net proceeds of $1,154 million.
Agreement for the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses On 19 December 2000, Diageo and Pernod Ricard SA entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement the SAPA with Vivendi Universal SA, whereby Pernod Ricard and Diageo agreed to acquire stock and assets of the worldwide spirits, wines, wine and malt coolers, other malt beverages, fortified wines, non-alcoholic mixers and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages business of The Seagram Company Ltd.
The acquisition was completed on 21 December 2001.
The acquisition consideration, under the SAPA, was $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash, subject to a number of adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price, after adjustment, was 3.7 billion.
The terms of the bidding and acquisition arrangements between Pernod Ricard and Diageo for the Seagram acquisition were governed by the Framework Implementation Agreement, a formal agreement entered into on 4 December 2000 which was subsequently amended and restated the FIA.
The FIA set out amongst other things principles governing the split of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses, the integration process for the business and the interim management of the non-core businesses.
The FIA was terminated by the execution of a further agreement on 21 December 2002 which was subsequently amended and supplemented the SOFIA although this termination is without prejudice to any prior breaches of the FIA.
Under the SOFIA, all material assets that were jointly acquired by Pernod Ricard and Diageo from Vivendi Universal are allocated between Diageo and Pernod Ricard.
A number of the provisions of the FIA have been carried forward into the SOFIA in modified form.
These include provisions relating to the parties responsibility for liabilities incurred by or in connection with the various businesses acquired under the SAPA including for the sharing of certain liabilities between the parties.
Where liability is to be shared between Diageo and Pernod Ricard, this is generally on the basis of the same 60.9 39.1 ratio adopted for the FIA subject to, amongst other things, fide minimis limitations that limit the ability of one party to recover from the other in certain cases and to detailed conduct of claims provisions.
The SOFIA also provides for the settlement of various historic and ongoing claims between the parties under the FIA and for the settlement of various costs and expenses including future costs and expenses.
In addition, the SOFIA provides the basis for the management of the remaining jointly-owned businesses including for their future restructuring and or liquidation.
Related party transactions Transactions with directors are disclosed in the directors remuneration report see Directors remuneration report Additional information and transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Diageo Annual Report 2007 145 Share capital 101 As at 13 August 2007, Diageo had an authorised share capital of 5,329 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal value 101 of 1,542 million, and an allotted and fully paid share capital of 2,911 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of 842 million including treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
Major shareholders At 13 August 2007, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the company.
Percentage of Number of issued ordinary share capital Shareholder ordinary shares excluding treasury shares Date of notification of interest Capital Research and Management Company indirect holding 155,553,200 5.78% 15 March 2007 Legal & General Group Plc direct holding 93,705,584 3.46% 14 February 2007 The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the company.
As at the close of business on 13 August 2007, 497,893,010 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by approximately 2,674 holders including American Depositary Receipt ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 19% of the outstanding ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
At such date, 124,473,252 ADSs were held by 1,925 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet or Guinness Group ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
Trading market for shares The Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo plc American Depositary Shares ADSs, representing four Diageo plc ordinary shares each, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
Only member firms of the Exchange can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, are published immediately after execution.
Trades greater than eight times normal market size may be conducted under a worked principal regime, in which a member firm acting as principal commits to carry out, at some point in the future, a transaction in a size exceeding eight times normal market size.
Member firms must agree a basis price with their client and must offer the potential for improvement in price and or size.
Worked principal agreements must be notified to the Exchange when entered into, although notifications are not published until the end of the business day or until 80% of the trade has been unwound.
Diageo ordinary shares have a normal market size of 200,000.
The normal market size classification for each equity security is subject to quarterly review in the light of trading volume in the previous quarter and to adjustment, as appropriate.
The ordinary shares are a constituent element of the FTSE 100.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fluctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
146 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Additional information for shareholders continued The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Official List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
Memorandum and articles of association The following description summarises certain provisions of Diageos memorandum of association and of its articles of association as adopted by special resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 18 October 2005 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each case as at 13 August 2007.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos memorandum and articles of association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of the memorandum and articles of association is provided under Additional information for shareholders Documents on display below.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 October 2007 to amend the articles of association.
The proposed changes derive from new statutory requirements and are good housekeeping in nature, covering electronic communications with shareholders updating the power, retirement of directors aged 70 or more deleting the requirement and certain matters relating to joint holders of shares and corporate representatives reflecting changes in the law.
If adopted, the changes will be reflected in the summary of the articles which will appear in the 2008 Annual Report.
All of Diageos ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by Diageo from the holders of such shares.
Objects and purposes Diageo is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307.
Diageos objects and purposes are set forth in the fourth clause of its memorandum of association and cover a wide range of activities, including carrying on the business of a holding company, carrying on the business of producing, distributing and marketing branded drinks and brewing, distilling and manufacturing wines, spirits and mineral or other types of water, as well as doing anything incidental or conducive to the attainment of its objectives.
The memorandum of association grants Diageo a broad range of powers to effect these objectives.
Diageo Annual Report 2007 147 Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than 25 directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of Diageo.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by the board of directors.
At each annual general meeting at least one-third of the directors, representing those directors who have been in office the longest since their last election, and, in addition, any directors appointed by the board of directors since the last annual general meeting are required to resign and are then reconsidered for election, assuming they wish to stand for re-election.
At present, any directors aged 70 or more at the date of the annual general meeting are also required to resign and submit themselves for re-election assuming they wish to stand for re-election at each annual general meeting, but amendments to the articles of association to be put to the 2007 Annual General Meeting will remove this requirement.
Under Diageos articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a material interest.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred for the benefit of Diageo, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of obligations of Diageo for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee or by the giving of security, c relating to an offer of securities of Diageo in which the director participates or may participate as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting, d relating to any contract in which the director is interested by virtue of the directors interest in securities of Diageo or by reason of any other interest in or through Diageo, e concerning any other company in which the director is directly or indirectly interested, provided that the director does not own 1% or more of that company, f relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit including any retirement benefit plan in which the director will share equally with other employees, g relating to any insurance that Diageo purchases or maintains for its directors or any group of people, including directors, h giving the director an indemnity where all the other directors are being offered indemnities on substantially the same terms, and i for the funding by Diageo of the directors expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by Diageo of anything to enable the director to avoid incurring such expenditure where all the other directors are being offered substantially the same arrangements.
Under the articles of association, compensation awarded to executive directors may be decided by the board or any authorised committee of the board.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board concerning matters relating to remuneration policy.
It is comprised of all the non-executive directors except for Lord Blyth.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Diageo to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net external borrowings of the group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the aggregate of the groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Diageos shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of Diageo as a qualification to act as a director.
Dividend rights Holders of Diageos ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends may be paid to an approved depositary in currencies other than pounds sterling and such dividends will be calculated using an appropriate market exchange rate as determined by the directors in accordance with Diageos articles of association.
If a dividend has not been claimed, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of Diageo until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date such dividend was declared or became due for payment, it will be forfeited and will revert to Diageo unless the directors decide otherwise.
Diageos articles of association permit payment or satisfaction of a dividend wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the directors.
Voting rights Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairman of the meeting: at least three shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the proposing and passing of three kinds of resolutions: ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, re-election and removal of directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor, the increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: special resolutions, which include resolutions amending Diageos memorandum or articles of association and resolutions relating to certain matters concerning Diageos winding up: and extraordinary resolutions, which include resolutions modifying the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders of such class.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled to cast the deciding vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
148 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Additional information for shareholders continued Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of Diageo, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority in accordance with English law, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by the Companies Acts, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of Diageos assets.
Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon the adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, vest the assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Disclosure of interests in Diageos shares There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of Diageos shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Companies Acts.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify Diageo and the Financial Services Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in Diageo he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares or financial instruments: or reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in Diageo.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
General meetings and notices At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting is required.
An annual general meeting may be held on shorter notice provided that all the shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting agree.
Any general meeting which is not an annual general meeting is called an extraordinary general meeting.
At least 14 clear days written notice of any extraordinary general meeting is required, unless a special resolution or a resolution on which special notice has been given to Diageo is proposed, in which case 21 clear days written notice is required.
Any extraordinary general meeting may be held on shorter notice if a majority in number of shareholders, who together hold at least 95% in nominal value of Diageos shares giving a right to attend and vote at such meeting, agree.
Under Diageos articles of association, the annual general meeting of shareholders must be held within 15 months of the preceding annual general meeting and at a time and place determined by the directors.
Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares, in each case in accordance with the Companies Acts and the articles of association.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 278,571,000 101 ordinary shares during the period up to the next annual general meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 28 108 pence and the maximum price is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five preceding business days: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Official List at the time the purchase is carried out.
Diageo Annual Report 2007 149 Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys memorandum and articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
Documents on display The latest Annual Report, the Annual Review and any related documents of the company may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
Taxation This section provides a descriptive summary of US federal income tax and UK tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs, who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares and ADSs.
This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: a dealer in securities or foreign currency: a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings: a tax-exempt organisation: a life insurance company: a person liable for alternative minimum tax: a person that actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the voting stock of Diageo: a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction: a US holder as defined below whose functional currency is not the US dollar: or a partnership.
For UK tax purposes, this section applies only to persons who are the absolute beneficial owners of their shares or ADSs and who hold their shares or ADSs as investments.
It assumes that holders of ADSs will be treated as holders of the underlying ordinary shares.
In addition to those persons mentioned above, this section does not apply to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies, other financial institutions or to persons who have or are deemed to have acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs in the course of an employment.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and the laws of the United Kingdom, all as currently in effect, as well as on the Convention Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
In addition, this section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
In general, and taking into account this assumption, for US federal income tax purposes and for the purposes of the Treaty, holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax on profits or gains.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax purposes: a citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States and who is not and has at no point been resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom: a US domestic corporation: an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source: or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
This section is not intended to provide specific advice and no action should be taken or omitted in reliance upon it.
This discussion addresses only certain aspects of US federal income tax and UK income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and stamp taxes.
Dividends UK taxation There is no UK withholding tax on dividends.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom that receives a dividend from the company will generally be entitled to a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
The individual will be taxable on the total of the dividend and the related credit, known as the gross dividend, which will be regarded as the top slice of the individuals income.
The tax credit will, however, be treated as discharging the individuals liability to income tax in respect of the gross dividend, unless and except to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the higher rate of income tax, in which case the individual will, to that extent, pay tax on the gross dividend calculated as 32.5% of the gross dividend less the related tax credit.
A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom will not generally be taxable on any dividend it receives in respect of the shares.
A shareholder who is not liable for tax on dividends received on the shares will not be entitled to claim payment of the tax credit in respect of those dividends.
Eligible US holders will not normally be entitled to a tax credit under the Treaty, nor will they be subject to a withholding tax by the United Kingdom.
150 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Additional information for shareholders continued US taxation Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, the gross amount of any dividend paid to a US holder by Diageo in respect of its ordinary shares or ADSs out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Diageo with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will be qualified dividend income to US holders that meet the holding period requirement.
Under the Treaty, dividends will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
Therefore, the US holder will include in income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually received, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
The dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States, and dividends paid in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2007 generally will be passive or financial services income, while dividends paid in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2006 will generally be passive or general income, which, in either case, is treated separately from other types of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to a US holder.
The amount of the dividend distribution that must be included in income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the pence payments made, determined at the spot UK sterling US dollar foreign exchange rate on the date the dividend distribution is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Taxation of capital gains UK taxation A citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States who has at no time been either resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are held in connection with a trade or business carried on by the holder in the United Kingdom through a UK branch, agency or a permanent establishment.
US taxation Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount that is realised and the tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15% where the property is held for more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
A US holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against the holders US federal income tax liability for the amount of any UK tax paid in respect of such gain.
PFIC rules Diageo believes that ordinary shares and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, US holders would be treated as if the holder had realised such gain and certain excess distributions pro-rated over the holders holding period for the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends received from Diageo will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Diageo is a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
UK inheritance tax An ordinary share or ADS held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom relating to estate and gift taxes the Convention and is not a UK national as defined in the Convention will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death whether held on the date of death or gifted during the individuals lifetime except where the ordinary share or ADS is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of the individual or pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual who performs independent personal services.
The Convention generally provides for inheritance tax paid in the United Kingdom to be credited against federal gift or estate tax payable in the United States, or for federal gift or estate tax paid in the United States to be credited against any inheritance tax payable in the United Kingdom, based on priority rules set forth in the Convention, in a case where an ordinary share or ADS is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises upon the deposit of an underlying ordinary share with the Depositary, generally at the higher rate of 1.5% of its issue price or, as the case may be, of the consideration for transfer.
The Depositary will pay the SDRT but will recover an amount in respect of such tax from the initial holders of ADSs.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs in practice, provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and remains at all times outside the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs will not give rise to a liability to SDRT.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be subject to UK stamp duty, or SDRT as the case may be, at the rate of 0.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
However, where ordinary shares being acquired are transferred direct to the Depositarys nominee, the only charge will generally be the higher SDRT charge of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares so acquired.
