84 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 New accounting policies The following interpretations, issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market: waste electrical and electronic equipment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 December 2005.
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Accounting for share-based payments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
In August 2005, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures, which contained new regulations concerning the disclosure of financial instruments.
IFRS 7 replaces the disclosure regulations of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and must be applied to reporting periods that commence on or after 1 January 2007.
Diageo adopted IFRS 7 early in its 2006 financial statements and applied the exemptions under IFRS 1, IFRS 7 and IAS 32 not to restate comparative information in respect of IFRS 7, IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
As a consequence, financial instruments are included in the 2005 comparative information in accordance with UK GAAP, whereas they are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 in the 2006 and 2007 results.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, this was treated as a change in accounting policy.
The accounting policies for financial instruments under IAS 39 and, for the year ended 30 June 2005, under UK GAAP are detailed in Accounting policies of the group.
The adjustments made to net assets as a result of adopting IAS 39 on 1 July 2005 are detailed in note 34.
If the group had not taken this exemption, a number of financial instruments would have been recognised or revalued in the opening balance sheet at 1 July 2004 and accounted for under IAS 39 during the year ended 30 June 2005.
The following standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or IFRIC, have not yet been adopted by the group: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: capital disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 Operating segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The amendment to IAS 1 requires additional disclosures on the objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
Appropriate additional disclosures will be included in the 2008 Annual Report.
The amendment to IAS 23 generally eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as incurred, and instead requires the capitalisation of such borrowing costs as part of the cost of specific assets.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the amendment on the results and net assets of the group.
IFRS 8 contains requirements for the disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments and also about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers.
The standard is concerned only with disclosure and replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting.
The group is currently assessing the impact this standard would have on the presentation of its consolidated results.
The group does not currently believe the adoption of the interpretations would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the group reported in these financial statements.
2 Segmental information Continuing operations Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium drinks.
The group produces, markets and distributes a wide range of premium brands, including Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies, Guinness stout, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, Captain Morgan rum, J&B scotch whisky and Tanqueray gin.
In addition, Diageo also owns the distribution rights for the Jos Cuervo tequila brands in the United States and other countries.
Diageo also owns a number of investments in unconsolidated associates, the principal investment being a 34% interest in Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wines subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.
Mot Hennessy is based in France and is a leading producer and exporter of champagne and cognac.
Following the reorganisation in January 2007 of the way in which the business is managed, continuing operations now comprise the following segments: Diageo North America United States and Canada, Diageo Europe all European countries and territories including Russia, Diageo International Africa, Latin America, Caribbean, Global Travel and Middle East, Diageo Asia Pacific Greater China, India, Japan, Korea, South East Asia and Australia, Mot Hennessy and Corporate and other.
The comparative information for prior years has been restated to reflect the current organisation.
