Diageo Annual Review 2007 11 North America Regional highlights The consumer trend to premium drinks continued to grow, offering opportunities for Diageos brand collection 12% Factfile Organic growth in operating profit North America in the region Diageo has a market share of 28% in the United States There are over 200,000 off trade and 65,000 on trade outlets in the United States 2.5bn In the United States today, one in five adults aged between 25 and 34 is foreign born Visitors of www.
com viewed 2.7 million Net sales in the region pages last December alone In North America, Diageo again performed strongly On the digital front, Diageo launched www.
com Completing the offerings in total beverage alcohol, against its own business goals and outperformed the in response to consumer queries for recipes.
The site Diageos wine business continued to perform significantly market.
The consumer trend to premium drinks continued provided consumers with information including drink ahead of a strong wine sector, growing share in the United to grow, offering opportunities for Diageos brand collection.
recipes, tips for throwing a party and general advice.
This growth was driven by a focus on local priority With increased case sales of 3% and further price increases The internets first virtual bartender, Jack, helped brands: Sterling Vintners Collection, Edna Valley Vineyard, taken, North America, which comprised 37% of our to familiarise visitors with the entire collection of Chalone Monterey and a new innovation, A by Acacia.
operating profit, remained an important market for Diageo brands.
Industry recognition US consumers continued to choose imported beer Financial performance of the region is just one way to Brand offerings in North America are managed across offerings and this trend benefited Guinness, Red Stripe, gauge the health of a business.
Another way is recognition all beverage alcohol categories in spirits, beer and wine.
Performance of Guinness in the by suppliers and the industry, which was again achieved Strong marketing programmes and sales execution meant overall beer category was strong and Guinness Draught this year.
In Canada, Diageo received a record four major the business grew in nearly every key product category.
in Bottles realised double-digit growth again this year.
awards from its largest customer, including one for responsible drinking.
In the United States, the business As market leader in spirits in the United States, a Diageo is always looking for ways to expand its business was recognised for the second consecutive year as large superior route to market in combination with marketing through breakthrough ideas and innovation in beverage supplier of the year by Cheers!
Ten brands programmes supporting key brands such as Smirnoff, alcohol.
The innovation strategy was further extended by received recognition for their performance, winning the Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal, Captain Morgan and taking minority stakes in two small companies, Stirrings Hot Brand designation from leading industry information Tanqueray, helped to maintain this position.
and The London Group, creator of Nuvo.
source, Impact Databank, while 12 were recognised by Adams Business Research.
Unique marketing programmes Stirrings is a premium cocktail mixer portfolio.
Nuvo is Johnnie Walker Blue Label made history with the first-ever an ultra premium effervescent blend of fine French vodka, In responsible drinking initiatives, Diageo actively campaign using contemporary art to reinforce this luxury French sparkling wine and exotic fruit nectar launched supported the Federal Trade Commissions We Dont brand.
The centrepiece was the first in a series of works in Miami and New York.
With a distinctive bottle and Serve Teens campaign designed to remind adults about of art featuring Johnnie Walker Blue Label by Warren du pink colour, Nuvo transcends the liqueur category and the consequences of furnishing alcohol to those under Preez and Nick Thornton-Jones, two of Britains leading addresses the popularity of cocktails, wines and blended the legal purchase age.
These stunning and innovative works of liqueurs among women.
art engaged consumers and challenged them to discern Responsible decision-making among NASCAR fans the image: a point that is driven home by the tagline, Diageo considers investments in companies like these to was also encouraged as the Crown Royal Safe Rides For those who know what to look for.
be a logical extension of its innovation strategy and smart Home programme continued in the United States.
The programme offers a safe alternative to drinking Tanqueray continued to see growth this year despite a and driving by providing a free, safe ride home to declining gin category.
This was thanks in large part to spectators and fans.
consumer connections with programmes like T&T Style Sessions and an exciting brand extension, Tanqueray Rangpur.
Made with Rangpur limes, it was launched nationally in March 2007 and continued to augment Tanquerays position as the best selling imported gin in the United States.
A Johnnie Walker Whisky on the rocks and a Manhattan to celebrate their anniversary in Moscow 18 7 years old Johnnie Walker Since: 1820 Johnnie Walker Since: 1820 Origin: Scotland About six bottles of Johnnie Walker are sold every second Johnnie Walker is the most valuable premium spirit brand in the world King George V granted a Royal Warrant to John Walker & Sons in 1933 and it is still an official purveyor to the Royal Household today By 1920 Johnnie Walker was sold in 120 countries making it one of the worlds first global brands www.
com 14 Diageo Annual Review 2007 1 2 Baileys introduced two new flavours for consumers to enjoy, mint chocolate and caramel 3 4 5 12% Johnnie Walker organic net sales growth as a result of price increases, additional investment and a focus on premiumisation 1 Former British Prime Minister 2 Guinness Premiership 3 Diageo hosted a multi-market 4 Johnnie Walkers Keep 5 Smirnoff emphasised its Tony Blair enjoyed a taste marked a second successful employee community initiative Walking global campaign purity through the Clearly of Johnnie Walker while on year of rugby sponsorship continued with a new ad Smirnoff campaign a tour of a packaging plant called Android in Kilmarnock, Scotland
