28 Diageo Annual Review 2007 Summary financial statement The directors have pleasure in presenting to shareholders Summary corporate governance report Statement of the independent auditor to the their summary financial statement for the year ended The company has complied with the provisions set out members of Diageo plc 30 June 2007.
A summary financial statement does in section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate not contain sufficient information to allow as full an Governance and has done so throughout the year We have examined the summary financial statement set understanding of the results and state of affairs of the regarding the Code provisions whose requirements are out on pages 28 to 35. company or group as is provided by the annual report.
of a continuing nature and also with the revised Code The financial statements, a business review, directors published in June 2006 applicable for Diageos financial This statement is made solely to the companys members, report, directors remuneration report and report of the year beginning on 1 July 2007, except that Dr Humer was as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the auditor on the financial statements and auditable part unable to attend the 2006 Annual General Meeting due Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken of the directors remuneration report which is unqualified to an important personal commitment that arose just so that we might state to the companys members and did not include any statements in relation to sections prior to the meeting.
The company values its dialogue those matters we are required to state to them in such 237 s2 and s3 of the Companies Act 1985 are included with both institutional and private investors.
For the benefit a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest in a separate document entitled Annual Report 2007, of private investors, Diageo produces this short-form extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume which is available to shareholders free of charge.
annual review which contains the information believed responsibility to anyone other than the company and to be of most interest to them.
The directors have reviewed the companys members as a body, for our work, for this Summary directors report the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
and risk management for the relevant period.
Business activities and development Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Overviews by the chairman and the chief executive of the A description of the significant ways in which UK The directors are responsible for preparing the summary performance during the year and the future development corporate governance practices differ from those financial statement in accordance with applicable United of the groups business are included at the front of this required of US companies under NYSE listing standards Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our document.
can be found in the investors section of our website, opinion on the consistency of the summary financial www.
statement within the annual review with the full annual Dividends financial statements, directors report, and the directors Diageo paid an interim dividend of 12.55 pence per share Summary directors remuneration report remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant on 10 April 2007.
The directors recommend a final dividend Details of the remuneration policy and of the requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 of 20.15 pence per share.
Subject to approval by members, remuneration of the directors are given in the directors and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the the final dividend will be paid on 22 October 2007 to remuneration report in the annual report, and a summary other information contained in the annual review and shareholders on the register on 14 September 2007.
Payment of this report is set out on pages 33 to 35. the summary financial statement and consider the to US ADR holders will be made on 26 October 2007. implications for our report if we become aware of any A dividend re-investment plan is available in respect of apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with this dividend and the plan notice date is 1 October 2007. the summary financial statement.
Directors Basis of opinion The directors, their responsibilities and memberships We conducted our examination in accordance with of the principal committees are set out on pages 24 Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary and 25.
JR Symonds, CBE will retire by rotation at the financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices AGM and will not seek a further term on the board.
Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the The company announced on 19 July 2007 that Lord Blyths groups full annual financial statements describes the term as chairman has been extended until 30 June 2008, basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
when he will be succeeded by Dr FB Humer.
All the nonexecutive directors are considered independent, except Opinion the chairman Lord Blyth, due to the closer relationship he In our opinion the summary financial statement is has with the company by virtue of his position as chairman.
consistent with the full annual financial statements, directors report and the directors remuneration report Other information of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2007 and For information on share capital structure, voting complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 and other rights, directors appointment, powers and of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made compensation for loss of office and amendment of thereunder.
memorandum and articles of association, please refer to the directors report in the Annual Report which KPMG Audit Plc is incorporated into the summary directors report Chartered Accountants by reference.
Registered Auditor London Annual General Meeting 29 August 2007 The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30pm on Tuesday, 16 October 2007.
