Diageo Annual Review 2007 7 A significant year for Diageo Chief executives review Our global priority brands continued to meet consumer demand around the world while local priority brands supplemented these offerings 1 00m Diageos investment in its scotch whisky business announced earlier this year 9% Diageos organic growth 23m in operating profit The number of cases Smirnoff, the worlds best selling premium spirit, sold this year Diageo has again delivered consistent organic growth This year produced exciting innovations for our business.
We announced an investment of 100 million in with volume up 5%, net sales up 7% and operating profit Some highlights included the introduction of the our scotch whisky business with a new malt distillery, up nearly 9%.
With improved performance against all our ultimate Johnnie Walker Blue Label variant, King George V. expanded grain distilling capacity and increased packaging measurement criteria, we have reinvested in the business Selling at an average price of $400, this luxury drink and warehousing in Scotland.
This planning for the with marketing up 8%, grown our organic operating offered consumers a new way to celebrate a special future will meet the growing consumer demand for margin by 40 basis points and free cash flow to 1,365 occasion.
Baileys flavours found more consumers in more scotch whisky.
Our outstanding collection of whiskies million.
We have achieved this while delivering cash to markets with their mint chocolate and caramel offerings also delivered a significant portion of our profit.
shareholders and our share price hit a new high this year.
while Smirnoff introduced a pre-made cocktail to the We are a business with great offerings for todays United States market allowing consumers to easily enjoy and tomorrows consumer.
We retained our clear position as the worlds leading our Grand Cosmopolitan at home whenever they want.
Our global priority brands We look forward to the future and hope that you will continued to meet consumer demand around the world In terms of our business operations, North America continue to support our business and share in its successes.
while local priority brands supplemented these offerings delivered strong top and bottom line growth, and innovations led our industry in terms of developing International delivered double-digit operating profit new drinks for the future.
growth while Europe improved top line growth in the second half.
In addition, we created a fourth region, While there were many achievements by our brands Asia Pacific, which allowed us to give additional focus this year, strong performance by our scotch whiskies to this growing area.
In doing this, we also added continued to define our business.
One of our major a regional president to our Executive Committee, successes was Johnnie Walker, which was ranked by John Pollaers.
We welcomed John to this position in Paul Walsh Impact Databank as the worlds most valuable premium February and look forward to his contribution to our Chief executive spirit.
The brand also reached sales of over 15 million business in his new role.
cases this year, one of only three brands to do so.
We are fortunate enough to own a second brand in that elite trio, Smirnoff, which is the best selling premium spirit in the world.
And while consumers in existing markets continued to call for brands like these time and again, we also saw opportunity in developing markets such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and Mexico.
Crown Royal Since: 1939 Origin: Canada Made of 50 distinct, full-bodied Canadian whiskies, Crown Royal is aged in white oak barrels Each bottle of Crown Royal is packed in a distinctive purple bag, reflecting its royal heritage and history Crown Royal sells over 4.5 million cases annually, including 1 million in the state of Texas alone Crown Royal is sold primarily in the United States and is the 16th best selling spirit in the world www.
com Crown Royal Since: 1939 Meeting at the local sports bar to cheer on their favourite baseball team and savour Crown Royal in Chicago 68 years old 10 Diageo Annual Review 2007 1 Diageo employees hosted a festive holiday luncheon at an Army Medical Centre 2 3 4 5 9% Organic growth in net sales of Crown Royal, driven by increased marketing support 1 Crown Royal Safe Rides Home 2 Consumers continued to 3 Diageo won 74 medals 4 Johnnie Walker Blue Label 5 Diageo made a minority provided rides home for NASCAR respond to Jos Cuervo Golden at the annual San Francisco used contemporary art to investment in Nuvo, a new ultra fans, promoting responsible Margaritas ready to serve drink World Spirits Competition reinforce the luxury of the brand premium effervescent blend of decision making and getting fine French vodka, French sparkling home safely wine and exotic fruit nectar
