Diageo Annual Review 2007 19 International Regional highlights Success in this year was again driven by Diageos strong scotch whisky collection 19% Factfile Organic growth in operating International profit in the region Our core brands achieved double digit growth this year Five of the top 10 markets for Guinness were in Africa 1.
7bn Johnnie Walker was the leading scotch in Latin America and the Caribbean Red Stripe won the Governor Generals Award Net sales in the region in Jamaica for a seventh consecutive year International is organised into three hubs: Africa, Latin The business in Africa also worked in partnership with The introduction of Johnnie Walker Blue Label, Johnnie America and the Caribbean LAC and Global Travel and governments and industry bodies, to support significant Walker Green Label and Croc provided consumers Middle East GTME.
Favourable economic environments breakthroughs on excise duties in places such as Ghana, seeking luxury-drinking experiences with new offerings.
across most of the region enhanced Diageos business Nigeria and Kenya.
As economic stability continued to spread throughout achievements.
International again delivered strongly Latin America, rising consumer confidence offered with net sales up 18% and operating profit up 19%, Latin America and the Caribbean opportunities for Diageos premiumisation efforts.
Success in Latin America this year was again driven by Diageos strong scotch whisky collection, led by the While Red Stripe has been in decline in its home market Africa number one whisky brand in the world, Johnnie Walker.
of Jamaica, it finished the year in growth.
This resulted in Africa accounts for nearly a third of Diageos net sales part from the introduction of a marketing programme, of beer globally and nearly half of total beer volume.
Growth was the result of the successful use of a range Live Red, to refresh the brand and help maintain its While Guinness was the main brand, it is supported by of premium brands to achieve a broad presence across iconic status.
Red Stripe also maximised its sponsorship local brands including Windhoek, Tusker, Pilsner, Waragi, many consumer motivations and occasions.
Key to of the ICC Cricket World Cup with proprietary World Cup White Cap, Bell Harp and Satzenbrau.
Some of these driving net sales growth has been successfully trading Party events and debuted an innovative, limited-edition brands are produced locally through joint ventures consumers up to more premium variants, thereby driving Red Stripe Cricket World Cup pack.
we have established on the continent during the past mix improvement within Diageos range of scotch brands.
With a recent 20 million investment in the development This delivered sustained growth in the category, adding a of new vineyards in Argentina, Navarro Correas continued Guinness performed strongly in Africa this year.
Nigeria million cases in sales during the year.
Particularly, success to pave the way for ongoing development of a true Latin is now the second best-selling market and the brand can be seen in the continued trend of premiumisation American wine business.
Navarro Correas was the lead grew consistently throughout most of the hub.
In fact, with the largest growth in the super premium segment.
wine brand for market introductions in Colombia, five of Guinness top 10 markets were in Africa.
Brands like Johnnie Walker, Buchanans and Old Parr Venezuela, Peru and Brazil.
offered choice to customers and consumers when they This growth was due in part to the introduction of a new placed their orders.
Global Travel and Middle East advertising and marketing campaign called Guinness Diageos GTME business overcame considerable Greatness.
The campaign was more than just advertising, Johnnie Walker retained its place as the leading scotch disruption caused by security issues and subsequent it was a philosophy that touched everyone.
It was about whisky in LAC with increased marketing investment, restrictive travel measures that were put in place around celebrating everyday moments of inspirational behaviour a new advertising campaign, renewed focus in the world, as well as unrest within the Middle East, the drop of greatness in each of us.
The campaign was on trade execution, a solid communications platform particularly in the Lebanon.
In spite of this, the hub introduced in Ghana, Cameroon, Kenya and Nigeria.
and pioneering responsible drinking programmes built delivered net sales growth of 8%, benefiting from a around successful sports sponsorships.
refocused strategy with significant emphasis on customer Innovation was a key driver of growth in Africa and partnering, sales execution and driving brand visibility.
contributed in a variety of ways this year to meet consumer Buchanan's, which sold over a million cases in this hub, demand.
Whether a lager in Kenya, such as Senator or a further developed consumer interest and support with ready to drink like Smirnoff Storm in South Africa offering a promotion that helped to deliver double-digit growth an alternative to beer, Diageos innovations provided new in core markets such as Colombia, Venezuela, Mexico options for consumers that they continued to choose.
33 years old Relaxing after work singing karaoke, gossiping, and sipping a Baileys in Shanghai Baileys Since: 1974 Origin: Ireland In its first year, Baileys sold 19,000 cases 40,000 cows are needed each day to produce enough cream to make Baileys Baileys has grown volume continuously over its 33-year history Over 2,300 glasses of Baileys are consumed every minute of every day www.
com Baileys Since: 1974 22 Diageo Annual Review 2007 1 2 Diageos state-of-the-art logistics centre in Singapore allows for flexibility and responsiveness in a diverse and growing Asian market 3 4 5 20 Smirnoff made a stylish appearance in Casino Royale with promotion support in over 20 cities 1 Smirnoff Bar 21 visited clubs 2 South Korean employees 3 Ultra premium Johnnie Walker 4 Johnnie Walker encouraged in India, a market growing volunteered at a second-hand Blue Label King George V was new fashion designers with its in consumer sophistication goods shop called Beautiful Store introduced bespoke marketing programme
