Diageo Annual Review 2007 3 Every day, everywhere Chairmans statement A business that consistently produces excellent results and a business that consistently does the right thing 180 Approximate number of markets in which Diageo operates 4 17 Business areas that make up Ranking in the FTSE at Diageos regional focus: North 30 August 2007 when America, Europe, International Diageos preliminary results and the newly organised were announced Asia Pacific This has been a most encouraging year for Diageo, Many corporations, big and small, can point to very Before that I look forward to a further year of Diageo our shareholders, our employees and for all those whose significant community programmes.
Few, however, can reaching new success and achievements.
That will lives are touched by our business.
Our very strong financial match Diageo in the way that those programmes are be accomplished with the continued support of our results and the performance that delivered them are central to the marketing of our products, to the way outstanding employees and our highly successful detailed elsewhere in this Annual Review.
Yet it is we do business and to the sustained commitment of relationships with suppliers, customers and distributors.
appropriate for me to observe that the business climate our employees, customers and distributors to ensure To all of them I offer my grateful thanks for our success in which that performance has been delivered is becoming that our business is conducted responsibly.
in the year covered by this review.
And to you, our increasingly complex and frequently much more testing.
shareholders, I extend those thanks for your continued Guinness and our range of beers including Harp, support of our endeavours.
Diageo trades in more than 180 markets and in almost Tusker and Windhoek are central to our business every one, the dynamic of the debate on alcohol in in Africa.
These products are deeply rooted in the society is different.
We welcome it and we respect the communities where our consumers live, work and differing views it provokes.
We do all we can to contribute celebrate.
As many of these are places facing water by advocating and demonstrating the case for alcohol shortages, Diageo has established a goal of bringing and consumer responsibility.
clean drinking water to a million people.
That commitment to responsible use of alcohol extends Our commitment extends to every aspect of the way much further than simply debating the case for effective we do business.
It is reflected in our determination to Lord Blyth of Rowington and equitable regulation.
We are also actively involved meet the highest standards of probity and transparency.
Chairman in a myriad of programmes and initiatives designed to It is our intention to build a business that is enduring.
A business that consistently produces excellent results and a business that consistently does the right thing.
In North America these include our support for the widely admired activities of The Century Council.
It is 10 years since Diageo was created.
In that time We have also supported legislation for automatic licence our board has developed in strength and diversity.
These measures which automatically Today it brings together business leaders with a truly confiscate the driving licence of adults who buy alcohol global pedigree.
We shall see the latest stage in that for people under 21 have been passed in eight states evolution when on 1 July 2008 I hand the chair of and are an effective deterrent to underage drinking.
Franz has an exceptional Across the world the Johnnie Walker sponsorship of Team record in the leadership of global businesses, including Vodafone McLaren Mercedes in Grand Prix motor racing Glaxo Holdings and Roche.
goes from strength to strength, with a major commitment to responsible drinking at its heart.
For the ICC Cricket World Cup, held in the Caribbean, the Johnnie Walker Know Your Boundaries programme promoted the cause of responsible drinking.
It also offered the prospect of major community support for outstanding achievement.
When South Africas Herschelle Gibbs became the first batsman to hit six sixes in an over during an international match, this triggered a $1 million donation from Diageo to Habitat for Humanity.
