140 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Notes to the company financial statements 1 New accounting policies The accounting policies of the company are consistent with those applied last year.
The company has adopted the following accounting standards in the year: Amendment to FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement The company has adopted the amendment to FRS 26 in respect of financial guarantee contracts and credit insurance in these financial statements.
Where the company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
As a result, adoption of the amendment to FRS 26 has not affected profit after taxation or shareholders funds.
FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosure FRS 29 sets out requirements for disclosures relating to financial instruments and capital and is applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The company chose early adoption of FRS 29 and, as consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
2 Auditor fees Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements of the group provides details of the remuneration of the companys auditor on a group basis.
3 Directors emoluments Full information on directors emoluments, share and other interests, transactions and pension entitlements is included in the directors remuneration report in this Annual Report.
4 Employees 2007 2006 Employees Employees Average number of employees Full time 187 162 Part time 10 11 197 173 2007 2006 million million Aggregate remuneration Wages and salaries 20 19 Share-based incentive plans 5 1 Employers social security 3 4 Other post employment 1 1 29 25 Post employment benefits The Diageo UK group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the company accounts for them as defined contribution plans.
None of the cash contributions to the plans during the year were allocated to the company.
Details of the Diageo pension scheme in the United Kingdom are provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The company recognises liabilities under FRS 17 in respect of other non-pension post employment benefits.
