Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of Dimension Data Holdings plc will be held at Cazenove & Co, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 30 January 2008 to transact the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following ten resolutions, each of which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1.
To receive and adopt the annual financial statements comprising the consolidated financial statements of the Dimension Data Group and the financial statements of Dimension Data Holdings plc incorporated therein, and the reports of the Directors and the auditors for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To declare a final dividend of 1.5 US cents per share, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, payable on 14 March 2008 to the holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 15 February 2008.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To re-elect as Chairman Jeremy John Ord who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as an executive director David Brian Sherriffs who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a non-executive director Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a non-executive director Moses Modidima Ngoasheng who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To elect Leslie Frank Bergman as a non-executive director.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 11.
That the authority conferred on the Directors pursuant to Article 10.2 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot relevant securities be renewed until the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier and for such period without taking into account for this purpose any allotment of relevant securities pursuant to an offer or agreement made prior to such period the Directors shall be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of $1,551,599 or 155,159,900 ordinary shares.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following three resolutions, each of which will be proposed as a special resolution: 12.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 11 above, the authority and power conferred on the Directors pursuant to Article 10.3 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot equity securities wholly for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment, be renewed until the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier, and for such period without taking into account for this purpose any allotment of relevant securities pursuant to an offer or agreement made prior to such period the Directors shall be empowered to allot equity securities wholly for cash pursuant to and within the terms of the authority in Article 10.2 of the Companys Articles of Association: In connection with a rights issue as defined in Article 10.5 of the Companys Articles of Association : and Otherwise than in connection with a Rights Issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of $775,799 or 77,579,900 ordinary shares as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act on the London or Johannesburg Stock Exchanges of ordinary shares of one US cent each in the capital of the Company of up to a total of 77,579,900 shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares, provided that: The maximum number of shares held in treasury will never exceed 5% of the issued share capital of the Company: The maximum price which may be paid for such ordinary shares shall not be more than 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are purchased: 98 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 The minimum price which may be paid for such shares is one US cent per ordinary share: and The authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier except in relation to any purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such date.
That the alterations to the Articles of Association of the Company, as set out in the draft amended Articles of Association as produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Full details of the proposed changes to the Articles of Association are set out in the Explanatory Notes and Appendix to this notice.
By order of the Board ML Taylor Secretary 13 November 2007 NOTES 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for your use if desired.
Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be valid, the enclosed form of proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, must be lodged with Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH in the UK for members registered on the Companys principal register of members or Computershare Investor Services 2004 Proprietary Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 or PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 for members registered on the Companys South African register of members not later than 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 28 January 2008.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders on the register of members as at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 28 January 2008 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that relevant time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 28 January 2008 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall, and cameras, tape or video recorders are not allowed in the meeting hall.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
The total number of issued ordinary shares in the Company on 30 September 2007, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document, is 1,551,599,171.
On a vote by show of hands every member who is present shall have one vote.
On a poll vote every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which he is the holder.
Documents available for inspection the following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa, during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting: Copies of the contracts of service of the directors employed by the Company and of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors: and A marked copy of the Articles of Association showing the differences between the existing Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association.
These documents will also be available for inspection during the Annual General Meeting and for at least fifteen minutes before it begins.
Members may view but not participate in the Annual General Meeting from South Africa via a video link which will be available at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa from 14h45 UK time, 16h45 SA time on 30 January 2008.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 99 Notice of annual general meeting continued EXPLANATORY NOTES The purpose of each of the resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting is as follows: Resolution 1 To receive and adopt the Annual Financial Statements for the financial year which ended on 30 September 2007.
The Chairman will take questions from shareholders after proposing resolution 1.
Resolution 2 Authority to pay dividend The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of 1.5 US cents per share to be paid on 14 March 2008 to shareholders registered on the share register at the close of business on 15 February 2008.
Resolution 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
In line with the Directors Remuneration Regulations 2002 and Section 241A of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is required to put a resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year to shareholders in a general meeting.
The report for the year ended 30 September 2007 is set out on pages 41 to 46 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 4 to 7 Reappointment of Directors These resolutions will be proposed reappointing Jeremy John Ord, David Brian Sherriffs, Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay and Moses Modidima Ngoasheng who retire at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of each of the above directors and the rest of the Board are set out on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report, and other relevant information is contained in the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Resolution 8 Appointment of Director A separate resolution will be proposed appointing Leslie Frank Bergman as a non-executive director.
Biographical details for Leslie Bergman are set out on page 28 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 9 and 10 Auditors Resolution 9 will, if passed, reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company and resolution 10 will authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Company law requires that, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, the Company should appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares This gives Directors the general authority to allot up to 155,159,900 ordinary shares or other relevant securities being an amount approximately equal to one tenth of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 September 2007 exclusive of treasury shares held by the Company.
The Company did not hold treasury shares at 30 September 2007.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise the authority, other than to satisfy share options under the existing share option scheme.
This authority, if given, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April 2009, whichever is earlier.
This resolution will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
Resolution 12 Authority to allot the shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis Shares allotted for cash must normally be first offered to shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
However, resolution 12 renews an existing authority given to the Directors to allot shares or other equity securities for cash to persons other than existing shareholders without first offering them to existing shareholders up to a maximum of the authority granted under resolution 11.
Where the allotment is made otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, the shares allotted shall be up to a maximum of 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 September 2007.
The authority, which will terminate on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April 2009, whichever is earlier, gives the Directors flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities which may arise and the 5% limit ensures that existing shareholder interests are protected.
This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution.
Resolution 13 Purchase of own shares This resolution enables the Company to purchase up to 77,579,900 of its ordinary shares, being 5% of the issued share capital as at 30 September 2007 in the market, either for cancellation, or to hold as treasury shares.
The total number of outstanding options to subscribe for equity shares in the Company at 30 September 2007 is 94,040,491 which represents 6.1% of issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
If the authority to buy back shares is fully exercised, these would represent 6.4% of 100 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
The Directors would only use this authority after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company.
The Directors would only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders.
Resolution 14 Amendment to the Articles of Association The new Articles of Association that are proposed reflect significant amendments to English company law which are being made by the Companies Act 2006.
The changes are being implemented in phases.
Certain changes have already taken effect.
The Directors believe it is in the best interests of the Company to take immediate advantage of these new provisions by amending the Articles of Association as set out in this resolution with effect from the end of this meeting.
The principal changes introduced in the new Articles of Association are summarised in the Appendix.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
The new Articles of Association showing all the changes to the current Articles of Association are available for inspection.
Further changes will be implemented under the Companies Act 2006 which will come into effect at future dates.
The Directors propose that further amendments to the Articles of Association to reflect these further changes will be considered at future Annual General Meetings.
RECOMMENDATION Your Directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
They recommend that you vote in favour of the proposed resolutions.
The Directors intend to vote their own shareholdings in the Company in favour of the proposed resolutions.
ATTENDANCE AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting is being held in London.
Shareholders unable to attend the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
A Proxy Form is enclosed with this Notice.
Details of proxy votes received will be displayed at the meeting, and will be available to shareholders following the meeting.
Should the results of a vote by show of hands at the meeting produce a result that would be materially different to that according to the proxy votes held, a poll will be called.
A video-conference facility to view the meeting in London from South Africa will be set up at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa.
Shareholders attending at the viewing facility will be able to view but will not be able to participate in the meeting.
Immediately following the meeting the Directors present in London will be available via the video-conference facility to answer questions from shareholders attending the South African video-conference.
ACTION TO BE TAKEN You will find enclosed with this document a Proxy Form for use at the Annual General Meeting.
Members who are registered on the principal register of members in the UK and certificated and own name dematerialised shareholders who are registered on the South African register are requested, whether or not they intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting, to complete the Proxy Form in accordance with the instructions printed on it and return it to Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH in the UK for members registered on the Companys principal register of members in the UK or Computershare Investor Services 2004 Proprietary Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 or PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 for members registered on the Companys South African register of members, as soon as possible, but in any event so as to be received not later than 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 28 January 2008.
The return of the completed form will not prevent you from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person, should you so wish.
DEMATERIALISED SHARES IN STRATE ON THE SOUTH AFRICAN REGISTER Members who have dematerialised their Dimension Data shares in Strate must instruct their CSDP or broker of their voting instructions.
Members should contact their CSDP or broker with regard to the cut-off time for receiving their instructions.
If, however, such members wish to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, then they will need to request their CSDP or broker to provide them with the necessary authority in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised shareholder and the CSDP or broker.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 101 Notice of annual general meeting continued APPENDIX EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 1.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The new Articles of Association continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Age of directors on appointment Under the current Articles of Association, any statutory age limit on appointment and election of a director would not apply to the Company.
Since the statutory age limit has been removed by the Companies Act 2006 with effect from April 2007, the provision concerning the statutory age limit has been removed from the new Articles of Association.
Directors indemnities and defence funding The provisions in the current Articles of Association have been clarified to provide that the Company has the power, but not the obligation, to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the indemnifying powers of a company, with effect from October 2007, and the new Articles of Association have been amended to reflect the widening of this scope.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the current Articles of Association dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Votes of members The rights that may be granted to proxies have been expanded under the new Companies Act 2006.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The new Articles of Association reflect all of these new provisions.
Extraordinary resolutions References to extraordinary resolutions have been deleted in the new Articles of Association to prevent confusion, as under the Companies Act 2006 shareholder decisions can only be made by means of an ordinary or special resolution, and the concept of extraordinary resolution will cease to exist.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new Articles of Association, to amend provisions to allow for updated technology and in some areas to conform the language of the new Articles of Association with that used in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
102 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 Form of proxy Dimension Data Holdings plc Incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 with registered number 3704278 Please read this Proxy Form and the notes below before completing this form.
I, hereby appoint: the Chairman of the Meeting or in respect of all of my shares: in respect of shares: and in respect of shares as my proxy ies to attend and speak and vote on my behalf at the Annual General Meeting of Dimension Data Holdings plc to be held at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 30 January 2008 and at any adjournment of it.
Please indicate with an X in the appropriate boxes how you wish the proxy or proxies to vote or if you wish them to abstain from voting.
If you appoint multiple proxies and wish to give them separate instructions to vote or abstain from voting, please indicate how you wish each proxy to vote or abstain from voting by writing in each appropriate box the name of the proxy and the number of shares to be voted or withheld from voting by him or her.
For Against Vote withheld Ordinary resolutions 1.
To receive and adopt the annual financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To approve the declaration and payment of a dividend of 1.5 US cents per share.
To elect as a non-executive director Leslie Frank Bergman.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting.
To renew the Directors authority and power to allot securities in accordance with Article 10.2 of the Articles of Association of the Company until the period ending on the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier.
To renew the Directors authority and power to allot securities in accordance with Article 10.3 of the Articles of Association of the Company until the period ending on the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier.
To authorise the Company to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 on the London or Johannesburg Stock Exchanges of ordinary shares of one US cent each in the capital of the Company of up to a total of 77,579,900 shares, which may be held by the Company as treasury shares.
To alter the Articles of Association of the Company.
Signed Date Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 NOTES The proxy or proxies are to vote as instructed in respect of the resolutions specified above.
In the absence of instructions the proxy or proxies may vote or abstain from voting the shares with respect to which he or she has been appointed as he or she thinks fit on both: The resolutions specified above: and Unless instructed otherwise, on any other business including amendments to resolutions which may come before the Annual General Meeting.
The vote withheld option is to allow you to instruct your proxy or proxies to abstain from voting on any of the specified resolutions.
Please note that an abstention has no legal effect and will not be counted in the votes For or Against a resolution.
Any alterations to this Proxy Form should be initialled.
If you complete and return the Proxy Form this will not prevent you from attending in person and voting at the Meeting should you subsequently decide to do so.
When you have completed and signed this form, please return it to the relevant address.
To be valid the Proxy Form or other instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the relevant address no later than 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 28 January 2008.
If you cannot attend the Annual General Meeting, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting.
If you want to appoint a proxy please complete, sign and return the Proxy Form above after carefully reading the Proxy Form and the instructions below.
You can appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or anyone else to be your proxy at the Annual General Meeting.
You can also, if you wish, appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by you.
To appoint the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all of your shares insert your name at the top of the form and fill in any voting instructions and sign and date the Proxy Form, but leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
To appoint a single proxy in respect of all your shares other than the Chairman, cross out only the words the Chairman of the Meeting and insert the name and address of your proxy who need not be a member of the Company.
Then complete the rest of the Proxy Form, but leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
To appoint more than one proxy: Cross out the words the Chairman of the Meeting in respect of all of my shares: Fill in the names and addresses of each of your proxies in the blanks provided.
If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies you can just write the Chairman of the Meeting: and Make sure that for each proxy appointed in this way you fill in, alongside the proxys details, the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed.
The Proxy Form gives your proxy or proxies full rights to attend, speak and vote.
If you wish to restrict the rights of your proxies please cross out either or both of the words speak or vote as you feel appropriate where indicated by an asterisk.
If the Proxy Form is signed by someone else on your behalf, their authority to sign must be returned with the Proxy Form.
In the case of a joint holding, any holder may sign.
If the shareholder is a corporation, the form must be executed under its common seal or signed by an officer, attorney or other person duly authorised by the corporation.
To be entitled to vote at the meeting and for the purpose of determining the number of votes you may cast, you must be entered on the Companys register of members at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 28 January 2008 or, if the meeting is adjourned, you must be entered on the register not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, with explanatory notes, are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting at pages 98 to 102 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 Contacts and corporate information DIMENSION DATA HOLDINGS PLC UK TRANSFER SECRETARIES Incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Computershare Investor Services PLC Act 1985 with registered number 3704278 PO Box 82, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Registered as an external company in the Republic of Bristol BS99 7NH South Africa with registration number 2000 009053 10 United Kingdom COMPANY SECRETARY SOUTH AFRICAN TRANSFER SECRETARIES ML Taylor Computershare Investor Services 2004 Pty Limited michelle.
com 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001, South Africa REGISTERED OFFICE PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 Fleet Place House 2 Fleet Place SOUTH AFRICAN LEGAL ADVISERS London EC4M 7RT Routledge Modise United Kingdom 22 Fredman Drive Sandton, South Africa HEAD OFFICE The Wanderers UK LEGAL ADVISERS The Campus Linklaters & Alliance 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston One Silk Street Sandton 2191, South Africa London EC2Y 8HQ Telephone: 27 11 575 0000 United Kingdom Postal Address INVESTOR RELATIONS Private Bag X127 Bryanston 2021, South Africa Karen Cramr karen.
com AUDITORS Telephone: 44 20 7651 7000 Deloitte & Touche LLP London DIMENSION DATA WEBSITE United Kingdom www.
com REGIONAL HEAD OFFICE CONTACT DETAILS Americas One Penn Plaza, Suite 1600, New York, NY 10119 Tel: 1 212 613 1220 Fax: 1 212 563 7279 Asia 6 Temasek Boulevard, #26-01 05 Suntec Tower Four, Singapore 038986 Tel: 65 6322 6688 Fax: 65 6323 7933 trading as Datacraft Asia Limited Australia 121-127 Harrington Street, The Rocks, NSW 2000 Australia Tel: 61 0 2 8249 5000 Fax: 61 0 2 8249 5369 Europe Dimension Data House, Building 2, Waterfront Business Park Fleet Road, Fleet, Hampshire GU51 3QT, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1252 779000 Fax: 44 0 1252 779010 Middle East and Africa The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, 2191, South Africa Tel: 27 0 11 575 0000 Fax: 27 0 11 576 0000 www.
