Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS.
The directors consider that the underlying performance measures, together with the associated income statement presentation, provide additional useful information for shareholders on underlying performance of the business, and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
It is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit measures used by other companies.
Such measures exclude the amortisation of acquired intangibles, exceptional asset impairments, net restructuring charges and other one-off items, profit on sale of investments, fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to control the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which power to control passes.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting from the date on which the power to exercise significant influence passes.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Revenue Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales taxes.
Revenue from sales of goods is recognised at the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer and is stated net of returns.
Revenue earned from customer support agreements is recognised as such over the life of the agreement by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
1.4 Non-operating income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established.
1.5 Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which represents a significant separate line of business which has been sold.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier if beneficial title and risk has transferred to the purchaser and in the case of a business acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal, on the date of acquisition.
1.6 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
The determination of the classification of property leases is made by reference to the land and buildings elements separately.
All leases not classified as finance leases are operating leases.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease and depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease term if shorter.
The corresponding obligation to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
DSG international plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
