Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Registered office Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG.
com Registrars and transfer office Capita IRG plc, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0LA Tel: 0870 162 3100. www.
com Joint brokers Citigroup Global Markets, JP Morgan Cazenove Shareholder enquiries Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet.
The web address for our Registrars site is shown above.
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
So that the system can validate enquiries an Investor Code is required.
This is a numerical account number shown on your share certificate and dividend tax counterfoil.
Share dealing service On-line and telephone share dealing services are available through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple to use services.
There is no need to pre-register and the facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor Code see above as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the online dealing service are available on www.
com and the telephone dealing service is on 0870 458 4577.
Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Details are available from Cazenove.
Tel: 020 7155 5328. Dividend mandate If you wish your dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form or download one from the Registrars website shown above.
This method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the dividend payment date.
Completed mandate forms should be received by the Registrars by 24 August 2007. Dividend payments made in foreign currencies Our Registrars are now able to convert dividends to certain foreign currencies payable through the BACS system only.
More details are available by contacting the Registrars on 44 0 20 8639 3405 or by visiting their website www.
com international 126 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Shareholder Information CREST The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST is a voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in this way can opt to receive their dividends through the CREST system.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged to make its share register available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7ER or register on their website at www.
uk ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift internet site, www.
Financial calendar Final dividend record date 24 August 2007 Annual general meeting 5 September 2007 Payment of final dividend 28 September 2007 2007 08 interim results announcement 28 November 2007 Payment of 2007 08 interim dividend February 2008 DSG international plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
