Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements a Accounting policies The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK GAAP accounting standards.
i Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative financial instruments to fair value.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: ii Operating leases Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
iii Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
This fair value is expensed in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest as adjusted for any non-market conditions.
A liability equal to the portion of services received from employees is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
iv Translation of foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
v Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment or estimated loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The rates used are: 1 3 per cent per annum.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 10 per cent and 33 vi Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
Short term investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with the exception of assets held to maturity, which are stated at cost net of amortised premium or discount.
vii Taxation Current taxation Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted for any tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings, unless the distribution of such earnings has been accrued in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
DSG international plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued a Accounting policies continued viii Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Transaction costs are amortised through the income statement using the effective interest method and the unamortised balance is included as part of the related borrowing at the balance sheet date.
A fair value adjustment is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting has been applied.
ix Post retirement benefits The expected cost of providing pensions under the defined benefit pension scheme arrangements, as calculated periodically by qualified actuaries, is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll.
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined benefit section to individual companies, on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore, following full implementation of FRS 17, the Company has accounted for its contributions to the defined benefit section of the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The Companys contributions to the defined contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis as they become payable.
x Derivative financial instruments derivatives Derivatives are classified as current assets or liabilities when they are deemed to be held for trading.
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities where a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining maturity of the hedged item is greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Fair values are derived from market values.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge these risks.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Company formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting is dependent on how they are designated.
The designations and accounting treatments applicable to the Company are explained below: 118 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
