Consolidated Financial Statements 34 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of directors and key management personnel The remuneration of non-executive directors, executive directors, and members of the Group Executive Committee, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below.
Further information about individual directors remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, is given in the parts of the directors Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited.
2007 2006 million million Short term employee benefits 4.0 3.8 Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Termination benefits 0.1 Share-based payment 1.0 1.1 35 Principal subsidiary undertakings The directors consider that to give full particulars of all group undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of group undertakings is attached to the latest annual return.
The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the consolidated financial statements of the Group at 28 April 2007: Coverplan Insurance Services Limited El-Giganten AS Denmark 1 DSG international Holdings Limited Elkjp Nordic AS Norway DSG international Insurance Services Limited Isle of Man FotoVista S. A. France 76.9% DSG Retail Ireland Limited Ireland Gigantti OY Finland DSG Retail Limited Markantalo OY Finland - Electro World Magyarorszg Kereskedelmi Es Szolgltat Kft Hungary PC City Spain S. A. U. Spain Electro World s. r. o. Czech Republic P. Kotsovolos S. A. Greece 79.1% Electro World Polska sp.
o. Poland UniEuro S. p. A. Italy El-Giganten AB Sweden 1 A direct subsidiary undertaking of DSG international plc and a holding company.
Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are engaged in retail activities and are wholly owned and incorporated in Great Britain.
All group undertakings operate in their country of incorporation.
36 Post balance sheet events On 24 May 2007, following the exercise of a put option by Fourlis Holding SA, the main minority shareholder of Kotsovolos, the Group acquired a further 10 per cent in Kotsovolos for a cash consideration of 22.9 million 15.6 million.
The acquisition increases the Groups total interest in Kotsovolos to 89.1 per cent.
In 2004 05, a co-operation agreement was entered into by the Group with Eldorado Group Eldorado granting the Group the option to acquire Eldorado in tranches up to 100 per cent by 2011.
On 19 June 2007, the directors notified Eldorado that the Group was terminating this option arrangement.
Details of the dividends proposed but awaiting approval and relating to the current financial period are shown in note 24.
DSG international plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
