Business and Financial Review Key Financials and Developments John Clare CBE Kevin OByrne Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director and Head of Computing Division Total Group sales up 14 per cent to 7,929.7 million 2005 06 6,984.4 million.
1 Group like for like sales up 4 per cent.
International sales now represent 41 per cent of total Group sales.
Internet sales now represent 10 per cent of total Group sales, up from 3 per cent in the previous year.
2 Underlying pre-tax profit 295.1 million 2005 06 311.0 million.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 10.9 pence 2005 06 11.8 pence.
3 Group target of zero paid days stock achieved on average across the year.
Cost savings of 25 million delivered during the period.
Proposed final dividend of 6.85 pence, making total dividends for the period of 8.87 pence per share, an increase of 5 per cent.
50 million special contribution made to the pension scheme.
Decision not to proceed with the option to acquire any interest in Eldorado.
100 million share buy back programme initiated.
Retirement of John Clare and appointment of John Browett as Group Chief Executive.
For the first time, the Czech Republic and Spain profitable for the full year.
Initial benefits of Group buying initiatives delivering margin improvement in Currys.
Successful transition of Dixons into pure play e-tailer with sales growth of 182 per cent in its first year.
Acquisition of majority interest in FotoVista, serving e-tailing operations across 26 countries, driving focus on e-tailing.
Closure of PC City stores in France.
Early success of The TechGuys following its launch: PC advice clinics rebranded under The TechGuys.
Major restructuring programme in Italy completed.
Sale of The Link stores and Genesis Communications.
UK store colleague reward system enhanced with rewards based on team performance replacing personal sales commissions.
Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
10 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
