Page 79 Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent company financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Aga Foodservice Group plc for the year ended 31 December Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 2007 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, related notes 1 to 16.
These parent company financial of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies parent company financial statements and the part of the set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company We have reported separately on the Group financial statements financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies of Aga Foodservice Group plc for the year ended 31 December are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently 2007. applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act information and explanations which we considered necessary 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give state to the Company's members those matters we are required reasonable assurance that the parent company financial to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other statements and the part of the remuneration report to be purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information in the parent company financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Opinion the remuneration report and the parent company financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted directors responsibilities.
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 December 2007: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be the parent company financial statements and the part of the audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory remuneration report to be audited have been properly requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Ireland.
the information given in the directors' report is consistent We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent with the parent company financial statements.
company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly Ernst & Young LLP prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Registered Auditor report to you whether in our opinion the information given in Birmingham the parent company directors' report is consistent with the 14th March 2008 financial statements.
The information given in the directors' report includes that specific information presented in the operating and financial review that is cross referred from the business review section of the directors' report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans introduction, the chief executives review and the corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 80 Main addresses and advisers Head office and registered office Financial advisers and stockbrokers 4 Arleston Way Dresdner Kleinwort Limited Shirley Citigroup Global Markets Limited Solihull West Midlands Registrars B90 4LH Equiniti Telephone: 00 44 0 121 711 6000 Aspect House Fax: 00 44 0 121 711 6001 Spencer Road E-mail: : info@agafoodservice.
com West Sussex BN99 6DA Registered in England No 354715 Telephone Helpline : 0871 384 2355 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony Auditors providers costs may vary.
Ernst & Young LLP International Helpline : 00 44 121 415 7047 Shareholder information At 31st December 2007, the Company had 7,228 ordinary shareholders 2006: 7,646.
2008 financial calendar Record date for final ordinary dividend 25th April 2008 Annual General Meeting 9th May 2008 Final ordinary dividend payable 30th May 2008 Record date for interim ordinary dividend 7th November 2008 Interim ordinary dividend payable 3rd December 2008 Return of cash expected timetable Record time date for consolidation of existing ordinary shares and entitlement to B C shares 9th May 2008 6pm New ordinary shares admitted to Official List and to trading 12th May 2008 8am Fractional entitlement payable 22nd May 2008 B C share capital and dividend alternative payable 29th May 2008 AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
