Glossary Ancillary services Services provided by National Grid used for balancing supply and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits.
They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Availability Average percentage of time the units were available for generation.
Average achieved price Power revenues divided by volume of net sales includes imbalance charges.
Average capture price Revenue derived from bilateral contracts divided by volume of net merchant sales.
Balancing Mechanism The period during which the System Operator can call upon additional generation consumption or reduce generation consumption, through market participants bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
Baseload Running 24 hours per day, seven days per week remaining permanently synchronised to the system.
Bilateral contracts Contract with counterparties and power exchange trades.
Dark green spread The difference between the price available in the market for sales of electricity and the marginal cost of production being the cost of coal and other fuels including C02 emissions allowances.
EBITDA Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptional items and unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts.
ESIP The Drax Group plc Restricted Share Plan, also known as the Drax Group plc Executive Share Incentive Plan.
EU ETS The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a mechanism policy introduced across the EU to reduce emissions of CO2: the scheme is capable of being extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
Forced Outage Any reduction in plant availability excluding planned outages.
Forced Outage Rate The capacity which is not available due to forced outages or restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity, less planned outage capacity.
Frequency Response Service Services purchased by The National Grid Company used to maintain system frequency.
Group Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
Evidence of Climate Change Levy exempt electricity supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
Load factor Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales.
Net Balancing Mechanism Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
Net merchant sales Net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts and power exchange trades.
Net sales The aggregate of net merchant sales and net Balancing Mechanism.
95 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Glossary continued Occupational health and The OHSAS specification gives requirements for an occupational health and safety safety assessment series OH&S management system, to enable an organisation to control its OH&S risks and OHSAS improve its performance.
Planned Outage A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the budget set at the outset of the year.
Planned Outage Rate The capacity not available due to planned outages expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity.
Power exchange trades Power sales or purchases transacted on the APX UK power trading platform.
Power revenues The aggregate of bilateral contracts and Balancing Mechanism income expense.
Refinancing and listing The financial restructuring of the Group effective on 15 December 2005 resulting in the creation of a new holding company, Drax Group plc.
Pursuant to the schemes of arrangement under which the Refinancing and listing was implemented, the existing debt of the Group was settled partially through the issue of new debt and partially through the issue of ordinary shares in Drax Group plc.
Also, on 15 December 2005, Drax Group plc was introduced to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and its ordinary shares commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Under the current regime, one ROC is issued to eligible generators for every MWh of electricity generated from renewable sources.
SAYE Plan The Drax Group plc Approved Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
SIP The Drax Group plc Approved Share Incentive Plan.
Summer The calendar months April to September.
Summer baseload market close Market price on the last day that the season was traded as a product.
Technical Availability Total availability after planned and forced outages.
TXU TXU Europe Energy Trading Limited in administration and subject to a company voluntary arrangement.
TXU Claim The claim issued by the Group, ultimately agreed by the Administrators of TXU at approximately 336.0 million excluding VAT in respect of unpaid power purchased by TXU and liquidated damages under the TXU Contract.
TXU Contract A 15 year power purchase agreement with TXU.
UK NAP UK National Allocation Plan.
Winter The calendar months October to March.
Winter baseload market close Market price on the last day that the season was traded as a product.
96 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Principal performance indicators and Contents summary of operational achievements during 2007 Statements Principal performance indicators and summary of operational achievements during 2007 ifc Company profile 01 Chairmans introduction 02 Business review Chief Executives review 04 Business and financial review 14 Corporate and social responsibility review 24 Shareholder information 91 Company information, professional advisers and service providers 94 Total revenue Trading highlight Glossary 95 Governance 1,247 million 2006: 1,387 million Board of directors 32 Directors report 34 Read more: page 14 Corporate governance 38 Audit Committee report 42 Nominations Committee report 45 Average achieved price of electricity Remuneration Committee report 46 45.3 per MWh Group Independent auditors report 54 2006: 48.9 per MWh Company Independent auditors report 86 Read more: page 17 Financials Through diversifying and optimising our fuel sourcing Consolidated income statements 56 we now have the capability to burn a wide range of coals, a variety of biomass materials and petcoke.
Consolidated statements of Net sales recognised income and expense 57 Consolidated balance sheets 58 24.9TWh 2006: 25.2TWh Consolidated cash ow statements 59 Production highlight Notes to the consolidated financial statements 60 Read more: page 14 Company balance sheets 87 Notes to the Company balance sheets 88 1 Gross profit 701 million 2006: 746 million Read more: page 14 2 EBITDA Throughout the year we maintained our focus on 506 million achieving leading performances in health and safety, 2006: 583 million environmental compliance and plant reliability.
Read more: page 15 Investment highlight Health and safety 0.34 lost time injury rate 2006: 0.08 Read more: page 29 3 Design and production: Plant availability Radley Yeldar www.
com 86% Photograhy: 2006: 90% Marcus Ginns Read more: page 18 We have made good progress on our two major Print: carbon abatement investment projects which when Granite both complete will save over three million tonnes We are committed to caring for the environment and Load factor of CO2 per annum.
looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
This report is printed on Challenger Laser Matt 75% which has good environmental accreditations.
It is ECF 2006: 76% Elemental Chlorine Free and is produced at a mill that operates a strict sustainable forestry programme and Read more: page 18 has ISO 9001 and ISO 140001 certification.
ISO 9001 This is the internationally recognised standard for the quality management of businesses.
It applies to the processes that create and control the products and services an organisation supplies.
Notes: It prescribes systematic control of activities to ensure 1 Gross profit is dened as total revenues less total fuel costs of 546 million 2006: 641 million.
that the needs and expectations of customers are met.
2 EBITDA is profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental exceptional items and unrealised gains on derivative contracts.
management system against which an organisation can 3 In 2007, two units underwent major planned outages, whilst in be certified by a third party.
2006 only one unit underwent a major planned outage.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Drax Group plc Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Annual report and accounts 2007 PO Box 3 Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PQ Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
