Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial Substantial Shareholders statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2007.
The Directors At 27 June 2007, the Company has been informed of the following statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, as required by notiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital: Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, is on page 50.
Ordinary shares held % AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 50,990,453 12.97% Principal Activities and Business Review Schroder Investment Management Ltd 29,048,988 7.38% The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during 2006 07, was engaged in the production of corrugated and plastic Prudential Plc group of companies 22,748,186 5.78% packaging and of paper, from recycled waste, and the distribution of ofce Sparinvest Holdings A S 19,992,238 5.08% products.
A full review of the activities during the financial year ended Legal & General Plc 14,711,546 3.74% 30 April 2007 and future developments is given in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Business Review on pages 4 to 37.
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 33 on page 92.
Acquisitions and Disposals There were no material acquisitions or disposals during 2006 07.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Business Review on pages 15 to 37, which are incorporated Research and Development in this report by reference.
The Business Review has been prepared to The Group recognises the importance of continuing to invest in research meet the requirements for companies to provide an enhanced Business and development.
It is Group policy to develop new product specications Review in accordance with the March 2005 amendments to the UKs commensurate with environmental needs and packaging solutions required 1985 Companies Act.
Research is also conducted into ways to improve product quality and to nd more cost-efficient methods of production and Cautionary Statement distribution.
Research and development is conducted within divisional The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members operations and expenditure is not significant.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial Directors condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty The biographies of the present Directors are on page 8.
All the Directors since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments served throughout the year except as follows.
Mr A P Hichens, who had to differ from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be served as Chairman since September 1999, retired from the Board at the construed as a profit forecast.
end of December 2006, having reached the age of 70.
Mr P M Johnson, who has been a non-Executive Director of the Company since December Results for the Year 1999, became Chairman on 1 January 2007.
Mr P J C Mellier was The financial results are shown on pages 54 to 98. appointed as a non-Executive Director of the Company on 7 September 2006.
Mr J P Loison retired from the Board on 30 September 2006.
Dividends Mr D R Piette retired from the Board on 30 May 2007.
Other than as An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary share was paid on previously disclosed in this Report and in respect of existing service 6 March 2007 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.0p agreements, no Director, either during or at the end of the financial year, net per ordinary share, making a total dividend to be paid for the has been materially interested in any significant contract or arrangement year of 8.6p 2005 06: 8.4p net per ordinary share.
Subject to in relation to the Groups business.
approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 September 2007, the final dividend will be paid on 18 September 2007 Re-election of Directors to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 August 2007.
The Articles of Association require that all Directors who are subject to The dividends per ordinary share stated above are those actually paid retirement by rotation retire every three years, but they are eligible to or to be paid.
Historical dividends per share have been restated for the submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
The Directors retiring bonus element inherent in the 26 March 2004 rights issue in the Five-Year by rotation at the Annual General Meeting on 5 September 2007 are Financial Summary on page 99.
Mr R G Beeston, Mr C J Bunker, and Mr A D Thorne but, being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election at the Meeting.
Mr P J C Mellier has Share Capital been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting and Pursuant to the Companys employee share option schemes, 2,277,340 in accordance with the Articles, retires from ofce at the Meeting and, ordinary shares of 10p each were issued during the year.
No shares being eligible, offers himself for election.
Following formal performance pursuant to the Companys employee share option schemes were issued evaluation, the individual performance of the Directors offering themselves between 30 April 2007 and 27 June 2007 inclusive.
The Company has for re-election and election continues to be effective and they continue to not utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares granted to it demonstrate commitment to the role.
at the 2006 Annual General Meeting but will be seeking to renew such authority at this years Meeting.
48 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 Directors Interests in Shares Management Limited, Majedie Asset Management Limited, Pacic The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary Investment Management Company and Barclays Global Investors Limited.
shares of 10p each of the Company, including options granted but not The dened contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering yet exercised under the Executive Share Option Schemes, Restricted members a range of investments with AXA Sun Life plc and external Share Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan, were as shown in the tables investment fund managers, selected by the Schemes trustees.
The Group on pages 45 and 46. personal pension plan is a contract-based arrangement offering members a range of investments with Norwich Union Life and external investment Directors Indemnities fund managers, and the Stakeholder arrangement is provided through The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements Investment Solutions Limited.
All such assets are held independently from for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the the Group.
The trustees of each pension scheme send an Annual Report requirements of the Companies Act 1985. to the members of that scheme.
The Trustee Company of the merged dened benefit scheme has an Investment Sub Committee, which has been Employee Involvement and Communications established in line with guidelines recommended in the Myners Report.
The Group is committed to effective employee communications to promote the understanding and involvement of all its employees in the Groups Health and Safety business objectives and performance.
Communications and personnel The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote all policies have been developed to reect the philosophy of operating aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees and members management.
Information is regularly communicated by briengs and of the public.
A Health and Safety Policy Statement has been approved newsletters.
The Group operates a European Works Council, with by the Board.
representatives drawn from across the entire workforce in the EU countries in which the Group operates.
Meetings are held to provide an exchange Payment to Suppliers of transnational information and consultation with employees.
At each Although the Company does not follow any formal code or standard on meeting, presentations are made on the Groups business strategy, financial payment practice, the Company agrees terms and conditions in the UK results, health and safety and environmental performance.
The Group also with each supplier, which include terms of payment.
The Company pays has a number of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote each supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms and conditions of the information exchange, consultation and representation between the Group order being satisfied by such supplier.
The aggregate amount owed by and its workforce.
Business decisions concerning capital investment, the Company to trade creditors at 30 April 2007 was equivalent to employment and training take into account the Groups public and local 36 days of purchases invoiced by suppliers during the year.
The Group supports the involvement of its operations in local community activities.
Charitable and Political Donations The Group contributed 71,000 2005 06: 84,000 to charities in the Equal Opportunities UK.
No payments were made to political parties.
Donations were made The Group wholeheartedly supports the principle and achievement of by operating divisions to support their local communities.
The Group also equal opportunities in employment and its policies are designed to provide supported a number of other charities across a range of causes.
such equality irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Every possible step will be taken to ensure Annual General Meeting that individuals are treated equally and fairly.
Depending upon their skills The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held and abilities, the Group applies the same criteria to disabled persons as it on 5 September 2007, together with explanations of the Resolutions to does to other employees and, if necessary, retraining is offered to any of be proposed, appears at the back of this Annual Report.
its employees who develop a disability during such employment.
Auditors Pension Fund During the year under review, KPMG Audit Plc resigned as auditors of The Group had, in the year under review, five UK pension arrangements: the Company and Deloitte & Touche LLP were appointed to ll the casual two dened benefit schemes which are closed to new entrants, one vacancy.
Resolutions to appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the dened contribution scheme, one Group personal pension plan and Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration a statutory Stakeholder arrangement.
The dened contribution scheme was will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
introduced for UK employees joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005.
By Order of the Board With effect from 30 April 2007, the two dened benefit schemes were merged into one scheme.
Carolyn Cattermole Secretary The investments of the assets of the dened benefit scheme are managed on a discretionary basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional Investment 27 June 2007 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 49 Directors Report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the for the Company financial statements, assert whether applicable UK Annual Report and the Financial Statements Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is law and regulations.
inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company in business.
financial statements for each financial year.
They are required to prepare The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the EU: they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Standards.
They have general responsibility for taking The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS, as adopted such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the by the EU, to present fairly the financial position, financial performance Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under and cash ows of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act preparing a Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Each Director confirms that: Directors are required to: a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Companys auditors are unaware: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: b he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in for the Group financial statements, assert whether these have been order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
50 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 Financial Statements and Five-Year Financial Summary DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 51
