Notice of Annual General Meeting 2007 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will b the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities within Section be held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN, 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did on Wednesday 5 September 2007 at 12 noon to consider and, if thought not apply: fit, pass the following resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 11 will be c the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 will be with a rights issue and paragraph b above shall be limited to the proposed as special resolutions.
allotment of equity securities having a maximum nominal amount of 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the Auditors Report and 1,966,011: financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2007. d these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General 2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
Meeting to be held in 2008 or, if earlier, 4 December 2008 save that the Company shall be entitled under such authorities to honour at any 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary shares 4 To re-elect Mr R G Beeston as a Director of the Company.
which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority: and 5 To re-elect Mr C J Bunker as a Director of the Company.
e all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 6 To re-elect Mr A D Thorne as a Director of the Company.
7 To elect Mr P J C Mellier as a Director of the Company.
13 That in accordance with article 11 of the Articles of Association of the 8 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold Company and the Companies Act 1985, the Company is generally office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the are to be laid before the Company.
meaning of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company in such manner and on such terms as the 9 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Directors may from time to time determine provided that: 10 That: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be a pursuant to paragraph 10 2 of Schedule 5 of the Companies Act purchased is 39,320,213 ordinary shares: 2006, and without prejudice to the existing provisions of the Articles b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share of Association of the Company, the Company may send or supply is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : documents or information to members by making them available on the Companys website: and c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market b the Company may use electronic means within the meaning of quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules Sourcebook published Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately by the Financial Services Authority to convey information to members.
preceding the date of any such purchase and the amount stipulated 11 That: by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and a in accordance with article 6 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, to a maximum nominal amount of 11,009,660: revoked or renewed, expire on 4 December 2008 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General that the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any Meeting to be held in 2008 or, if earlier, 4 December 2008 save that time before the expiry thereof any contract to purchase its ordinary the Company shall be entitled under such authority to honour at any shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary shares expiry of such authority.
which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority: and By Order of the Board c all previous authorities under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Carolyn Cattermole be revoked.
Secretary 12 That: 4-16 Artillery Row a in accordance with article 7 of the Articles of Association of the London SW1P 1RZ Company, the Directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: 19 July 2007 100 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 Notes The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the i Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Company as at 6 pm on 3 September 2007 shall be entitled to attend Securities Regulations 2001. and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered v Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at in their names at that time.
the Registered Office and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One ii A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to Bishops Square, London E1 6AO during normal business hours and appoint one or more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead at the place of the Meeting from 11.45 am until its conclusion: of him.
A Proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
a Service contracts of the Executive Directors: iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the b Letters of appointment of the Chairman and the non-Executive Registrars at the address shown on the Form not later than 48 hours before Directors: and the time of the Meeting.
Completion and return of the Form will not, however, prevent a Member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
iv CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the vi The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting will be available to answer relevant questions at the Meeting.
to be held on 5 September 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Explanatory notes on the resolutions Members or other CREST sponsored Members, and those CREST Members Resolution 1: who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their Report and financial statements CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the the appropriate action on their behalf.
Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2007.
These are contained in the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST Annual Report.
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Resolution 2: CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required Declaration of a final dividend for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, shareholders will amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final dividend recommended must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the by the Directors is 6.0p net per ordinary share.
issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy Resolution 3: appointments specified in iii above.
For this purpose, the time of Approval of Report on Remuneration receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which shareholder approval is sought for the Report on Remuneration set out the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST on pages 41 to 47. in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be Resolutions 4 7: communicated to the appointee through other means.
Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors retire CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting at least once every three years but are eligible to submit themselves for service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal re-election by the shareholders.
The Directors who retire at each Annual system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the General Meeting are those who would otherwise have served for over input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST three years without re-election by the date of the following Annual Member concerned to take or, if the CREST Member is a CREST General Meeting.
personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed a voting Mr Beeston, Mr Bunker and Mr Thorne will retire and, being eligible, service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service offer themselves for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a Mr Beeston is the Senior Independent non-Executive Director, Chairman of message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination and Audit time.
In this connection, CREST Members and, where applicable, their Committees.
Mr Bunker is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Thorne is a member of the General to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 101 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2007 continued The Articles of Association of the Company require that a Director Meeting, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting shall be subject shares in the Company without the prior consent of shareholders for a to election by the shareholders.
Mr Mellier was appointed Director with period of five years.
Resolution 11, which will be proposed as an ordinary effect from 7 September 2006 and, in accordance with the Articles, he resolution, will, if passed, give the Directors renewed authority to allot retires from office at the Meeting.
He is a member of the Remuneration shares up to a maximum nominal value of 11,009,660 representing Committee.
Being eligible he offers himself for election.
28% of the issued share capital of the Company at 27 June 2007.
A biography of each Director, including those seeking re-election, appears Other than in connection with any exercise of options under the Groups on page 8 of the Annual Report.
employee share option schemes, the Directors have no present intention of exercising the allotment authority proposed by this Resolution.
This authority Resolutions 8 and 9: will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if Re-appointment of Auditors earlier, on 4 December 2008, except in so far as commitments to allot The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting shares have been entered into before that date.
It is the present intention at which accounts are presented.
During the year under review KPMG of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Audit Plc resigned as Auditors to the Company and Deloitte & Touche LLP were appointed to fill the casual vacancy.
Special notice of the resolution Resolution 12: proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP until the next Annual Directors power to disapply pre-emption rights General Meeting has been received by the Company in accordance with This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, supplements the Companies Act 1985.
Resolution 9 gives authority to the Directors to the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company proposed by determine the Auditors remuneration.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires a company proposing to allot equity securities for cash to offer them first to existing Resolution 10: shareholders pro rata to their existing shareholdings.
Authority was granted Electronic Communications to the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting and the Directors In January 2007, certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and propose to seek shareholders approval to renew this authority, pursuant the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Sourcebook, which govern to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot such securities, communications in electronic form between the Company and its notwithstanding the requirement imposed by Section 89, in two cases: shareholders, came into force.
in connection with a rights issue: and One of the key changes to the existing regime made by the new legislation is that a company may, as a default method of communicating with allotments of shares for cash up to a total nominal value of 1,966,011 shareholders, use electronic and or website communications to send or representing 5% of the Companys issued share capital at 27 June 2007 supply documents or information to its shareholders.
In the case of website although it is not intended without prior consultation with the investment communications, the legislation requires that a company must continue to committee of the Association of British Insurers to issue or transfer in notify its shareholders by post or other permitted means of the presence of this way more than 7.5% of the share capital in a rolling three-year a document or information on the website.
Previous legislation only facilitated period.
This gives the Directors flexibility to take advantage of business the use of electronic communications in certain limited circumstances.
opportunities as they arise, including the sale of any shares the Company has purchased and held in treasury, whilst the 5% limit ensures that To enable the Company to take advantage of these new provisions in the existing shareholders interests are protected, and is in line with guidelines future, two requirements must be met: issued by institutional investors bodies.
a the shareholders of the Company must have resolved that the Company This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General may send or supply documents or information to shareholders by making Meeting, or, if earlier, on 4 December 2008, except in so far as them available on a website or the Companys Articles of Association must commitments to allot shares have been entered into before that date.
It is contain a provision to this effect : and the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
b the relevant shareholder must have been asked individually by the Resolution 13: Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or Companys authority to purchase shares information to him by means of a website and the Company must either This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to have received a positive response or received no response within the renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares in period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the Companys the market.
This authority gives the Company greater flexibility in managing request was sent.
The Directors have no specific intention of using this Resolution 10 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to facilitate this.
authority and would do so only when, in the light of market conditions, they believed that the effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings The Directors have no current intention to use this authority.
per share, and that the purchases were in the interests of shareholders Resolution 11: generally.
The Directors would also give careful consideration to gearing Directors authority to allot shares levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase Authority was granted to the Directors at last years Annual General price would be paid out of distributable profits.
Resolution 13 specifies the 102 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 maximum number of shares which may be purchased representing 10% Important notes about the Annual General Meeting of the Companys issued share capital at 30 April 2007, the minimum and Date maximum prices at which they may be bought and when the authority will Wednesday 5 September 2007 expire, reflecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
Location Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN The maximum price at which the shares may be purchased is 5% above the average of the middle market values of those shares for the five business Timing days before the purchase is made.
The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing Purchases of shares under the proposed authority are required by the FSA to to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50 am.
The be made in compliance with The Model Code.
Accordingly, the Company reception area will be open from 11.30 am, from which time refreshments would not exercise the authority at a time when the Directors would be will be served.
precluded from dealing in the Companys shares.
Specifically, purchases would not be made within the 60 days preceding the announcement of the Travel information interim or final results.
This proposal should not be taken as an indication See map on the reverse of Admittance Card for the location of the Great that the Company would purchase shares at any particular price or to imply Eastern Hotel and the nearest underground and railway stations.
The venue any opinion on the part of the Directors as to the market or other value of is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool Street station.
There are no car the Companys ordinary shares.
parking facilities at the venue.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations Admission 2003 enable certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an Please bring the Admittance Card which is the tear-off section at the bottom alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the of the Form of Proxy with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
The registration share options and share awards under the Companys share schemes.
process may take longer without these documents.
Shareholders are politely Once held in treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any rights, requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
arrangement with the Company Secretary.
Further, no dividend or distribution of the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of those shares whilst held in treasury.
Facilities Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair access.
If you are planning to come 13, the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would be helpful if you would rather than cancelling them.
The total number of ordinary shares that are telephone the venue in advance on 020 7618 5618. under option through the Companys share option schemes at 27 June 2007 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice is Enquiries and questions 7,531,648 of which 6,488,893 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options over Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the unissued ordinary shares represented on this date was 1.65% and the Registration desk.
Staff from Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on hand to proportion of issued ordinary share capital that they will represent if the provide advice and assistance.
full authority to purchase shares existing and being sought is used is 1.50%.
The authority will expire on 4 December 2008 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting whichever is the earlier.
It is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 103
