Glossary Aircraft owned leased at end of period Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end of the period.
Ancillary revenue Includes credit card fees, baggage charges, speedy boarding fees, sporting equipment fees, infant fees, change fees and rescue fees, profit share from in flight sales and commissions earned on products and services sold, less chargebacks.
Available seat kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average fare Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, dry lease and long-term wet lease costs, and the share of profit after tax of associates.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including no-shows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Return on equity Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders funds.
Revenue The sum of revenue from ticket sales and ancillary revenue.
Revenue passenger kilometres RPK Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
easyJet plc 91 Annual report and accounts 2007
