Group significant Accounting Policies Basis of consolidation Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of Electrocomponents plc the Company is a company domiciled in England.
The Group ownership are classied as finance leases.
Each finance leased asset is stated at an Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity.
payments at the inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
All subsidiary accounts are made No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been depreciated up to 31 March and are included in the Group Accounts.
Further to the IAS Regulation to residual value, on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: EC 1606 2002 the Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU adopted Freehold and leasehold buildings 2% IFRS.
The Company Accounts continue to be prepared in accordance with UK Generally Plant and machinery 10% -20% Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and details of the Company Accounts, Mainframe computer equipment 20% notes to the accounts and principal accounting policies are set out on pages 47 to 52.
Network computer equipment 33% Portable computers 50% The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on 30 May 2007.
Other ofce equipment 20% Basis of preparation Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the income The accounts are presented in Sterling and rounded to 0.1m.
They are prepared on the statement.
The residual value, if not insignicant, is reassessed annually.
historical cost basis except certain financial instruments detailed below.
Impairment The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to make The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually to determine judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the assets reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and recoverable amount is estimated.
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less cost of sale and value in use, the present value of estimated future cash ows using a Estimates and judgements pre tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of The preparation of accounts requires management to make judgements, estimates and money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of independent cash ows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating assets and liabilities, income and expense.
unit to which the asset belongs.
The only significant judgement made in the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007, Inventories surrounds the capitalisation of the Enterprise Business System asset.
During the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
This cost is development of the software, judgements were required as to whether expenditure met the calculated on a weighted average basis.
Work in progress and goods for resale include criteria for capitalisation in IAS 38.
By December 2006, the Enterprise Business System was attributable overheads.
implemented successfully in Austria, France, Germany, Italy and the UK and since the year end in the remainder of Continental Europe.
Other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis of their fair value rather Statement of compliance than cost.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial rate method.
Report Standards IFRS as adopted for use by the EU.
Net debt Revenue Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings.
Cash and cash Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement on despatch equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with qualifying financial institutions in when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Revenue current accounts or overnight deposits net of overdrafts with qualifying financial represents the sale of goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes and volume institutions.
Cash and cash equivalents include government securities, investment in discounts.
Freight recharged to customers is included within revenue.
money market funds and term deposits with qualifying financial institutions and are Transactions eliminated on consolidation classed as investments under current assets.
Borrowings represent term loans from Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising qualifying financial institutions together with financial instruments classied as liabilities.
from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing Group Accounts.
Unrealised Operating expense classication gains arising from transactions with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers.
extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains.
Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company expenses, including freight costs and movements in inventory provisions, together with the Goodwill and other intangibles Supply Chain, Product Management, Media Publishing, Facilities, Information Systems Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been written off against and e-Commerce process expenses.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP, was amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, with Administration expenses comprise Finance, Legal and Human Resources process a maximum of 20 years.
expenses, together with the expenses of the Group Board.
The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that allows goodwill in respect of Net nancing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 to remain as stated under UK GAAP.
The balance of effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange goodwill as at 1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward.
gains and losses and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS.
Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually for impairment.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
The interest expenses component of finance lease payments is Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The cost of recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
acquired intangible assets are their purchase cost together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a straight-line Catalogue costs basis at the following annual rates: Prior to the issue of a catalogue, all related costs incurred are accrued and carried as a prepayment.
On the issue of a catalogue, these costs are written off as they are Trademarks 5% distributed to customers.
Major investments in new catalogue production systems Computer software costs 12.5-50% are capitalised as intangible assets and written off over the period during which the Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the income benets of those investments are anticipated, such period not to exceed three years.
Expenditure Operating leases on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over an expense as incurred.
the course of the lease period.
The benets of rent free periods and similar incentives are Investments in jointly controlled entities credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
The Group Accounts include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses Government grants in one jointly controlled entity on an equity accounted basis.
Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment are Property, plant and equipment credited to the income statement at the same rate as the depreciation on the asset to Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of which the grants relate.
The unamortised balance of capital grants is included within self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and certain trade and other payables.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Group significant Accounting Policies continued Employee benets assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency Pension costs are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme providing benets based on assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are final pensionable pay for eligible employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004.
The translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
scheme is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent of the Groups Financial instruments nances.
In addition there are dened benefit pension schemes in Germany and Ireland.
Derivative financial instruments For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides a dened The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
There are also dened contribution schemes in Australia and North America and government schemes in France, Italy, Denmark and North Asia.
principally employs forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
In Obligations for contributions to dened contribution schemes are recognised as an addition there are also a small number of interest rate swaps which swap certain xed expense in the income statement as incurred.
rate loans into oating rate.
The cost of the dened benefit scheme charged to the income statement comprises: In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold or issue derivative current service cost, past service cost, expected return on scheme assets and the financial instruments for trading purposes.
interest cost on the expected amount of unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities within distribution and marketing expenses.
The Group has elected to adopt the Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups amendment to IAS 19 revised, which allows actuarial gains and losses to be recorded risk management policies.
Hedges are classied as follows: in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense immediately.
Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a recognised asset or liability.
discount rate reecting yields on high quality corporate bonds.
Assets are measured at Cash ow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in cash ows that is their fair value at the balance sheet date.
attributable to a particular risk associated with a forecast transaction.
Share-based payment transactions Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the value of the The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest of which are the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, A US s423 scheme US employees only, the Long Term Incentive Option Plan LTIOP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and All the Groups derivatives have no initial cost.
In subsequent periods they are stated in the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash ow or net investment hedge accounting are The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a recognised in the income statement as they arise.
corresponding increase in equity and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values are calculated using an Cash ow hedge accounting appropriate option pricing model.
The income statement charge is then adjusted to Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in reect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market performance related cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, criteria.
The Groups SAYE scheme has been valued using a Black-Scholes model and the the highly effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is income statement charge has been adjusted for forfeitures caused by employees failing recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised to maintain either their employment or the required savings.
The Groups LTIOP scheme immediately in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction subsequently includes performance criteria based on the Groups total shareholder return performance results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated cumulative relative to a group of 13 comparable companies.
The fair value of the LTIOP scheme has gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial been calculated using a Monte Carlo model and the income statement charge has been asset or liability.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition adjusted for options forfeited by employees leaving the Group.
The EIP includes of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was performance criteria based on the Groups profit in the year to March 2009 and has recognised directly in equity is reclassied into profit or loss in the same period during been valued using a Black-Scholes model.
which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
Administration expenses include the cost of the share-based payment schemes and When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity the Group balance sheet includes the assets and liabilities of the schemes.
Shares in revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is the Company, held by the trust established to administer the schemes, are shown still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is within reserves.
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, is or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference between their Tax discounted contractual forward price and their current forward price.
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax Fair value hedge accounting rates enacted, or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate risks to tax payable in respect of previous years.
arising from nancing activities, holding a small number of interest rate swaps which swap certain xed rate loans into oating rate.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
is calculated using tax rates enacted and substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a Foreign currency foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in Financial statements of foreign operations equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value Hedge of net investment in foreign operations adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange equity.
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Changes in accounting policies The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation differences prior to the date of The following standards and interpretations to existing standards that have been enacted transition 1 April 2004 do not need to be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed but have no impact on these accounts are: cumulative translation differences at this date can be set to nil.
Thus, any cumulative translation differences arising prior to the date of transition are excluded from any future IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting in profit loss on disposal of any entities.
The Group adopted this exemption.
hyperinationary economies effective from 1 March 2006 : IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006 : Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations, and of related IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for annual periods qualifying hedges are taken directly to equity.
They are released into the income beginning on or after 1 June 2006. statement upon disposal.
The following standard and interpretations to existing standards that has been endorsed, Foreign currency transactions but the Group has decided not to early adopt is: Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures, was issued in August 2005, it revised and enhanced previous disclosures in IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Disclosure and sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
This standard has no impact on these accounts.
28 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
