Company significant Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Fair value hedge accounting The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, risks arising from nancing activities, holding a small number of interest rate swaps modied to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as which swap certain xed rate loans into oating rate.
described below, and in accordance with UK Company Law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and are presented on Pension costs pages 24 to 45.
The Company participates in group operated dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the Company in independently administered funds.
requirements to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the dened benefit schemes underlying Under Financial Reporting Standard 25, the Company is exempt from disclosure assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for its dened contribution.
The amounts requirements of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation on the grounds that the charged against profits represent contributions to the schemes in respect of the parent undertaking Electrocomponents plc includes the Company in its own published accounting period.
Disclosures are provided in note 21 under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation which comply with the disclosure requirements of FRS 25.
Long Term Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan The Company operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest of which are The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under UK GAAP, which the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the Long Term Incentive Option Plan have been applied consistently.
LTIOP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans are included in corresponding increase in equity and spread over the period during which employees the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower of cost and the expected recoverable become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values are calculated using amount.
Any impairment is recognised in the profit and Loss Account.
an appropriate option pricing model.
The profit and loss account charge is then Translation of foreign currencies adjusted to reect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at performance related criteria.
the date of the transaction or monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign All profit and loss account charges relating to options held by members of other currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date Group companies are charged to the appropriate Group company.
and the gains and losses on translation are included in the profit and Loss Account.
The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS 20, Share-Based Financial instruments Payment, is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign Depreciation exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
It No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been depreciated principally employs forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in to residual value, on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: exchange rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
In addition there are also a small number of interest rate swaps which swap certain Freehold buildings 2% xed rate loans into oating rate.
Warehouse systems 10-20% Plant and equipment 10-20% In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does not hold or issue derivative Mainframe computer equipment 20% financial instruments for trading purposes.
Network computer equipment 33% Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Portable computers 50% Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are classied as follows: Computer software costs 12.5-50% Other ofce equipment 20% Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Taxation Cash ow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in cash ows that The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account is attributable to a particular risk associated with a forecast transaction.
taxation deferred because of timing differences.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the value of items for taxation and accounting purposes.
the Companys interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
Leases All the Companys derivatives have no initial cost.
In subsequent periods they are stated Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and Loss Account on a straight-line in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial basis over the course of the lease period.
The benets of rent free periods and similar instruments that do not qualify for cash ow or net investment hedge accounting are incentives are credited to the profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over recognised in the profit and Loss as they arise.
the period up to the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing Cash ow hedge accounting market rate.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in Own shares held cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, The Companys own shares held by the Electrocomponents Employee Trust and the the highly effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised QUEST are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with immediately in the profit and Loss Account.
When the forecast transaction subsequently employees as required by UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was recognised directly in equity is reclassied into profit or loss in the same period during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the profit and Loss Account.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference between their discounted contractual forward price and their current forward price.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
