Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any Renewal of Directors authority for the purchase by the Company of its own shares doubt as to what action you should take, you should seek your own advice from your 9 THAT the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company ordinary shares provided that: If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares, please send the Report and a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased Accounts containing this document, together with the accompanying form of proxy, as is 43,532,000: soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee of those shares or to the stockbroker, b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission ordinary share: to the purchaser or transferee.
c the maximum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is an amount Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Electrocomponents plc will equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations be held at the Companys premises, The International Management Centre, 8050 for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial Oxford Business Park North, Oxford OX4 2HW on Friday 13 July 2007 at 12.00 noon.
List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase or The business of the meeting will be: ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC Ordinary Business 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards Report and Accounts exemptions for buyback programmes and stabilisation of financial 1 To receive the accounts and the reports of the Directors and the auditors for the instruments No 2273 2003 : year ended 31 March 2007. d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Directors Remuneration Report Annual General Meeting of the Company, unless such authority is renewed 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2007. prior to such a time: and Declaration of Dividend e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the 3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or Retiring Directors and New Directors may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may 4 To elect Mr H Mamsch as a Director.
make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
5 To re-elect Dr L Atkinson as a Director.
The Directors consider that the passing of each of the resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as 6 To re-elect Mr I Mason as a Director.
a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions, as the Auditors appointment and remuneration Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
7 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the By Order of the Board Directors to agree their remuneration.
Ian Haslegrave Special Business Company Secretary To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions of which resolution 8 30 May 2007 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and resolution 9 will be proposed as Registered Ofce: International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park a Special Resolution: North, Oxford OX4 2HW Registered Number: 647788 Electronic Communication 8 THAT the Company be authorised, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, to send, convey or supply all types of notices, documents or information to the members by means of electronic equipment, including by making such notices, documents or information available on a website.
54 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the member of the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member from attending or voting at the meeting if he she subsequently wishes to do so.
is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting ii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service Company has specified that only those shareholders registered in the Register provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a of Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 11 July 2007 will be entitled to message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the 6.00 pm on 11 July 2007 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the iii A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be effective a proxy form and the authority circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities if any under which it is signed or a notarially certied copy of such authority Regulations 2001. must be deposited at the ofces of the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB v If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZP by not later how the votes the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in than 12.00 noon on Wednesday 11 July 2007. respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting holding such number of voting rights that he has a notiable obligation under to be held on 13 July 2007 at 12.00 noon and any adjournment s thereof by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members notications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on rights and so would otherwise have a notication obligation under the their behalf.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notication to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must vi As at 30 May 2007, the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and Notice, the Companys total capital consisted of 435,330,490 Ordinary must contain the information required for such instructions, as described Shares with a total of 435,330,490 voting rights.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the vii The Register of Directors Interests and copies of all Contracts of Service of appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a the Directors together with terms and conditions of appointment of the previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection during business hours be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt at the registered ofce of the Company and will be available for inspection of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the at the place of the Meeting from half an hour before the time of the Meeting time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp until the conclusion of the Meeting.
applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner viii Biographical details of the Directors who are proposed for re-election or election prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies at the Annual General Meeting are set out on page 14. appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55
