Financial statements Parent company accounts Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 March 1 Accounting policies d Derivatives and other financial instruments Accounting convention Derivatives, including currency options and swaps, forward exchange contracts and swaps, and interest rate swaps are initially recognised at The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as fair value.
Derivatives are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under and classified as current or non-current within the balance sheet based the historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments, on maturity date.
The fair value is determined by using market data and share based payments and defined benefit pension schemes which the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cash have been measured at fair value and in accordance with United flow and option valuation models.
Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
The Company may designate certain of its derivative instruments as hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of a Fixed asset investments investments in foreign operations investment hedges.
Changes in the Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value permanent diminution in value.
hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are b Tangible fixed assets attributable to the hedged risk.
The cost of tangible fixed assets other than freehold land, less their estimated residual value on disposal, is written down evenly over their The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are expected useful economic lives as follows: designated and qualify as investment hedges are recognised in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the hedging relationship freehold buildings maximum period 50 years: must be expected to be effective and be designated and documented leasehold property over the period of the lease to a maximum of at its inception.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in 50 years: and the profit and loss account when the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are office equipment and vehicles one to 15 years.
recognised immediately in finance income or finance costs in the profit and loss account.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Derivatives which are not designated as hedging instruments or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are measured at fair value.
c Foreign currencies Movements in their fair value are recognised in the profit and loss Exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and account immediately.
derivative financial instruments which are used to provide a hedge against foreign currency investments are also taken to reserves to the The Companys policies on treasury risk management are set out extent that they match exchange differences on the investments to in Capital structure and treasury policy on pages 40 to 41 of the which they relate.
Other transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction, or at the contracted rate where a related hedging contract exists.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates ruling at 31 March.
All such exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
110 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Financial statements e Taxation g Share-based payments The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes The Company operates several employee option and performanceaccount of taxation deferred because of timing differences between related share schemes.
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
The fair value of options or shares granted under these schemes is Tax deferred or accelerated by the effect of timing differences is recognised in the profit and loss account as an employee expense over accounted for to the extent that a transaction or event that has the period in which any performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on occurred at the balance sheet date gives rise to an obligation to pay the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the more tax or a right to pay less tax, in the future.
award, based on managements best estimate of the number of awards that will ultimately vest.
A corresponding amount is credited to Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, based on equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, available evidence, it is more likely than not that suitable taxable profit except for those where the vesting depends on a market condition.
will arise from which the reversal of the asset can be deducted.
The Whether or not the market condition is satisfied, these are treated as Company does not discount deferred tax assets or liabilities.
vesting as long as all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The fair value of the awards are measured at the date at which they are f Retirement benefits granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, except in the case The Company operates both defined contribution and defined benefit of the Groups senior management Performance Related Pay Plan, pension schemes.
which is valued using a Monte-Carlo simulation option-pricing model.
For defined benefit schemes, within the balance sheet, the Company Shares in the Company are held in trust to satisfy the exercise of recognises the net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation awards under certain share option and performance share schemes.
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, using the These shares are presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from projected unit cost method, classified either as a non-current liability if equity at the market value on the date of issue or acquisition.
a scheme is in a net deficit position, or a non-current asset if a scheme is in a net asset position.
The value of a schemes assets and liabilities h Exemptions are updated annually and subject to a formal triennial valuation by an independent actuary, by discounting the liabilities at an interest rate The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements from presenting a cash flow statement of equivalent currency and term, and measuring the assets at fair value on the basis that the cash flows of the Company are consolidated at the balance sheet date.
in the cash flows in the Emap plc consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions available in FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure The service cost of a scheme, the returns on a schemes assets and and presentation from disclosing information on financial instruments interest on a schemes liabilities are taken to the profit and loss account on the basis that these disclosures are set out in the consolidated and included in staff costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, along with accounts of Emap plc for the year ended 31 March 2007. related taxation, are recognised in equity via the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
For the defined contribution scheme, contributions payable are charged to the profit and loss account and included in staff costs as an operating expense as incurred.
111 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
