Financial statements Group accounts Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 March 1 Accounting policies Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of General information accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is the cash paid together with the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments issued and These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International liabilities incurred or assumed, plus costs directly attributable to the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, Reporting Interpretations Committees IFRIC interpretations as irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Independent expert adopted by the European Union EU applicable at 31 March 2007, valuers are used to ascertain the fair values of acquired intangible and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies assets if material.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair reporting under IFRS.
value of net assets assumed is recorded as goodwill.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group adopted IFRIC 4 Minority interests represents the portion of profit or loss and net assets Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease which requires in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group.
the determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement, and IFRIC 8 b Investments in associates and joint ventures Scope of IFRS 2 which clarifies the extent to which equity settled An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to transactions at less than fair value fall within the scope of IFRS 2 within exercise significant influence but not control, generally accompanying these accounts.
The Group has also adopted IFRIC 9 Reassessment a shareholding of between 20% to 50% of the voting rights.
A joint of Embedded Derivatives which was not mandatory for this accounting venture is an entity over which the Group exercises joint control, usually period.
The adoption of these interpretations did not have a material through a contractual arrangement.
The Groups investments in impact on the Groups results.
associates and joint ventures are recognised using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has not yet adopted: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and its related amendment to IAS 1, which introduces new disclosures of Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised at qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks cost and thereafter are carried in the balance sheet at cost less any arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum impairment in value, and include the carrying value of related goodwill disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
This and the Groups share of changes in the associate or joint ventures standard is mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning net assets since acquisition.
The income statement reflects the on or after 1 April 2007: and Groups share of an associate or joint ventures profit after tax.
Where the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture exceeds its investment, the Group ceases to recognise further losses unless an IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1 April 2009 which obligation exists for the Group to fund the losses.
Where a change replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting under which segment in net assets has been recognised directly in the associate or joint information is presented on the same basis as that used for ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of those changes in internal reporting purposes.
The Group has assessed the impact the statement of changes in equity when applicable.
of IFRS 8 and concluded that its segmental reporting is unlikely to be significantly affected.
Adjustments are made to align the accounting policies of the associate or joint venture with the Groups and to eliminate the Groups share of Basis of preparation unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the associates and joint ventures.
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivatives and fair value accounting of share-based payments and defined benefit c Intangible fixed assets pension schemes.
The following summarises the principal accounting policies adopted by the Directors which have been applied consistently Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment either annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible decline in the a Basis of consolidation carrying value.
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and Impairment is determined by comparing the recoverable amount of the its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2007. cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units which are A subsidiary is an entity including special purpose entities over which expected to benefit from the acquisition in which the goodwill arose, the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies to the carrying value of the goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the greater of an assets value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
The results of each subsidiary are included from the date Value in use is calculated by discounting the future cash flows that control transferred to the Group and are adjusted to align expected to be derived from the asset or group of assets in a cashaccounting policies with the Groups accounting policies.
Subsidiaries generating unit at the Groups cost of capital, adjusted for risk in a are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Where the recoverable amount is less than All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
the carrying value, the goodwill is considered impaired and is written down through the income statement to its recoverable amount.
72 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Financial statements Intangible assets acquired as part of a business acquisition are e Inventories capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Purchased intangible Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost.
After initial Cost represents purchase cost, including attributable overheads, and recognition, all intangible fixed assets are measured at cost less is determined using a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less Intangible fixed assets which have been assigned a finite life are estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
amortised and tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may have declined.
f Trade and other receivables This is done on a similar basis to the testing of goodwill, either for Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, individual assets or at the level of a cash-generating unit.
Useful lives less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the are examined every year and adjustments are made, where applicable, income statement when there is objective evidence that the Group will on a prospective basis.
not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives on a systematic basis g Cash and cash equivalents over the assets useful life, which in all cases is a maximum period of Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and 20 years.
other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow Where an intangible asset has been assigned an indefinite useful life, statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined, net of it is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment either annually or outstanding bank overdrafts.
more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible decline in the carrying value.
h Borrowings Where borrowings are designated in an effective hedge relationship d Property, plant and equipment which qualifies for hedge accounting treatment, the hedged portion Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated of the borrowing is revalued to fair value with all gains and losses taken depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated in to the income statement to offset against the gains and losses on the such a way as to write off the cost of an asset, less its residual value, hedging instrument.
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: such as fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings.
For hedge accounting freehold buildings maximum period 50 years: treatment to apply, the hedge must be fully documented and be highly effective.
leasehold property over the period of the lease to a maximum of 50 years: When a borrowing is fide-designated as a hedging instrument, it is office equipment and vehicles one to 15 years: and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
All other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net freehold land is not depreciated.
of transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amount initially recognised and the Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period sheet date.
of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for i Provisions impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate these Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or values may not be recoverable.
If there is an indication that impairment constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable does exist the carrying values are compared to the estimated that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and recoverable amounts of the assets concerned.
The recoverable amount when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
is the greater of an assets value in use and its fair value less the cost of selling it.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the future cash Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, flows expected to be derived from the asset.
Where the carrying value the reimbursement is recognised only when it is virtually certain.
The of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment net of any reimbursement.
losses are recognised in the income statement.
If the time value of money has a material effect on quantifying the An item of property, plant or equipment is written off either on disposal provision, the provision is determined by discounting the expected or when there is no expected future economic benefit from its future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market continued use.
Any gain or loss on fide-recognition of the asset assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the the carrying value of the asset is included in the income statement in increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised the year the item is fide-recognised.
73 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Financial statements Group accounts Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 March 1 Accounting policies continued m Revenue j Dividends Revenue for goods sold is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, or for Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as services provided, at the point when it is probable that the economic a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the benefits will flow to the Group and when the amount of revenue can be dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders or, in the case reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the of an interim dividend, in the period in which it is paid.
Distributions to consideration received, net of discounts, customs duties and sales shareholders are not recognised in the income statement, but are taxes.
Revenue is only recognised for barter transactions which are disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
considered dissimilar to each other in nature, and a corresponding amount is included in operating costs.
k Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of Emap plc and its UK The following recognition criteria also apply in specific cases: subsidiaries is Sterling.
The functional currency of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is the currency of the primary economic Magazine newsstand circulation and advertising revenue are environment in which they operate.
recognised according to the on-sale date of the publication.
A provision is deducted from circulation revenue for expected returns, and is adjusted for actual returns when this is known.
Pre-paid subscription Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional revenues are shown as deferred income and released to the income currency rate applicable at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets statement over the life of the subscription.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange in force at the balance sheet date.
Radio and TV advertising revenue is recognised on the date of All differences are taken to the income statement except for those broadcast.
Sponsorship revenue is recognised evenly over the life on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against an of the contract.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to Exhibition income is recognised when the event has taken place.
exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Information product subscription revenues are recognised in the Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in income statement evenly over the life of the subscription.
All a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate in force at advertising revenue and pre-sold circulation revenue for directories the date of initial transaction.
is recognised on the date of publication.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of overseas Income from licensing magazine brands to third party publishers is subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange recognised on an accruals basis and is included in revenue.
applicable at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
The exchange Where the Group acts as a distributor for third parties, only the differences arising from the retranslation of foreign operations are commission received is recognised as revenue unless the Group acts taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of as a principal and has direct dealings with the customer, in which case a foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised in equity the gross amount received is recognised as revenue.
relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
n Pension and other post-employment benefits The Group has adopted the amended version of IAS 19 Employee l Leases Benefits within these accounts.
Finance leases, where the Group bears substantially all the risks and benefits of owning the leased item, are capitalised at the start of the The Group operates both defined contribution and defined benefit lease term at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present pension schemes.
value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the lease liability in order For defined benefit schemes, within the balance sheet, the Group to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the recognises the net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation liability.
The finance charge is included within finance costs in the at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, using the income statement.
projected unit cost method, either as a non-current liability if a scheme is in a net deficit position, or a non-current asset if a scheme is in Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease a net asset position.
The value of a schemes assets and liabilities are term or the estimated useful life of the asset.
updated annually and subject to a formal triennial valuation by an independent actuary, by discounting the liabilities at an interest rate Leases, where most of the risks and benefits of owning the asset equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond remain with the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Operating of equivalent currency and term, and measuring the assets at fair value lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement at the balance sheet date.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The benefit of any lease incentive is recognised as a reduction in rental expense on a straightline basis over the life of the lease.
74 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Financial statements The service cost of a scheme, the returns on a schemes assets and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not provided for the following interest on a schemes liabilities are taken to the income statement and temporary differences: included in staff costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, along with related taxation, are recognised in equity via the statement of recognised goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes: and income and expense.
the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and which affect neither accounting For the defined contribution scheme, contributions payable are nor taxable profit.
charged to the income statement and included in staff costs as an operating expense as incurred.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow all or part o Share-based payments of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying amount The Group operates several employee option and performance-related of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that The fair value of options or shares granted under these schemes is are expected to apply to the year in which the asset is realised or the recognised in the income statement as an employee expense over liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or the period in which any performance conditions are fulfilled, ending substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax assets on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to and liabilities are not offset when they relate to different countries.
the award, based on managements best estimate of the number of awards that will ultimately vest.
A corresponding amount is credited to A deferred tax asset is recognised for gains on share options not yet equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, exercised, based on an estimate of the share price on exercise.
This is except for those where the vesting depends on a market condition.
credited to the income statement to the extent that it does not exceed Whether or not the market condition is satisfied, these are treated as the share scheme expense.
The excess is recognised directly in equity.
vesting as long as all other performance conditions are satisfied.
q Derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of the awards are measured at the date at which they are Derivatives, including currency options and swaps, forward exchange granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, except in the contracts and swaps, and interest rate swaps and caps are initially case of the Groups senior manager Performance Related Pay Plan recognised at fair value.
Derivatives are subsequently remeasured PRP and the Groups Executive Share Option Plan ESOP scheme, at their fair value, and classified as current or non-current within the which are valued using a Monte-Carlo simulation option-pricing model.
consolidated balance sheet based on maturity date.
The fair value is determined by using market data and the use of established estimation Shares in the Company are held in trust to satisfy the exercise of techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
awards under certain of the Groups share option and performance share schemes.
The trust is consolidated within the Group accounts.
The Group may designate certain of its derivative instruments as These shares are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of a deduction from equity at the market value on the date of issue investments in foreign operations investment hedges.
the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with p Income tax any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current tax and attributable to the hedged risk.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity in The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are which case it is recognised in equity.
designated and qualify as investment hedges is recognised in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the hedging relationship Current tax is tax payable based on taxable profits for the period, must be expected to be effective and be designated and documented using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the at its inception.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included balance sheet date along with any adjustment relating to tax payable in the income statement when the corresponding foreign operation in previous years.
Taxable profit differs from net profit in the income is disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are statement in that income or expense items that are taxable or recognised immediately in finance income or finance costs in the deductible in other years are excluded as are items that are never consolidated income statement.
Current tax assets relate to payments on account not offset against current tax liabilities.
Derivatives which are not designated as hedging instruments or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are measured at fair value.
Using the liability method, deferred tax is provided on all temporary Movements in their fair value is recognised in the consolidated income differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets statement immediately.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
The Groups policies on treasury risk management are set out in Capital structure and treasury policy on pages 40 to 41 of the Business review.
75 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Financial statements Group accounts Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 March 1 Accounting policies continued Critical accounting assumptions and judgements q Derivatives and other financial instruments continued The preparation of accounts under IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting assumptions, and requires management to exercise Available for sale financial assets include investments in other entities its judgement and to make estimates in the process of applying the which do not classify for treatment as a subsidiary, associate or joint Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree of venture, over which the Group has no ability to exercise influence, and judgement, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant money market deposits with no fixed maturity date.
These are initially to the consolidated accounts, are discussed below.
recognised at fair value, and measured at fair value thereafter, with changes in fair value being taken to equity until the asset is sold, at which time any gains or losses previously recognised in equity are a Intangible fixed assets included in any profit or loss on sale.
Where an active market for the The Group uses forecast cash flow information and estimates of future asset does not exist, after initial recognition at fair value, it is measured growth to assess whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired, at cost.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group and to determine the useful economic lives of its intangible assets.
If intends to dispose of the asset within 12 months of the balance the results of operations in a future period are adverse to the estimates sheet date.
used for impairment testing, an impairment may be triggered at that point, or a reduction in useful economic life may be required.
r Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a group of b Taxation assets through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, The Group is primarily subject to Corporation tax in the UK and the and a sale is considered to be highly probable at the balance sheet US, and judgement and estimates of future profitability are required date, the assets are classified as held for sale and measured at the to determine the Groups deferred tax position.
If the final tax outcome lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
If the group of assets is different to that assumed, resulting changes will be reflected in the constitutes a separate major line of business it is classified as income statement, unless the tax relates to an item charged to equity a discontinued operation.
No depreciation or amortisation is charged in which case the changes in tax estimates will also be reflected in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
s Segmental reporting c Retirement benefit obligations The Groups primary reporting segments are business segments rather Assumptions, including future rates of inflation, salary growth, yields, than geographical segments, reflecting the way in which the Group returns on investments and mortality rates are used by the Groups is managed.
Each segment comprises assets which bear similar risks actuaries to determine the Groups retirement benefit obligations.
Changes in these assumptions over time and differences to the actual outcome will be reflected in the Groups statement of recognised income and expense.
76 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
