Financial statements 37 Principal subsidiary undertakings All subsidiary undertakings are registered in England and Wales and operate in the UK, except where indicated otherwise.
All holdings are of ordinary shares and all subsidiary undertakings are 100% indirectly owned except where indicated otherwise.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, and information relating to them as shown below is filed with the Companys annual return.
All subsidiaries are included in the Group consolidation.
In the opinion of the Directors, the principal subsidiary undertakings that affect Group trading results and net assets are as follows: Agor SAS France AME Info FZ-LLC Dubai Box Television Limited Cap Motor Research Limited Capital Radio Productions Limited Ireland Downtown Radio Limited N. Ireland Emap Communications Limited Emap Consumer Media Limited Emap Digital Radio Limited Emap Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Emap Public Sector Limited Emap Radio Limited Emap Support Services Limited Frontline Limited # 60% International Advertising Festival Limited Kiss FM Radio Limited Magic 105.4 Limited Metro Radio Limited Piccadilly Radio Limited Radio City Sound of Merseyside Limited Radio Clyde Limited Scotland Radio Forth Limited Scotland Radio Hallam Limited Radio Ireland Limited Ireland Red Rose Radio Limited Seymour International Limited Trades Exhibitions Limited WGSN Inc. USA Worth Global Style Network Limited Yospace Technologies Ltd Direct subsidiary undertaking of Emap plc.
Emap plc holds 33% of the voting rights in Frontline Limited.
# Although the Company does not hold a majority of the voting rights in this company, this is included in subsidiary undertakings on the basis that the Group exercises dominant influence over its operating and financial policies.
38 Post balance sheet event On 6 April 2007 the Company redeemed and cancelled all remaining outstanding B shares at a value of 8m.
On 22 May 2007 Emap Communications Limited announced it had agreed to acquire the entire share capital of GroundSure Limited, a leader in the provision of environmental risk information, subject to FSA clearance, for an initial cash consideration of 30m with further deferred cash consideration payable over two years of up to 14m.
We expect to complete the transaction in the first half of the 2008 financial year.
107 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
