Financial statements Group accounts Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 March 1 Accounting policies Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of General information accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is the cash paid together with the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments issued and These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International liabilities incurred or assumed, plus costs directly attributable to the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, Reporting Interpretations Committees IFRIC interpretations as irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Independent expert adopted by the European Union EU applicable at 31 March 2007, valuers are used to ascertain the fair values of acquired intangible and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies assets if material.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair reporting under IFRS.
value of net assets assumed is recorded as goodwill.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group adopted IFRIC 4 Minority interests represents the portion of profit or loss and net assets Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease which requires in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group.
the determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement, and IFRIC 8 b Investments in associates and joint ventures Scope of IFRS 2 which clarifies the extent to which equity settled An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to transactions at less than fair value fall within the scope of IFRS 2 within exercise significant influence but not control, generally accompanying these accounts.
The Group has also adopted IFRIC 9 Reassessment a shareholding of between 20% to 50% of the voting rights.
A joint of Embedded Derivatives which was not mandatory for this accounting venture is an entity over which the Group exercises joint control, usually period.
The adoption of these interpretations did not have a material through a contractual arrangement.
The Groups investments in impact on the Groups results.
associates and joint ventures are recognised using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has not yet adopted: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and its related amendment to IAS 1, which introduces new disclosures of Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised at qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks cost and thereafter are carried in the balance sheet at cost less any arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum impairment in value, and include the carrying value of related goodwill disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
This and the Groups share of changes in the associate or joint ventures standard is mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning net assets since acquisition.
The income statement reflects the on or after 1 April 2007: and Groups share of an associate or joint ventures profit after tax.
Where the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture exceeds its investment, the Group ceases to recognise further losses unless an IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1 April 2009 which obligation exists for the Group to fund the losses.
Where a change replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting under which segment in net assets has been recognised directly in the associate or joint information is presented on the same basis as that used for ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of those changes in internal reporting purposes.
The Group has assessed the impact the statement of changes in equity when applicable.
of IFRS 8 and concluded that its segmental reporting is unlikely to be significantly affected.
Adjustments are made to align the accounting policies of the associate or joint venture with the Groups and to eliminate the Groups share of Basis of preparation unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the associates and joint ventures.
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivatives and fair value accounting of share-based payments and defined benefit c Intangible fixed assets pension schemes.
The following summarises the principal accounting policies adopted by the Directors which have been applied consistently Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment either annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible decline in the a Basis of consolidation carrying value.
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and Impairment is determined by comparing the recoverable amount of the its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2007. cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units which are A subsidiary is an entity including special purpose entities over which expected to benefit from the acquisition in which the goodwill arose, the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies to the carrying value of the goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the greater of an assets value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
The results of each subsidiary are included from the date Value in use is calculated by discounting the future cash flows that control transferred to the Group and are adjusted to align expected to be derived from the asset or group of assets in a cashaccounting policies with the Groups accounting policies.
Subsidiaries generating unit at the Groups cost of capital, adjusted for risk in a are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Where the recoverable amount is less than All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
the carrying value, the goodwill is considered impaired and is written down through the income statement to its recoverable amount.
72 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
