Financial statements Parent company accounts Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 March 1 Accounting policies d Derivatives and other financial instruments Accounting convention Derivatives, including currency options and swaps, forward exchange contracts and swaps, and interest rate swaps are initially recognised at The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as fair value.
Derivatives are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under and classified as current or non-current within the balance sheet based the historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments, on maturity date.
The fair value is determined by using market data and share based payments and defined benefit pension schemes which the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cash have been measured at fair value and in accordance with United flow and option valuation models.
Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
The Company may designate certain of its derivative instruments as hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of a Fixed asset investments investments in foreign operations investment hedges.
Changes in the Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value permanent diminution in value.
hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are b Tangible fixed assets attributable to the hedged risk.
The cost of tangible fixed assets other than freehold land, less their estimated residual value on disposal, is written down evenly over their The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are expected useful economic lives as follows: designated and qualify as investment hedges are recognised in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the hedging relationship freehold buildings maximum period 50 years: must be expected to be effective and be designated and documented leasehold property over the period of the lease to a maximum of at its inception.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in 50 years: and the profit and loss account when the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are office equipment and vehicles one to 15 years.
recognised immediately in finance income or finance costs in the profit and loss account.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Derivatives which are not designated as hedging instruments or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are measured at fair value.
c Foreign currencies Movements in their fair value are recognised in the profit and loss Exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and account immediately.
derivative financial instruments which are used to provide a hedge against foreign currency investments are also taken to reserves to the The Companys policies on treasury risk management are set out extent that they match exchange differences on the investments to in Capital structure and treasury policy on pages 40 to 41 of the which they relate.
Other transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction, or at the contracted rate where a related hedging contract exists.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates ruling at 31 March.
All such exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
110 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
