Company accounting policies Basis of preparation Provision is made for gains which have been rolled over into As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term replacement assets only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, Company refers to EMI Group plc.
The separate financial statements of there is a commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The results for the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 represent Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the continuing operations.
Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company can be deducted.
has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that Foreign currencies are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and balance sheet date.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into Sterling at year end rates.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt with in the Fixed asset investments determination of profit for the financial year.
In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiary undertakings and participating interest in joint venture companies and Turnover associates are stated at cost less provision for any impairments.
Turnover represents the invoiced value or contracted amount of goods and services supplied by the Company.
Turnover is stated net of actual Financial liabilities product returns and excludes value added tax and similar sales-related As described further in Note 35, financial instruments for the year ended taxes.
Provision is also made in respect of expected future returns of 31 March 2007 are reported in accordance with FRS 26 Financial goods and services supplied by the Company and its subsidiaries prior Instruments: Measurement.
to the balance sheet date.
Borrowings Retirement benefits All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the Retirement benefits are accounted for under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are schemes for its employees.
The Company is unable to identify its share of subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest the underlying assets and liabilities of its defined benefit schemes and so, method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue in accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for them as defined costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses on contribution schemes.
derecognition are recognised in finance charges.
Tangible assets Financial derivatives Assets are held at depreciated historical cost.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on cost at rates with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial estimated to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value of the instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps relevant assets, by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives: and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market effect is given, where necessary, to commercial and technical rates for similar instruments.
The annual rates used are: For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as fair value Freehold buildings and long-term 2% hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a leasehold property recognised asset or liability.
Short-term leasehold property Lower of period of lease and useful economic life In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 33 3% held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the value may not be recoverable.
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and Taxation loss account.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, or to receive more tax, with the and loss account.
following exceptions: Share-based payments Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and The share option programme allows certain Company employees to similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is fixed assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
The fair value is measured at grant date and the expense is spread no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at over the period during which the employees become unconditionally the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured will be rolled over into replacement assets.
using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
89 Company accounting policies continued The amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of awards that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where the vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions in respect of equity settled awards and has applied FRS 20 Share-based Payment only to awards granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money on the quantification of the provision is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as finance costs.
