Company auditors report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider EMI Group plc whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial We have audited the parent company financial statements of EMI Group statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise Company balance unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, sheet, Company accounting policies and the related notes 32 to 44. the Chief Executive Officers Statement and the Operating and Financial These parent company financial statements have been prepared Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any been audited.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of EMI Basis of audit opinion Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and Report to be audited.
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be 31 March 2007: audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the parent company financial statements and the part of the Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared given in the parent company directors report is consistent with the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and financial statements.
The information given in the directors report the information given in the directors report is consistent with the includes that specific information presented in the Operating and parent company financial statements.
Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the directors report.
Ernst & Young LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept Registered auditor proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and London explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law 21 May 2007 regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
