Group accounting policies Authorisation of financial statements For purchases of minority interests in subsidiaries, the Group applies The financial statements of EMI Group plc theCompany and its the entity concept method.
Under this method, the entire difference subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007 between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary, and the were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2007 and minority interest's share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Eric Nicoli and consolidated balance sheet at the date of acquisition of the minority Martin Stewart.
EMI Group plc is a public limited company incorporated interests, is reflected as a transaction between owners.
and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys Ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Foreign currency translation Sterling is the functional currency of the parent undertaking and the Basis of preparation presentational currency of the Group.
The functional currency of The consolidated financial information comprises the accounts of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies foreign Company and its subsidiaries which have been prepared in accordance operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs which they operate.
as adopted by the European Union as they apply it to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional Groups principal accounting policies under IFRS are set out below.
currency at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the Where applicable, prior year figures have been adjusted to disclose functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
them on the same basis as current year figures.
The most significant All differences are taken to the income statement with the exception of adjustment relates to the classification of financial assets and financial differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against liabilities which were previously classified within financial derivatives, a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity other investments and borrowings on the balance sheet: these have until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised been reclassified to financial assets and financial liabilities to more in the income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to accurately reflect the nature of the assets and liabilities.
exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair values were determined.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Effective date The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of period.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 operations are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount International Financial Reporting recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is Interpretations Committee IFRIC recognised in the income statement.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 Business combinations and goodwill IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Share Transactions 1 March 2007 acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities financial statements of the Group in the period of initial application.
and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are The exception is for IFRS 7 where additional disclosures on financial measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective instruments, their significance and the nature and the extent of risks that of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the they give rise to are required.
More specifically the Group will need to acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable disclose the fair values of its financial instruments and its risk exposure net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
There will be no effect on the reported income or net assets.
The Group expects to adopt the above standards for the year Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost.
Following initial ending 31 March 2008 with the exception of IFRS 8 which it expects recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated to adopt for the year ending 31 March 2010. impairment losses.
The significant accounting policies and key assumptions of the future that Due to the adoption of IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 April 2003, have a significant risk of causing material adjustments have been detailed goodwill on acquisitions from 1 April 2003 is not amortised and goodwill within the notes to the financial statements.
already carried in the balance sheet is not amortised from 1 April 2003.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if All amounts in the financial statements are rounded to the nearest 0.1m events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value unless otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation For an asset, such as goodwill, that does not generate largely The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements independent cash flows, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of of EMI Group plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2007. fair value less cost to sell and value in use, is determined for the smallest identifiable group of assets including that asset that generate cash All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other profits and losses arising from intra-group transactions, have been assets or groups of assets a cash generating unit.
Intangible assets Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Intangible assets include music copyrights and other intangibles.
transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost, whilst those on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss acquired as part of a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value at of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the date of acquisition.
the results for the part of the reporting year during which EMI Group plc has control.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a systematic basis over their useful economic lives.
60 These lives are estimated on an individual basis at periods of anything up Financial assets to and including 20 years.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at may be impaired.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
investments: or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial Intangible assets created within the business that cannot be recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
distinguished from the cost of developing the business as a whole are not capitalised.
Any relevant expenditure is charged against profit from Those investments classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale are operations in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Available-for-sale investments are held on the balance sheet at fair value, with any changes in value being Property, plant and equipment recognised in equity.
When fair value is not available, the available-for-sale Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated investments are held on the balance sheet at cost less any impairment in depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on value.
Held-to-maturity investments are held on the balance sheet at a straight line basis to write off the cost, less residual value, of assets over amortised cost.
the estimated useful life of the asset.
The annual rates used are: Those investments classified as fair value through profit and loss are Freehold buildings 2% designated as current assets and are held on the balance sheet at fair Property held under finance leases and Lower of lease term and value, with any changes in fair value being recognised in the income leasehold improvements useful economic life statement along with gains or losses on disposal.
1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 - 33 3% Inventories The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Where an indicator of impairment Advances exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount, which is In the ordinary course of business the Group pays advances and the higher of the asset's net selling price and value in use.
Where the other expenses recoupable from future royalties to performing artists, carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset songwriters, producers and third party repertoire owners.
The amounts is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
paid are carried at cost less recoupment and less an allowance for any unrecoupable amounts.
The allowance is based on past revenue Assets are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic performance, current popularity and projected revenue.
benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the Advances are recoupable during the business operating cycle.
All difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value advances are therefore reported as current assets, including advances of the asset is included in the income statement in the period in which recoupable more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade receivables Assets are held at historical cost with the exception that certain Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised properties in the subsidiary undertaking Toshiba-EMI Limited were and carried at the originally invoiced amount less an allowance for carried at revalued amounts that were frozen until their disposal during any doubtful debts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when the financial year ended 31 March 2007.
This frozen carrying value collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are was deemed cost in the case of these properties.
Leases Cash and cash equivalents Assets which are held under a finance lease, which transfers to the Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
in hand net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest Financial liabilities on the remaining balance of the lease liability.
Capitalised leased assets Borrowings are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the and the lease term.
consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses on a straight line basis over the lease term.
on derecognition are recognised in finance charges.
Investments in joint ventures and associates Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives, such as fixed to The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the floating interest rate swaps, are held as fair value hedges against fixed equity method.
The investment is carried in the balance sheet at cost interest rate borrowings.
Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the rate borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the change in associate, less any impairment in value or dividends received.
The fair value attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
Groups share of the results after interest and tax of the associate is included in profit from operations.
When an associate has recognised Financial derivatives a change in net assets other than through the income statement, the The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate Group recognises its share of the change and discloses it, when swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with applicable, in the statement of recognised income and expense.
interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate The Group has a number of jointly controlled operations where there is swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference no separate legal entity.
The expenses that the Group incurs, and the to market rates for similar instruments.
share of the income that the Group earns from the sale of goods by these jointly controlled operations, are included in the income statement.
The assets that the Group controls, and the liabilities that the Group incurs, in respect of these jointly controlled operations are included in the balance sheet.
61 Group accounting policies continued Hedges are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Pensions and other employee benefits exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
The Group operates three major defined benefit pension schemes, plus a number of smaller defined benefit pension schemes.
The cost In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps of providing benefits under the schemes is determined separately for held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which each scheme using the projected unit actuarial valuation method.
meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised Liabilities of the schemes are discounted by the current rate of return of immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged an AA-rated corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying liabilities.
Assets of the schemes are measured at fair value at the balance amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Actuarially calculated surpluses or deficits on the defined benefit schemes are included within the consolidated balance sheet.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains The current service cost of each of the schemes is charged against profit or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the from operations.
Expected returns on defined benefit scheme assets income statement.
and interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities are included as finance income and finance costs respectively.
With effect from 1 April 2004, the Net investment hedges Group has adopted the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits that The Group designates certain foreign currency borrowings as hedges permits actuarial gains and losses to be charged or credited directly to of net investments in foreign operations.
Any gain or loss on foreign equity through the statement of recognised income and expense.
currency borrowings designated in an effective hedging relationship is recognised in equity: any gain or loss relating to an ineffective portion In addition, the Group operates a number of defined contribution of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on disposal or impairment of the foreign operation.
Employee benefits other than post-employment benefits that can be carried forward if they have not been used are accrued as they are Convertible bonds earned until the benefit is paid or used.
Those employee benefits that The component of the guaranteed convertible bonds that exhibits are foregone if not taken at the time are expensed when incurred.
characteristics of a liability is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, net of issue costs.
On issue of the guaranteed convertible bonds, the fair Revenue value of the liability component was determined using a market rate for an Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is carried as a liability on benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before As the convertible bonds are denominated in US dollars but are revenue is recognised: convertible to sterling shares, the remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised and included as a derivative Sale of goods: revenue is recognised when the significant risks and liability, net of issue costs.
The value of the conversion option is revalued rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can to fair value at each balance sheet date, with movements in fair value be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at fair value after making reflected as finance costs or finance income.
provision in respect of expected future returns of goods and services supplied by the Group prior to the balance sheet date: Issue costs were apportioned between the liability and derivative components of the guaranteed convertible bonds based on the Royalty and other income: all royalty and other income is recognised allocation of proceeds to the liability and derivative components when the when it has been earned and can be reliably measured.
Interest income is recognised when it has been earned and can be Embedded call feature reliably measured.
The host contract of the 425m 8.625% senior notes allows the Group to redeem the debt at fixed redemption prices on or after 15 October 2008.
Share-based payments The share option programme allows certain Group employees to acquire On issue of the 425m 8.625% senior notes, the fair value of the liability shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised component was determined using market rates.
This amount is carried as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on redemption.
fair value is measured at grant date and the expense is spread over the The difference between the fair value of the liability component and fair period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to value of the senior notes represents the embedded call feature that the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a is recognised and included as a financial asset on the balance sheet.
binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions The call feature is revalued to fair value at each balance sheet date, with upon which the options were granted.
movements in fair value reflected as finance exceptional costs or finance exceptional income.
The amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number Provisions of awards that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where the vesting is legal or constructive as a result of a past event, when it is probable that conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided to settle the obligation and when a reliable estimate can be made of the that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, Employees of certain subsidiaries of the Group participate in the the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the employee share incentive plans and the Group has an employee share reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision trust to satisfy non-transferable options granted to executives and senior is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are effect of the time value of money on the quantification of the provision is treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future deduction from equity.
cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to the passage of time is recognised as finance costs.
equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 1 January 2005.
62 Finance charges Exceptional items and amortisation Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using Exceptional items and amortisation are excluded from underlying results the effective interest rate method, foreign exchange losses and losses in order to provide a better understanding of the normalised trading of the on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement and Group.
The Group considers that such items would fall into either of two interest payable on defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
categories: operating exceptional items and amortisation: and finance exceptional items.
Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested calculated using the effective interest rate method, foreign exchange The Group defines operating exceptional items and amortisation as gains and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the items which derive either from events or transactions that it considers fall income statement and the expected rate of return on defined benefit outwith the ordinary activities of the Group or from events or transactions pension scheme assets.
that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed separately by virtue Income tax of their size or incidence if the financial statements are to give a true and Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and fair view.
Similarly, the Group defines finance exceptional items as items deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except which derive either from events or transactions that it considers fall to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which outwith the ordinary financing activities of the Group or from events or case it is recognised in equity.
transactions that fall within the ordinary financing activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statements are to give a true and fair view.
balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Events or transactions that the Group would consider as falling outwith its ordinary activities could include, but are not limited to: the revaluation Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences between the and or disposal of property, plant and equipment: the revaluation carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and or disposal of held-to-maturity or available-for-sale investments or and the tax base.
The following temporary differences are not provided investments at fair value through profit and loss: the disposal and or for: the initial recognition of goodwill or of assets or liabilities that affect closure of a business, jointly controlled operation or associate: and the neither accounting nor taxable profit that is not a business combination: costs of a fundamental reorganisation or restructuring.
Events or and temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, transactions that the Group would consider as falling within its ordinary joint ventures and associates where the timing of the reversal of the activities but which need to be disclosed separately could include, but are temporary difference can be controlled and to the extent that it is not limited to: the amortisation and impairment of music copyrights and probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable intangibles: the impairment of goodwill: and the impairment of the cost future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected of an investment in a business, jointly controlled operation or associate.
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and Events or transactions that the Group would consider as falling outwith liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance its ordinary financing activities could include, but are not limited to: gains sheet date.
or losses on the revaluation of derivative financial instruments: gains or losses on the retranslation of foreign currency-denominated borrowings A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable to the extent that they do not provide a hedge against foreign currencythat future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can denominated investments: and gains or losses from the ineffectiveness be utilised.
of the interest rate swaps hedge.
Events or transactions that the Group would consider as falling within its ordinary financing activities but which Segments need to be disclosed separately could include, but are not limited to, A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in costs incurred as part of the Groups refinancing programmes.
providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those segments operating in other economic environments.
