Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Enodis plc is a company incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act 1985.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and its committees and as interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to the Group as adopted for use in the European Union EU, and therefore comply with Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, pensions, other post employment benefits and share-based payments.
The Groups income statement prepared under IFRS is presented in accordance with IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
IAS1 does not provide definitive guidance on the format of the income statement but states key lines that should be disclosed.
It also requires additional line items, sub-totals and headings to be presented on the face of the income statement when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entitys financial performance.
Factors to be considered include materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense.
Exceptional items are defined as those that are material in nature or amount and non-recurring.
The Group also separately reports the amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
These items are disclosed separately in the Groups consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to the comparative results in order to conform to the 2007 presentation.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise control control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities are accounted for as subsidiary entities subsidiaries and where the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence, they are accounted for as joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of controlled subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
On consolidation the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average rate for the month in which they arose.
Differences arising from the restatement of opening foreign currency net investments or from the date of control in the case of acquisitions made during the year and foreign currency borrowings to the rate ruling at the balance sheet date are taken directly to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
In addition, exchange differences arising from the retranslation of overseas profit and losses from average rate to closing rate are taken directly to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expense in the financial period in which the related operations are disposed of.
Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations are included within operating profit loss.
72 | Enodis plc | Notes to the consolidated financial statements
