Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Contingent liabilities a Enodis Corporation and several other parties have been named in a lawsuit filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Indiana, Freeland v. Enodis, et al.
In the case, the bankruptcy trustee sought to hold Enodis Corporation liable as the alter ego of its former subsidiary Consolidated Industries Corporation Consolidated, for the debts and other liabilities of Consolidated.
Enodis Corporation sold Consolidated to an unrelated party in 1998.
Shortly after the sale, Consolidated commenced bankruptcy proceedings.
In addition to the alter ego claim, the trustee asserted a variety of bankruptcy and equitable claims seeking to recover up to $37m paid by Consolidated to the Enodis Group between 1988 and 1998.
As previously discussed in our 2004 Annual Report, on 7 January 2003, the United States District Court entered a partial summary judgement for $8.6m against Enodis Corporation in relation to the complaint by the trustee that the purchase price paid to Enodis for the share capital of Consolidated was a fraudulent transfer under US bankruptcy law.
On 28 July 2004, the Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion dismissing all claims against all defendants other than Enodis Corporation, and held that the trustee was not entitled to assert the alter ego claims against Enodis Corporation.
However, the Court also held that the trustee was entitled to recover $30m paid by Consolidated, plus prejudgement interest, for a total of approximately $43m.
This judgement is in addition to the summary judgement issued by the United States District Court in 2003.
Enodis Corporation appealed the adverse portion of the decision of the Bankruptcy Court and the previous adverse decision of the District Court.
On 31 October 2006 the District Court upheld the rulings of the Bankruptcy Court with respect to the dismissal of all claims against the defendants other than Enodis, the denial of the trustees alter ego claim against Enodis and the judgement against Enodis.
Both Enodis and the trustee appealed the courts judgements to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
Briefing and oral argument of the appeal are complete, and the parties are awaiting the decision of the court.
The Directors, having reconfirmed advice from external legal counsel after the District Court issued its decision, still believe the adverse portions of the decisions of the District Court to be in error, and further believe it is probable that Enodis appeals will be successful.
The Group is also involved in other Consolidated lawsuits alleging total damage claims of $6.2m.
These claims are currently pending and we continue to defend them vigorously.
Other parties in cases pending against Consolidated have threatened to sue Enodis Corporation as Consolidateds alter ego.
Currently, however, no party other than the trustee is actively pursuing this theory against Enodis Corporation.
b Enodis is currently undergoing a routine Internal Revenue Service IRS audit of its FY04 and FY05 federal income tax returns.
Information has been requested in respect of a number of items including Net Operating Losses NOLs.
During the late 1980s and early 1990s the company incurred significant taxable losses principally in respect of real estate transactions in New York.
The utilisation of these NOLs resulted in our US federal tax liabilities being reduced by approximately $96m between FY04 and FY07.
The IRS has raised certain questions in relation to the NOLs and could assert that some of the benefit should not have been taken.
The company is confident of its filing position.
c There are customary taxes and other warranties and indemnities in respect of companies and businesses sold in previous years.
30 Lease obligations a Obligations under finance leases: From time to time the Group enters into finance leases for certain items of property, plant and equipment.
The following amounts are payable under the Groups finance leases: Minimum lease Present value of payments minimum lease payments 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Within one year 0.2 0.2 Greater than one year but not greater than five years 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.8 Greater than five years 1.0 1.3 0.4 0.5 1.9 2.3 1.1 1.3 Less future finance charges 0.8 1.0 Present value of lease obligations 1.1 1.3 Disclosed as: Non-current liabilities note 21 1.1 1.3 0.1m 2006: 0.2m of the Groups finance lease obligations relate to plant and machinery with the balance of 1.0m 2006: 1.1m relating to land and buildings.
The above leases cover a range of lease terms and borrowing rates.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
108 | Enodis plc | Notes to the consolidated financial statements
