Notes to the Company financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
These financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom generally accepted accounting standards which have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding period, except for where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting pronouncements during the current period.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by FRS26 Financial instruments: Measurement.
The Company has adopted UITF44 Group and treasury share transactions in these financial statements.
Where a parent entity grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, UITF44 requires the subsidiary to record an expense for such compensation in accordance with FRS20 Share-based payments, with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, in the financial statements of the parent Enodis plc, the Company has recognised an addition to fixed asset investments of the aggregate amount of these contributions for all grants of equity instruments made subsequent to 7 November 2002.
The increase in respect to FY07 was 0.9m.
The adoption of this pronouncement has required the restatement of the comparative results, where 3.5m was recognised as the opening adjustment at the start of FY06, with a further 1.6m recognised in respect of FY06.
Investments All investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
The Company adopted FRS26 from 2 October 2005, as a result of which the current asset investments are categorised as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value from that date.
Changes in fair value are taken directly to reserves and recycled to profit and loss when the investment is sold or is determined to be impaired.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Taxation Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences that result in obligations at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that the asset will be recovered.
Share-based payments The Company has no employees.
However it has a number of share-based payment arrangements with the employees of subsidiary companies.
As these arrangements are not with the direct employees of the Company, FRS20 is not applicable to these individual financial statements.
Disclosure of the option arrangements is included in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared under IFRS2 Share-based payment, which FRS20 embodies.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised at fair value on a trade date basis when the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the individual financial instruments.
Loans and receivables and other liabilities are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale assets are held at fair value with changes in fair value taken to equity.
On disposal of the related asset, the accumulated gains or losses recorded in equity are included in the gain or loss recorded in profit and loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Cash flow statement The results, assets and liabilities of the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company, which accompany these individual financial statements.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 revised, Cash flow statements.
Notes to the Company financial statements | Enodis plc | 115
