Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Enodis plc is a company incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act 1985.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and its committees and as interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to the Group as adopted for use in the European Union EU, and therefore comply with Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, pensions, other post employment benefits and share-based payments.
The Groups income statement prepared under IFRS is presented in accordance with IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
IAS1 does not provide definitive guidance on the format of the income statement but states key lines that should be disclosed.
It also requires additional line items, sub-totals and headings to be presented on the face of the income statement when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entitys financial performance.
Factors to be considered include materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense.
Exceptional items are defined as those that are material in nature or amount and non-recurring.
The Group also separately reports the amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
These items are disclosed separately in the Groups consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to the comparative results in order to conform to the 2007 presentation.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise control control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities are accounted for as subsidiary entities subsidiaries and where the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence, they are accounted for as joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of controlled subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
On consolidation the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average rate for the month in which they arose.
Differences arising from the restatement of opening foreign currency net investments or from the date of control in the case of acquisitions made during the year and foreign currency borrowings to the rate ruling at the balance sheet date are taken directly to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
In addition, exchange differences arising from the retranslation of overseas profit and losses from average rate to closing rate are taken directly to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expense in the financial period in which the related operations are disposed of.
Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations are included within operating profit loss.
72 | Enodis plc | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts and allowances, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of contractual and historical information.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when evidence of an arrangement exists, all the risks and rewards of ownership and loss have transferred to the customer, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
Revenue from the installation of products is recognised when the installation is complete, while service revenue is recognised over the period to which services are rendered.
Revenue from the sale of extended warranty cover is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract.
Property revenue is recognised at fair value of the consideration received or receivable on legal completion.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial assets to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure on new or substantially improved products will be capitalised only once the criteria specified under IAS38 Intangible Assets have been met which, among other requirements, requires the technical feasibility of the developed product having being proven.
Prior to and during the 52 weeks ended on 29 September 2007, no development expenditure satisfied the necessary conditions of IAS38.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method and are spread over the period during which the benefit is expected to be derived from the employees services, in accordance with the advice of professionally qualified actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured at the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period that they arise.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
The costs of other post-retirement liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and are spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees services, in accordance with the advice of  actuaries.
Borrowing costs The Groups policy is not to capitalise interest costs for qualifying assets during their construction.
Taxation Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Credit is taken for Advance Corporation Tax written-off in previous years when it is recoverable against current corporation tax liabilities.
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences and any brought forward tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Enodis plc | 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Acquisitions and disposals The Group applies the purchase method of accounting for the acquisition of a business, including joint ventures.
Under this approach, fair values are attributed to the Groups share of net separable assets acquired.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given and liabilities incurred plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Where the cost of the net assets acquired exceeds the fair value attributable to such net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
On the subsequent disposal of a previously acquired business, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated by deducting from the net proceeds the carrying amount of any related goodwill, net assets, foreign exchange gains and losses previously held in reserves and charging any related transaction costs.
Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures subsequent to 1998 has been capitalised.
In the case of acquisitions that arose during or before December 1998, goodwill was written-off directly to equity.
Goodwill recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet is denominated in the currency of the related acquisition and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and amounts previously amortised.
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite useful life and is not subject to an annual amortisation charge.
Instead, goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Other intangible assets Assets presented under other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Acquisition Intangibles are defined as those arising on consolidation in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations as well as IAS38 Intangible Assets.
Other intangible assets include: Software: The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal use are capitalised as intangible fixed assets where the software supports significant business systems and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
Depreciation on software is calculated to write-off the cost to the expected residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the expected useful lives as follows: Enterprise Resource Planning software: 14.3% p. a.
Purchased patents and brands: These are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 6.7%20% p. a.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is charged so as to write-off the cost, other than assets in the course of construction, to the expected residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the expected useful lives as follows: Freehold land: nil.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings: 1%2% p. a.
Short leasehold properties: over the unexpired period of the lease.
The Group does not capitalise any borrowing costs during the construction of items of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets relating to a finance lease are recognised at their fair value on acquisition, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest over the lease term.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
74 | Enodis plc | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of work-in-progress and finished goods includes an appropriate portion of manufacturing overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents fair value less costs to sell.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Legal and other disputes Provision is made for anticipated settlement costs where the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
No provision is made for other unasserted claims.
Share-based payments Incentives in the form of share-based payments are provided to employees under the Groups share option and performance share plan schemes.
Based on the transitional exemptions under IFRS, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS2 Share-based Payment retrospectively to share options granted prior to 7 November 2002.
Options and Performance Shares granted after 7 November 2002 are measured at fair value on the date of grant.
Fair value of share options granted are calculated using the Black-Scholes pricing model, as well as incorporating a discount for the schemes market based performance conditions.
The fair value of Performance Shares is calculated using a stochastic valuation model which takes account of the schemes market based performance conditions.
The fair value of the Groups share-based payments are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the related vesting period.
Operating profit loss Operating profit loss includes revenue less related cost of sales, distribution and administration expenses, corporate costs and other operating items.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit and loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their initial fair value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their initial fair value.
Investments Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Groups balance sheet at cost and are adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the joint ventures net assets.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition of the joint venture over its net assets at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included within investments.
Any impairment in the carrying value of the joint venture, including goodwill, is recognised immediately see impairment of non-current assets.
The Groups US pension investments in non-qualified pension arrangements Rabbi Trusts, where the Group sets aside funds specifically for payment of pensions or deferred compensation, are shown at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit and loss.
Defeasance trust assets are classified under IAS39 as assets available for sale and held at fair value.
Changes in fair value are taken to equity.
On disposal of the related asset, the accumulated changes in value recorded in equity are included in the gain or loss recorded in the income statement.
Other loans and receivables are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under contract.
Initial recognition is measured at cost including transaction costs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Enodis plc | 75
