Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Parent Company financial statements are Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under Directors are required to: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by select suitable accounting policies and then apply them law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act consistently: 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been statements present fairly for each financial year the Company's followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires explained in the financial statements: and the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the continue in business.
preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Parent properly select and apply accounting policies: Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
information: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity provide additional disclosures when compliance with the of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation to understand the impact of particular transactions, other and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation events and conditions on the entitys financial position and in other jurisdictions.
DRHooper Secretary 19 November 2007 Statement of Directors responsibilities | Enodis plc | 65
