Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting From time to time, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange, interest or pricing risks.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group applies hedge accounting see note 22 to most of its hedging relationships.
Under IAS39, derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the Groups balance sheet at fair value including transaction costs, based on either market values of equivalent instruments or the present value of expected future cash flows.
The fair value is then remeasured at each subsequent balance sheet date.
Hedging derivatives are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
Amounts deferred in equity are released when the forecast hedged transaction impacts profit and loss.
Any ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are recognised in the income statement immediately.
Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Revisions to IFRS not applicable in FY07 At the date of approval of these financial statements, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments was in issue by the IASB and endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS7 relates to the disclosure of financial instruments and is applicable for the Groups FY08 financial statements, with restatement of the current FY07 disclosures.
Additionally, the Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have been issued by the IASB, but have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS8 Operating Segments is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, with early application permitted.
If endorsed for use in the EU the Group currently intends to adopt this standard from the start of FY10.
This standard is not expected to significantly impact the Group but may change the Groups disclosure in relation to segmental information.
IAS23 Revised, Borrowing Costs is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, with early application permitted.
The revisions to IAS23 remove the option of immediately expensing borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Borrowing costs are required to be capitalised as part of the cost of such assets.
The revisions of IAS23 are applicable to qualifying assets with a capitalisation date on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of adoption of this standard on the Groups results and financial position.
IAS1 Revised, Presentation of Financial Statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, with early application permitted.
IAS1 Revised relates to the terminology, disclosure and presentation of financial information in the Groups financial statements.
If these revisions are endorsed by the EU, the Group intends to adopt this standard from the start of FY10.
The Group does not consider that any other Standards or Interpretations in issue, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on its financial statements.
2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 1, the Group has made certain judgements and estimates.
The most significant of these that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of the Groups assets and liabilities within the next financial year are described below: Warranty liabilities The Group records warranty liabilities for the amount that it estimates as the costs that it expects to incur under product warranties given in connection with the sale of its products.
The warranty liabilities recorded as at 29 September 2007 totalled 26.7m 2006: 29.6m.
The specific warranty terms and conditions vary depending on the product sold and country where the sale is made, but generally includes repair or replacement parts and labour for periods of one to three years, but in some cases this may be longer.
Factors that affect the Groups warranty liabilities include the number of units under warranty, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims on those units and estimated costs to satisfy the Groups warranty obligations.
Each period, the Group re-evaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of the recorded warranty liabilities.
76 | Enodis plc | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Save for any unforeseen warranty issues arising in the future, the Group expects that its existing warranty rates are applicable to determine future warranty liabilities.
As a result of uncertainties in predicting warranty claim rates, if the Group experiences a warranty claim rate greater than what it has provided for, then it would need to increase its warranty liability, which could have a material adverse affect on its future profit loss and cash flows.
Conversely, if it was to experience a warranty claim rate lower than expected, this could have a material favourable impact on its future profit loss and cash flows.
Goodwill impairment As at 29 September 2007, the Group had goodwill of 175.3m recognised on its balance sheet 2006: 179.9m.
The Groups goodwill balances are subject to an annual impairment test.
In determining whether there has been a goodwill impairment, the Group is required to review the fair value of each of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
Fair values are determined based upon discounted cash flow valuation methods as well as considering the Groups market capitalisation.
Consequently, any adverse differences between actual cash flows and estimated cash flows, and changes in discount rates could require goodwill impairments to be recognised in the future.
Litigation From time to time, the Group is subject to lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Groups policy is to accrue for estimated legal costs associated with such lawsuits.
These estimates are developed in consultation with the Groups external counsel handling the Groups defence in these matters.
If the lawsuits and claims were ultimately determined in a manner adverse to the Group and in excess of established accruals, or if the legal costs associated with these contingencies exceeded the Groups estimates, the Group would be required to record additional expenses or provisions which could have a material effect on the Groups future profit loss and cash flows.
Additional information about the Groups litigation is included in note 29.
Non-operational properties On several properties that it no longer uses, the Group is subject to non-cancellable leases expiring out to 2017.
The Group records a provision equal to the amounts payable under these leases in excess of the estimated income from sub-letting these properties in the future.
The Groups closing provision was 4.4m at 29 September 2007 2006: 5.2m and was determined based upon assessments of the remaining terms and payments due under these leases, as well as advice from external surveyors and realtors regarding the marketability of properties and, therefore, the likely level of future sub-lease income.
If the Group is unable to achieve anticipated sub-lease income, it would be required to record additional expenses that could have a material effect on its future profit loss and cash flows.
Retirement benefits The Group has a number of defined benefit pension and other post-retirement arrangements, as described in note 28.
As at 29 September 2007 the Group had a net pension deficit of 13.5m 2006: 12.4m for its defined benefit and other post-retirement obligations.
The annual expected costs of providing benefits under these arrangements are charged to the income statement, with any subsequent actuarial gains and losses that arise from differences between the expected and actual outcomes, or changes in actuarial assumptions, being recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set after consultation with independent, qualified actuaries.
While management believes the assumptions used are appropriate, the use of different assumptions would impact the Groups earnings and carrying value of these pension and other post-retirement arrangements.
Taxation As part of the process of preparing the Groups financial statements, management is required to calculate income tax accruals.
This process involves estimates of the current tax exposures together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the balance sheet.
Management judgement is required in determining the provision for income tax and the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities: however the actual tax liabilities could differ from the amounts accrued.
In such an event, the Group would be required to make an adjustment in a future period and this could impact the Groups financial position and its results of operations.
As at 29 September 2007, the Group had a corporate tax liability of 11.0m 2006: 12.1m.
While the Group aims to ensure the accruals for its tax liabilities are accurate, the process of agreeing tax liabilities with the tax authorities can take several years.
In these cases, there may be instances where the process of agreeing tax liabilities results in the requirement to adjust accruals previously recorded.
As at 29 September 2007, the Group had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities of 33.4m 2006: 49.1m.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the recognised deferred tax assets can be utilised.
The recovery of deferred tax assets depends upon the Groups ability to generate suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences or brought forward tax losses can be benefited.
In circumstances where sufficient taxable profits are not expected to arise, the related deferred tax assets have not been recognised.
If the Group does not have suitable taxable profits in the future to recover deferred tax assets that have been recognised, then the Group could experience a material adverse effect on its profit or loss.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Enodis plc | 77
