 13 12 07 11:38 Page 120 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the George, Mr A J Stewart and Mrs S E Murray are retiring Company to be held on Thursday, 17 January and seeking reappointment.
Biographical information 2008 is set out on pages 116 to 119 of the for Mr G E Tuppen, Mr D C George, Mr A J Stewart and annual report and accounts.
The following notes Mrs S E Murray is shown on pages 13 and 14 of the provide an explanation as to why the resolutions annual report and accounts.
Details of why the Board set out in the notice are to be put to believes they should be re-elected are included in the shareholders.
directors report in the annual report and accounts, starting at page 15.
Resolutions 1 to 10 are ordinary resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed if more than 50% Resolution 8 Auditors appointment of the votes cast for or against are in favour.
The 1985 Act requires that auditors be appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to Resolution 1 Laying of Accounts hold office until the next such meeting.
The resolution The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 seeks shareholder approval for the reappointment of the 1985 Act to present to the shareholders of the Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee keeps under Company at a general meeting the reports of the review the independence and objectivity of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the external auditors, further information on which can be Company, for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The found in the annual report and accounts on page 24. report of the directors and the audited accounts have After considering relevant information the Audit been approved by the directors, and the report of the Committee recommended to the Board of directors auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed.
copy of each of these documents may be found in the annual report and accounts, starting at page 1.
Resolution 9 Auditors remuneration This resolution gives the directors the authority to Resolution 2 Remuneration Report determine the remuneration of the auditors for the The 1985 Act requires the Company to seek audit work to be carried out by them in the next shareholder approval for the Directors Remuneration financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to Report at the general meeting before which the the auditors for the next financial year will be Companys annual accounts are laid.
The Directors disclosed in the next audited accounts of the Remuneration Report is included in the annual report Company.
and accounts, starting at page 30.
If shareholders vote against the report the directors will still be paid, but Resolution 10 Authority to the directors to the Remuneration Committee will reconsider its allot shares policy.
Under the 1985 Act the directors may only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
If Resolution 3 Declaration of a Final Dividend passed, this resolution will authorise the directors to An interim dividend of 5.2 pence net has already allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate been paid in respect of the 2006 2007 financial year.
nominal value of 4,232,721.98 up to 169,308,879 The directors are recommending a final dividend of new ordinary shares of 2 pence each, which is equal 10.4 pence net per ordinary share of 2 pence, to approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued payable on 21 January 2008 to holders on the register share capital of the Company excluding treasury as at 6.00 p. m. on 28 December 2007.
The final shares as at 30 November 2007, being the latest dividend will not be paid without shareholder approval practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
and its amount may not exceed the amount The authority will expire 15 months after the date of recommended by the directors.
passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7 Reappointment of conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Mr G E Tuppen, Mr D C George, Mr A J Stewart Company in 2009. and Mrs S E Murray Passing this resolution will continue the directors The Companys articles of association require that any flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, director who was not appointed or reappointed at when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
The either of the last two annual general meetings before directors currently have no intention of issuing new this meeting must retire, although they may offer shares.
Mr G E Tuppen, Mr D C 120 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 144  13 12 07 11:38 Page 121 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting As at 30 November 2007, the latest practicable date practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
prior to the publication of the notice, the Company The price per ordinary share that the Company may had 557,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each in pay is set at a minimum amount excluding expenses issue and held 50,000,000 treasury shares, which is of 2 pence per ordinary share and a maximum equal to approximately 9.84% of the issued share amount excluding expenses of the higher of: i 5% capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as over the average of the previous five days middle at that date.
market prices: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current Resolutions 11, 12, and 13 are special independent bid on the trading venue where the resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed if purchase is carried out.
This authority will only be not less than 75% of the votes cast for and exercised if market conditions make it advantageous against are in favour.
Resolution 11 Disapplication of statutory On 20 November 2007 the Company announced its pre-emption rights intention to continue its rolling share buy-back If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first programme.
The directors intend to use the authority offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to granted pursuant to this resolution in pursuance of the their current holdings, in compliance with their share buy-back programme.
Further details of the statutory pre-emption rights.
If passed, this resolution share buy-back programme are set out in the will authorise the directors to modify these rights to Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that Review in the annual report and accounts, starting may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or at page 2. issue.
The directors present intention is that shares The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to purchased pursuant to this authority will be cancelled issue a limited number of shares for cash and or sell immediately on purchase.
Alternatively, the shares treasury shares without offering them to shareholders may be held in treasury provided any treasury shares first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount held do not exceed 10% of the Companys issued of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of share capital, sold for cash or provided Listing Rule the issued share capital of the Company as at requirements are met transferred to an employee 30 November 2007, the latest practicable date prior to share scheme.
The effect of any cancellation would be the publication of the notice up to 27,898,871 new to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most ordinary shares of 2 pence.
The resolution complies purposes, while held in treasury shares are treated as with investor protection guidelines, which limit any if they have been cancelled for example, they carry issue to 5% of issued share capital in any one year.
no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
The The authority will expire at the same time as the directors will only make purchases under this authority to allot shares given pursuant to resolution authority whether or not under the rolling share buy- 10. back programme if they believe that to do so would The directors consider this authority necessary in order result in an increased earnings per share and would be to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as in the interests of shareholders generally.
they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the As at 30 November 2007, the latest practicable date resolution.
prior to the publication of the notice, options were outstanding over 8,876,496 ordinary shares of 2 Resolution 12 Purchase of own shares by the pence each in the Company, representing Company approximately 1.75% of the issued share capital of the If passed, this resolution will grant the Company Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
If authority for a period of up to 15 months after the the proposed market purchase authority were used in date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares full, shares over which options were outstanding in the market.
The resolution limits the number of would, as at that date, represent approximately 2.06% shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the of the Companys issued share capital excluding Companys issued share capital excluding treasury treasury shares.
shares as at 30 November 2007, the latest Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 121 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6  13 12 07 11:38 Page 122 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 Adoption of new Articles Electronic Shareholder Communications It is proposed in resolution 13 to adopt new articles of If you wish to continue receiving the Companys association the New Articles in order to update the shareholder information e. g. Annual Report, Annual Companys current articles of association the Current Review, Notice of Meeting, Form of Proxy and Articles, primarily to take account of changes in Circulars in hard copy, please complete the English company law brought about by the Companies Shareholder Communications Election Form by Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
This Form should be returned to the registrars in the envelope provided by no later The principal changes introduced in the New Articles than 28 February 2008.
Please read the notes on the are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a Form carefully before deciding which option to minor, technical or clarifying nature, and also some choose.
If you do not return your Form by this date more minor changes which merely reflect changes then, subject to the passing of resolution 13, you will made by the 2006 Act, have not been noted below.
be deemed to have consented to receive such A copy of the Current and New Articles will be information via the Companys website and you will available for inspection during normal business hours be notified by post or, on Monday to Friday public holidays excepted at the where you have previously registered online at registered office of the Company from the date of www.
com investor, electronically posting of this document up to and including the date whenever documentation is available.
If you of the Annual General Meeting, and will also be would prefer to be notified electronically and available at the place of the Annual General Meeting you have not previously registered online at for at least 15 minutes before, and during, the www.
com investor please read meeting.
option A on the Shareholder Communications Election Form and register online at The New Articles will permit the Company to use www.
com investor and we shall send electronic communications for all notices, documents you an email notifying you whenever a document has and information to be sent to shareholders, in been made available on the website.
accordance with individual shareholder preference.
In Shareholders may amend their instructions or provide addition, the New Articles will enable the Company to new instructions at any time by notice in writing to use website communication with shareholders as the Computershare Investors Services PLC, The Pavilions, default position.
In order to take advantage of these changes introduced by the 2006 Act, and subject to the Summary of Principal Changes to the Current passing of this resolution at the Annual General Articles Meeting, the Company is asking each individual 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions shareholder for their consent to receive Provisions in the Current Articles that replicate communications from the Company via the provisions contained in the 2006 Act are in the Companys website.
We have enclosed with this main to be amended to bring them into line with document a Shareholder Communications Election the 2006 Act.
Certain examples of such provisions Form, which outlines the options available to you with include provisions as to the form of resolutions, regard to receiving further communications from the the variation of class rights, the requirement to Company.
Please read the notes on the Shareholder keep accounting records and provisions regarding Communications Election Form carefully before the period of notice required to convene general deciding which option to choose.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
A shareholder who has received a document electronically will be able to ask for a hard copy at 2.
Form of resolution any time and shareholders will be able to revoke their The Current Articles contain a provision that, consent to receive electronic communications at where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is any time.
required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also 122 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 144  13 12 07 11:38 Page 123 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting effective.
This provision is being amended, as the 6.
Votes of members concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been Under the 2006 Act proxies are entitled to vote on retained under the 2006 Act.
a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The Current Articles enable members to act by Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that written resolution.
Under the 2006 Act public each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
attached to a different share held by the These provisions have therefore been removed in shareholder.
The New Articles reflect these new the New Articles.
Age of directors on appointment Currently, a company can only change its name by The Current Articles contain a provision requiring a special resolution.
Under the 2006 Act a company directors age to be disclosed if he has attained will be able to change its name by other means the age of 70 years or more in the notice provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of convening a meeting at which the director is this provision, the New Articles will enable the proposed to be elected or re-elected.
Such directors to pass a resolution to change the provision could now fall foul of the Employment Companys name once the relevant provisions in Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been the 2006 Act are in force.
removed from the New Articles.
Redeemable shares and consolidation, division 8.
Directors interests or sub-division The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties.
At present, if a company wishes to issue The provisions largely codify the existing law, but redeemable shares it must include in its articles with some changes.
Under provisions in the 2006 the terms and manner of redemption.
The 2006 Act, that are not yet in force, a director will have Act will enable directors to determine such to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a matters instead provided they are so authorised by direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly the articles.
The New Articles contain such an may conflict, with the companys interests.
The authorisation that will take effect once the requirement is very broad and could apply, for relevant provisions in the 2006 Act are in force.
example, if a director becomes a director of The Company has no plans to issue redeemable another company or a trustee of another shares but if it did so the directors would need organisation.
The 2006 Act will allow directors of shareholders authority to issue new shares in the public companies to authorise conflicts and usual way.
In addition, the New Articles permit the potential conflicts where the articles of association Company to retain for its own benefit the net contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act proceeds up to 5 of selling fractional will also allow the articles to contain other entitlements arising on a consolidation, division or provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of sub-division of its shares.
The increase from 3 interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles reflects the relevant Listing Rule.
will include provisions authorising the directors to 5.
Convening extraordinary and annual general approve such situations, and other provisions meetings allowing conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with similar way to the current position, once the the convening of general meetings and the length relevant provisions in the 2006 Act are in force.
of notice required to convene general meetings There are safeguards which will apply when are being removed in the New Articles because directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or the relevant matters are provided for in the 2006 potential conflict.
First, only independent directors Act.
In particular, an extraordinary general meeting i. e. those who have no interest in the matter to consider a special resolution can be convened being considered will be able to take the relevant on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the notice was required and the chairman of a general directors must act in a way they consider, in good meeting no longer has a casting vote.
faith, will be most likely to promote the Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 123 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6  13 12 07 11:38 Page 124 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Companys success.
The directors will be able to 10.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund impose limits or conditions when giving expenditure authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a The New Articles also contain provisions relating directors defence in court proceedings has been to confidential information, attendance at Board widened to cover regulatory proceedings and meetings and availability of Board papers to applies also to associated companies.
protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest The existing authority to indemnify the Companys arises.
These provisions will take effect when the auditor has been deleted and accordingly the new conflicts provisions of the 2006 Act come directors will not approve the granting of any such into force and will only apply where the position indemnity by the Company.
giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is not clear what best practice will be when the new conflicts provisions in the 2006 Act do come into force.
The directors have decided that the New Articles should contain the provisions outlined above in case the 2006 Act provisions come into force before the next opportunity to amend the New Articles.
The directors believe that these provisions will not prevent them from complying with best practice as it emerges in relation to the authorisation of conflicts of interest which is what they intend to do.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the 2006 Act which came into force in 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 14414ENTERPRI CVRS:Layout 1 13 12 07 11:44 Page 2 The Enterprise Inns Board Contents Financial Highlights 1 Chairmans Statement 2 Chief Executives Review incorporating the business review 3 Corporate Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 13 Directors Report 15 Corporate Governance 22 Directors Remuneration Report 30 Group Income Statement 40 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 41 Group Balance Sheet 42 Group Cash Flow Statement 43 Notes to the Group Accounts 44 Church House Group Audit Report 79 George Inn Five Year Record 81 Left to right: Hubert Reid, Chairman CHURCH HOUSE INN, BOLLINGTON Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 83 David George, Chief Financial Officer WINNER Community Pub of the Year Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 84 Susan Murray, Non-executive director Morning Advertiser Awards 2007 Company Balance Sheet 85 Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive GEORGE INN, FROCESTER In the ultimate demonstration of community spirit, a group of villagers David Harding, Non-executive director Cash Flow Statement 86 WINNER Pub of the Year 2007 Simon Townsend, Chief Operating Officer decided to take over the Church House Inn at Bollington.
The consortium of 12 Notes to the Company Accounts 87 Stroud & Gloucester CAMRA Jo Stewart, Non-executive director members has been successfully running the pub since February 2006 to make Company Directors Responsibilities 111 Licensee Jane Pains success at this traditional Cotswold Inn is the Church House Inn a true community pub in every sense.
Company Audit Report 112 down to the Georges place at the centre of village life, including Analysis of Shareholders 114 participating in the annual Frocester Beer Festival.
Financial Calendar 114 Shareholder Information 115 Notice of Annual General Meeting 116 CASTLE INN, CALDICOT Explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM 120 REGIONAL WINNER Wales Morning Advertiser Awards 2007 More award-winning Enterprise Since taking the lease in February 2005 Stephen and Judith Gribble licensees were recognised during have spent 100,000 on restoring the interior and turning an overgrown area into two play areas for children photo on back cover, the year for the quality of their transforming the Castle Inn into a great place for families.
businesses and their outstanding Castle Inn Caldicot entrepreneurial skills: BEST BAR NONE AWARDS 2007 These awards recognise licensees for their ability to provide an excellent customer experience in a safe and secure environment, whilst demonstrating the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.
Brook House BROOK HOUSE, HAYES WINNER Fundraising Pub of the Year Stansfield Arms Morning Advertiser Awards 2007 The fundraising skills of licensee Gary Gilchrist and the generosity of regulars at the Brook House raised a staggering 27,500 in a single day last year, reinforcing STANSFIELD ARMS, APPERLEY BRIDGE the Brook Houses place at the heart of its local WINNER Tenanted and Leased Pub of the Year community.
Morning Advertiser Awards 2007 High Corner Following on from their success in 2006, when they won Village Glamorgan Hotel Pub of the Year with Enterprise pub the Old White Beare in Norwood Green, twins Nick and Chris Green won the ultimate GLAMORGAN HOTEL, WILLIAMSTOWN HIGH CORNER, LLANHARAN accolade at the 424-year-old Stansfield Arms, where sales have WINNER Best Pub 2007 Best Bar None Awards WINNER Best Bar 2007 Best Bar None Awards grown by 85% in 2 years.
Darran Whitelock and Mark Easthope Tracey Knight and Colin Edrop Pictures front cover left to right back cover left to right Brickmakers, Norwich Castle Inn, Caldicot Cubanas, Barry Brook House, Hayes The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre Church House, Bollington Thorverton Arms, Thorverton 14414 06 12 2007 Cover Proof 10 14414 06 12 2007 Cover Proof 10 14414ENTERPRI CVRS:Layout 1 13 12 07 11:44 Page 1 Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
