 13 12 07 11:38 Page 116 Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice is important and requires your authority shall expire unless previously varied, immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt revoked or renewed by the Company in general about the action you should take, you should meeting 15 months after the date of the passing immediately consult your stockbroker, bank of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of manager, solicitor, accountant or other the Annual General Meeting of the Company in independent financial adviser duly authorised 2009, except that the Company may before such under the Financial Services and Markets expiry make an offer or agreement which would or Act 2000. might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot The 2008 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or Inns plc the Company will be held at the agreement as if the authority conferred by this offices of the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, resolution had not expired.
Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on 17 January 2008 for the following purposes: Special Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Ordinary Resolutions resolutions, which will be proposed as special To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 11.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 10, the directors be and are empowered pursuant to 1.
To receive the directors report and the audited section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot accounts for the year ended 30 September 2007 equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of and the auditors report on the accounts.
that Act for cash pursuant to the general authority 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report for conferred on them by resolution 10 and or to sell the year ended 30 September 2007. equity securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 162D of that Act, in each case 3.
To declare a final dividend of 10.4 pence per as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any ordinary share of the Company for the year ended such allotment or sale, provided that this power 30 September 2007, which shall be payable to shall be limited to: shareholders who are on the register of members a any such allotment and or sale of equity as at the close of business on 28 December 2007. securities in connection with an issue or offer 4.
To reappoint Mr G E Tuppen as a director.
by way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer, open for acceptance for a period fixed by 5.
To reappoint Mr D C George as a director.
the directors, to holders of ordinary shares 6.
To reappoint Mr A J Stewart as a director.
other than the Company on the register on any record date fixed by the directors in 7.
To reappoint Mrs S E Murray as a director.
proportion as nearly as may be to the 8.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the respective number of ordinary shares deemed Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the to be held by them, subject to such exclusions next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to 9.
To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & fractional entitlements, legal or practical Young LLPs remuneration as auditors of the problems arising in any overseas territory, the Company.
requirements of any regulatory body or stock 10.
THAT the directors be generally and exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise subsisting authorities to the extent unused to than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, of exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities for cash having, in the case of relevant securities within the meaning of section relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of 80 2 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an that Act, an aggregate nominal value, or, in aggregate nominal amount of 4,232,721.98.
This 116 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 144  13 12 07 11:38 Page 117 Notice of Annual General Meeting the case of other equity securities, giving the at any time before the expiry of this authority, right to subscribe for or convert into relevant enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares having an aggregate nominal value, not ordinary shares which would or might be exceeding in aggregate the sum of completed wholly or partly after such expiry and 697,471.78. purchase ordinary shares in accordance with such contract as if the authority conferred by this This authority shall expire, unless previously resolution had not expired.
renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general 13.
THAT the Articles of Association of the Company authority conferred on the directors by resolution contained in the document produced to the 10 expires, except that the Company may before Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the such expiry make an offer or agreement which purposes of identification be approved and would or might require equity securities to be adopted as the new Articles of Association of the allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion to be sold after such expiry and the directors may of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect allot equity securities and or sell equity securities from the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General held as treasury shares in pursuance of such offer Meeting.
or agreement as if the power conferred by this The directors believe that the proposals in resolution had not expired.
resolutions 1 to 13 are in the best interests of 12.
THAT the Company be and is generally and shareholders as a whole and they unanimously unconditionally authorised to make market recommend that you vote in favour of all the purchases as defined in section 163 3 of the resolutions.
Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 2 pence each provided that: On behalf of the Board i the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be acquired is 76,145,817: ii the minimum price per ordinary share that may D C George be paid for any such share excluding Company Secretary expenses is 2 pence: and 6 December 2007 iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share Registered office: shall not be more than the higher of: 3 Monkspath Hall Road A 105% of the average of the market values Solihull of such ordinary shares as derived from the West Midlands Daily Official List of the London Stock B90 4SJ Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase is made: and Registered in England and Wales No.
2562808 B that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003.
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009, except that the Company may, Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 117 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6  13 12 07 11:38 Page 118 Notice of Annual General Meeting proxy, in each case so that it is received no later Notes than 11.00 a. m. on 15 January 2008.
A shareholder of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak proxies through the CREST electronic proxy and vote instead of him.
A proxy does not need to appointment service may do so for the Annual be a shareholder of the Company.
You may appoint General Meeting and any adjournment s of the more than one proxy provided each proxy is meeting by using the procedures described in the appointed to exercise rights attached to different CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy CREST sponsored members and those CREST to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To members who have appointed any voting service appoint more than one proxy, you will need to provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or complete a separate proxy form in relation to each voting service provider s, who will be able to take appointment.
To request additional proxy forms, the appropriate action on their behalf.
please contact the Companys registrars.
You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction number of shares in relation to which the proxy is made using the CREST service to be valid, the appointed.
A failure to specify the number of appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy shares each proxy appointment relates to or Instruction must be properly authenticated in specifying a number of shares in excess of those accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds held by the member will result in the proxy specifications and must contain the information appointment being invalid.
required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
A personalised form of proxy for use in connection whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with or an amendment to the instruction given to a the document of which this notice forms part.
If previously appointed proxy must, in order to be you do not have a personalised form of proxy and valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the believe that you should, please contact the Companys agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for Companys registrars, Computershare Investor receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph Services PLC, on 0870 889 4080 or at 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, be taken to be the time as determined by the The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8FB.
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Completion and return of a form of proxy will not Applications Host from which the Companys preclude a shareholder from attending and voting agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to at the Annual General Meeting.
Addresses CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After including electronic addresses in this document this time any change of instructions to proxies are included strictly for the purposes specified and appointed through CREST should be not for any other purpose.
communicated to the appointee through other 3.
To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must means.
complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, CREST members and, where applicable, their together with the power of attorney or other CREST sponsors or voting service providers should authority if any under which it is signed, or a note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not notarially certified copy of such authority, to the make available special procedures in CREST for Companys registrars, Computershare Investor any particular messages.
Normal system timings Services PLC, PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, and limitations will therefore apply in relation to Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8FB: or b a CREST the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 4 below : responsibility of the CREST member concerned to or c an online proxy appointment at take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal www.
com uk voting etp you will member or sponsored member or has appointed need your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference any voting service provider s, to procure that his Number printed on your personalised form of CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s 118 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 144  13 12 07 11:38 Page 119 Notice of Annual General Meeting such action as is necessary to ensure that a 7.
Arrangements will be put in place at the meeting message is transmitted by means of the CREST so that, on a poll, if more than one corporate system by any particular time.
In this connection, representative for the same shareholder inputs CREST members and, where applicable, their instructions into an electronic voting handset or CREST sponsors or voting service providers are completes a poll card then one of those corporate referred, in particular, to those sections of the representatives is treated as the designated CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of corporate representative to cast or withhold votes the CREST system and timings.
on the poll and the other corporate representatives for that member give directions to that designated The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy corporate representative as to how the votes are to Instruction in the circumstances set out in be cast or withheld.
Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the directors service contracts or letters of appointment and of the directors remuneration 5.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated report are available for inspection at the Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives Companys registered office during normal notice that only those shareholders included in the business hours on any weekday excluding register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the on 15 January 2007 or, if the meeting is end of the Annual General Meeting and will also adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. be available for inspection at the place of the on the day which is two days before the day of any Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes adjourned meeting, will be entitled to attend and before and during the Annual General Meeting.
to vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names 9.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your at that time.
Changes to entries on the share ordinary shares in the Company, please forward register after 6.00 p. m. on 15 January 2007 or, if this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the meeting is adjourned, in the register of the stockbroker, bank or other person through members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is two whom the sale or transfer was effected for days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
be disregarded in determining the rights of any 10.
As at 9.00 a. m. on 30 November 2007, the person to attend or vote at the Annual General Companys issued share capital comprised Meeting.
557,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, only the appointment submitted by the most the total number of voting rights in the Company senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is as at 9.00 a. m. on 30 November 2007 is determined by the order in which the names of the 557,977,435. joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the firstnamed being the most senior.
