Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Critical accounting policies The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The Directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Filtronas performance and financial position.
i Pensions Filtrona accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 revised.
The application of IAS 19 revised requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used see note 18 and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes.
In consultation with Filtronas actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Filtronas circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
ii Intangible assets IFRS 3: Business combinations requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
iii Taxation Filtrona is required to use management judgement to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
iv Provisions Filtronas provisions are based on managements best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
By their nature these provisions are judgemental.
65 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
