Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 1.
Corporate information Experian Group Limited the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey under the Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares.
The shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities the London Stock Exchange.
Experian is a business services group.
The consolidated financial statements for the Group were approved by the Board on 22 May 2007.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are presented in US Dollars as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations.
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 4.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the financial statements of Experian Group Limited are included within the Group annual report and they are set out on pages 121 to 132.
These are presented in Pounds Sterling as that is the functional currency of that Company.
In determining its functional currency, the directors have taken account of the fact that the assets and liabilities and cash flows of Experian Group Limited are primarily denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The Company has elected to prepare its financial statements under UK accounting standards.
The consolidated financial statements of Experian Group Limited and its subsidiary undertakings Experian are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union the EU.
These are those standards, subsequent amendments and related interpretations issued and adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been endorsed by the European Union.
Although Experian Group Limited is incorporated and registered in Jersey under the Jersey Companies Law, the Group financial statements include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
On 10 October 2006, the separation of Experian and Home Retail Group was completed by way of demerger.
As part of the demerger, Experian Group Limited became the ultimate holding company of GUS plc and related subsidiaries and shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock Exchange on 6 October 2006.
Trading of shares in Experian Group Limited on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 11 October 2006.
The demerger transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Accordingly, following the guidance regarding the selection of an appropriate accounting policy provided by IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, the transaction has been accounted for in these financial statements using the principles of merger accounting set out in FRS 6 Acquisitions and Mergers and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
This policy, which does not conflict with IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
The distribution to GUS plc shareholders of shares in Home Retail Group plc has been accounted for as a dividend in specie in these financial statements.
In accordance with the requirements of merger accounting, the comparative information in these Group financial statements has been extracted from the GUS Groups statutory financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Those financial statements incorporated the results of GUS plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year then ended with the exception of Homebase where the GUS Group included its results for the financial year to the end of February.
This was done to facilitate comparability to avoid distortions related to the timing of Easter.
The statutory financial statements of GUS plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 were reported in Pounds Sterling but, to provide comparability with the presentation currency of the Group, they are now represented in US Dollars.
In addition this information has been further represented as follows: a the results of Home Retail Group have been reclassified as a discontinued operation in the Group income statement and the Group cash flow statement as required by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations: b there has been a reallocation of costs between cost of sales and operating expenses in the Group income statement to reflect the policies adopted in the preparation of the historical financial information for the Experian prospectus which provides a more appropriate classification of such items.
The effect of this is to increase cost of sales and reduce operating expenses for the year ended 31 March 2006 by US$112m, with no effect on reported profit for the financial year: and c there has been a reclassification of derivatives in the Group cash flow statement in order to more fairly state operating cash flows and to reflect the approach adopted in the preparation of the historical financial information for the Experian prospectus.
The effect of this has been to increase net cash inflow from operating activities by US$70m, to reduce net cash flow generated from financing activities by US$50m and to separately report an outflow for exchange and other movements of US$20m.
The reduction in net cash flow generated from financing activities comprises a reduction of US$63m in the cash inflow from new borrowings and a US$13m reclassification to separately identify net receipts from derivatives held to manage the Groups currency profile.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Under the requirements of IFRS 3 all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 31 March 2007.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note O to the parent company financial statements.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition after tax profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the Groups equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts, including the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the Ncontract period.
Foreign currency translation Presentation currency The Groups financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to net financing costs in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial instruments are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss in equity.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US Dollars are translated into US Dollars as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date: Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 65 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments, primarily foreign exchange contracts, designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies to equity instruments, such as share options granted since 7 November 2002.
The Group elected to adopt full retrospective application of the standard on all share options and awards granted to employees before 7 November 2002 but not vested at the date of transition to IFRS 1 April 2004.
The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans.
These include awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited made at or after demerger together with awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited at demerger.
The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arising from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Databases and computer software Databases Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases.
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Acquisition intangibles Trade marks and licences Trade marks and licences are carried at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of 20 years.
Trade names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Customer relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on managements estimates of the average lives of customer relationships.
Completed technology The fair value of completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Completed technology is held at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on the expected life of the asset.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life and period of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: Leasehold premises with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: and Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over two to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Contingent consideration Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of the acquisition initially recorded includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable in the future.
The proceeds are adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to debtors, and profit and loss on disposal, until the ultimate outcome is known.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and carried at the lower of fair value original invoice amount and recoverable amount.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables is recognised in the Group income statement immediately.
Available for sale assets Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in any of the other financial asset categories.
Available for sale assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale assets are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of the assets, the gains and losses in equity are recycled through the income statement.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale assets are impaired.
In the case of equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any such evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Initial differences between the proceeds of fixed rate borrowings and the redemption values are recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings that are subject to a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost adjusted for the change in fair value attributable to hedged risks.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Incremental borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 67 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and social security obligations in respect of share-based payments.
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Derivatives are recognised at cost, being the fair value at the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to net financing costs over the period of the contract.
The interest differential reflected in forward foreign exchange contracts is taken to net financing costs.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: Fair value hedges hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment: or Cash flow hedges hedges of highly probable forecast transactions: or Net investment hedges hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Fair value hedges ecorded in the Group income Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are r statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately within cost of sales or operating expenses, as appropriate, in the Group income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item will affect the income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with National Insurance liabilities on employee share incentive schemes are charged as an employment cost: other changes are charged within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Group income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price and for financial assets the current bid price.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of short-term trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce the Groups exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks.
It also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity, whilst maximising returns.
It does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
It operates policies and procedures which are periodically reviewed and approved by the directors and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit reviews.
Up to and including the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group transacted primarily in Pounds Sterling.
The hedging and risk management strategies pursued for the years then ended reflected this.
Policies adopted since demerger reflect the significance of its US Dollar operations.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk, primarily with respect to Pounds Sterling and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Group has investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies and the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net debt at rates that are fixed for more than one year.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
It also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
Credit risk In the case of deposits and derivative financial instruments, the Group is exposed to a credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contract party.
This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers, internationally dispersed, with no concentration on particular industries or markets.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk of financial assets is represented by the carrying value of the asset net of any applicable provision for impairment.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed facilities that are managed to ensure it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expansions.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows CGUs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 69 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and The amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligation may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits Defined benefit pension arrangements The pension liability recognised in the Group balance sheet, in respect of such arrangements, is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions paid by the Group to these funds over the year.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Other post-employment obligations Post-retirement healthcare costs The Group operates schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependent relatives.
The principal scheme relates to former employees in the UK and, under this scheme, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare insurance for all eligible former employees and their dependants who retired prior to 1 April 1994.
The expected cost of these benefits is calculated using an actuarial methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
The obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group has determined the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group has considered the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is disclosed in note 24.
Fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the businesses in which the segment operates.
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations for all CGUs are: Budgeted gross margin: Weighted average real growth rate of 2.25% used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period: and Pre-tax discount rate of 11.4% applied to the pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used reflect the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 71 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled share-based payment arrangements in existence.
The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgements in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
Critical judgements Management has made certain judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies set out above that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
These include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
These accounting policy descriptions indicate where judgement needs exercising.
The most significant of these judgements is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made certain judgements and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on uncertain judgements about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between 3 and 7 years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and 2 and 10 years for acquisition intangibles.
Recent accounting developments The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC are effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and amendments to IAS 1Presentation of Financial Statements - Capital Disclosures: IFRS 8 Operating segments : IAS 23 Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives: IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment : IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions : IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
These standards are still subject to adoption by the EU.
These changes are not expected to have a material effect on the results and net assets of Experian.
A number of the developments will lead to additional disclosures.
Use of non-GAAP measures The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group: Benchmark Profit before Tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demergerrelated equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements and taxation.
It includes the Groups share of associates pre-tax profit.
Earnings before Interest and Tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, net financing costs and taxation.
Benchmark Earnings per Share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark PBT less attributable taxation and minority interests divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses or closure costs of material business units.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents.
Total debt includes loans and borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Interest payable on borrowings is excluded from net debt.
Segmental information A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash, investments and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings which are included within Central activities.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude items such as tax, borrowings and related hedging derivatives which are included within Central activities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
The primary and secondary segmental reporting formats for Experian are outlined below.
In addition the segmental information includes discontinued operations.
These comprise the businesses of Home Retail Group, Burberry and Lewis which were all individual segments for GUS plc but were either demerged from or sold by GUS plc prior to the flotation of Experian.
Additional information in respect of discontinued operations is shown in note 10.
Primary reporting format for Experian geographical segments At 31 March 2007, Experian is organised on a worldwide basis into three core geographies: Americas North America and South America : UK & Ireland: and Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA Asia Pacific.
In addition unallocated corporate head office costs, which include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions, are reported as Central activities.
Secondary reporting format for Experian business segments Experian operates across four key business segments: Credit Services: Decision Analytics: Marketing Solutions: and Interactive.
Credit Services acquires, processes and manages large and complex databases containing the credit histories of consumers and businesses and also operates business processing outsourcing services, mainly in France, helping banks and other clients with back office functions.
Decision Analytics builds on the Credit Services database information and helps clients by applying analytical tools and software to convert data held internally and other data into usable business information.
Marketing Solutions helps clients to acquire new customers and to manage their relationships with existing customers.
By appending hundreds of characteristics to the credit and marketing data held in databases, Marketing Solutions provides clients with information designed to assist them in matching the right offer or product to the relevant customer using the most appropriate communication channels.
Interactive helps customers to understand and manage their own financial information and assets as well as to make more informed purchase decisions in areas such as financial services, shopping and education and to connect them with companies over the Internet.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 73 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 3.
Segmental information continued Geographical segments a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2007 Continuing operations Americas UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total 3 Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue Total revenue 1,994 907 591 3,492 5,468 8,960 2 Inter-segment revenue 11 11 11 Revenue from external customers 1,994 896 591 3,481 5,468 8,949 Profit Operating profit loss 432 176 68 203 473 212 685 Net financing income costs 146 146 16 130 Share of post-tax profits of associates 67 67 67 Profit loss before tax 499 176 68 349 394 228 622 Group tax expense 68 91 159 Profit for the financial year 326 137 463 Reconciliation from EBIT to Profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 562 236 74 47 825 Net interest 111 111 Benchmark PBT 562 236 74 158 714 Exceptional items note 7 15 26 151 162 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 45 27 4 76 Goodwill adjustment 14 14 Charges in respect of the demergerrelated equity incentive plans 10 7 2 5 24 Financing fair value remeasurements 35 35 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 9 9 Profit loss before tax 499 176 68 349 394 1.
Revenue from continuing operations arose principally from the provision of services.
Revenue from discontinued operations arose principally from the sale of goods.
Revenue within the UK & Ireland geographical segment includes US$11m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
Inter-segment revenue represents the provision of services between Experian and discontinued operations.
Additional information on discontinued operations, which comprise Home Retail Group, together with a tax charge in respect of disposals, is shown in note 10.
The results of discontinued operations are in respect of businesses operating within the UK & Ireland geographical segment.
Segmental information continued b Balance sheet at 31 March 2007 Continuing operations Americas UK & EMEA Central Total Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total segment assets 2,776 1,092 614 364 4,846 Less: segment liabilities 535 318 195 169 1,217 Segment net assets 2,241 774 419 195 3,629 Net debt 1,408 Tax 114 Group net assets 2,107 Segment net assets for Central activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and derivative assets and liabilities.
c Other Continuing operations Americas UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 15 36 29 12 2 79 134 213 Amortisation of intangible assets note 14 147 59 20 226 11 237 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profit of associates 61 61 61 Segment net assets includes: Goodwill 1,376 524 319 2,219 2,219 Investment in associates 277 9 286 286 Capital expenditure 168 67 40 275 173 448 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 75 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 3.
Segmental information continued Geographical segments a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2006 Continuing operations Americas UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total 3 Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue Total revenue 1,804 758 522 3,084 11,086 14,170 2 Inter-segment revenue 20 20 20 Revenue from external customers 1,804 738 522 3,064 11,086 14,150 Profit Operating profit loss 365 197 62 38 586 835 1,421 Net financing income costs 102 102 33 69 Share of post-tax profits of associates 66 66 66 Profit loss before tax 431 197 62 140 550 868 1,418 Group tax expense 92 262 354 Profit for the financial year 458 606 1,064 Reconciliation from EBIT to Profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 479 215 64 31 727 Net interest 100 100 Benchmark PBT 479 215 64 131 627 Exceptional items note 7 7 7 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 46 18 2 66 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 2 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 2 2 Profit loss before tax 431 197 62 140 550 1.
Revenue within the UK & Ireland geographical segment includes US$20m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations comprise the businesses Home Retail Group, Burberry and Lewis.
The most significant of these segments, Home Retail Group, principally operated in the UK & Ireland geographical segment.
Discontinued operations include the results of Homebase for the year ended 28 February 2006.
Additional information on discontinued operations is shown in note 10.
Segmental information continued b Balance sheet at 31 March 2006 Continuing operations Americas UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total segment assets 2,727 906 501 408 4,542 7,196 11,738 Less: segment liabilities 503 251 162 119 1,035 1,735 2,770 Segment net assets 2,224 655 339 289 3,507 5,461 8,968 Net debt 3,437 Tax 77 Group net assets 5,454 Segment net assets for Central activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and derivative assets and liabilities.
c Other Continuing operations Americas UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 15 36 20 11 3 70 243 313 Amortisation of intangible assets note 14 143 41 16 200 32 232 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profit of associates 68 68 68 Segment net assets includes: Goodwill 1,356 441 273 2,070 3,272 5,342 Investment in associates 225 225 225 Capital expenditure 129 43 32 8 212 494 706 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 77 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 3.
Segmental information continued Business segments a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2007 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Central Total Discontinued Total 3 Services Analytics Solutions Interactive activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue Total revenue 1,584 392 728 788 3,492 5,468 8,960 2 Inter-segment revenue 11 11 11 Revenue from external customers 1,573 392 728 788 3,481 5,468 8,949 Profit Operating profit loss 402 130 28 135 222 473 212 685 Net financing income costs 146 146 16 130 Share of post-tax profits of associates 67 67 67 Profit loss before tax 469 130 28 135 368 394 228 622 Group tax expense 68 91 159 Profit for the financial year 326 137 463 Reconciliation from EBIT to Profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 505 136 64 167 47 825 Net interest 111 111 Benchmark PBT 505 136 64 167 158 714 Exceptional items note 7 11 151 162 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 16 1 27 32 76 Goodwill adjustment 5 9 14 Charges in respect of the demerger- 4 related equity incentive plans 24 24 Financing fair value remeasurements 35 35 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 9 9 Profit loss before tax 469 130 28 135 368 394 1.
Revenue from Credit Services included US$11m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations comprise Home Retail Group.
Additional information on discontinued operations is given in note 10.
No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is maintained only to provide an allocation by geographical segment.
Segmental information continued Year ended 31 March 2006 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Central Total Discontinued Total 3 Services Analytics Solutions Interactive activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue Total revenue 1,504 325 627 628 3,084 11,086 14,170 2 Inter-segment revenue 20 20 20 Revenue from external customers 1,484 325 627 628 3,064 11,086 14,150 Profit Operating profit loss 395 102 41 86 38 586 835 1,421 Net financing income costs 102 102 33 69 Share of post-tax profits of associates 66 66 66 Profit loss before tax 461 102 41 86 140 550 868 1,418 Group tax expense 92 262 354 Profit for the financial year 458 606 1,064 Reconciliation from EBIT to Profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 477 102 57 122 31 727 Net interest 100 100 Benchmark PBT 477 102 57 122 131 627 Exceptional items note 7 7 7 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 14 16 36 66 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 2 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 2 2 Profit loss before tax 461 102 41 86 140 550 1.
Revenue from Credit Services includes US$20m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations comprise the businesses Home Retail Group, Burberry and Lewis which were all individual segments.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 79 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 3.
Segmental information continued 2007 2006 b Total segment assets US$m US$m Continuing operations Credit Services 1,871 1,652 Decision Analytics 293 242 Marketing Solutions 993 893 Interactive 1,131 1,174 Central activities 558 581 Total continuing operations 4,846 4,542 Discontinued operations 7,196 Total 4,846 11,738 Total segment assets for Central activities at 31 March 2007 represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit and derivative assets.
In addition to those assets reflected in the geographical analysis, all Group properties are included within Central activities as they are not allocated by business segment.
2007 2006 c Capital expenditure US$m US$m Continuing operations Credit Services 182 132 Decision Analytics 9 11 Marketing Solutions 64 48 Interactive 20 13 Central activities 8 Total continuing operations 275 212 Discontinued operations 173 494 Total 448 706 4.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Sterling to US Dollar 1.89 1.79 1.96 1.74 1.88 Euro to US Dollar 1.29 1.22 1.33 1.22 1.30 Assets and liabilities of undertakings whose functional currency is not the US Dollar are translated into US Dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated into US Dollars at average rates of exchange unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Expenses 2007 2006 US$m US$m a Expenses by nature Profit before tax is stated after charging: Net operating lease rental expense 102 91 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 79 70 Amortisation of intangible assets 226 200 Write down on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 10 Employee benefit costs note 6 1,327 1,128 Research expenditure 5 5 Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administration expenses, except for the amortisation of databases which is charged to cost of sales.
b Fees payable to the Companys auditor Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 1 1 Audit of the financial statements of the Groups UK and overseas subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2 1 Other assurance services, pursuant to legislation, including fees for the review of the Groups interim statement 2 3 Taxation services 4 5 Services in respect of the demerger 19 All other services, including regulatory, compliance and treasury related services 2 2 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 29 11 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement on page 45.
Employee benefit costs and employee numbers a The aggregate employee costs for the continuing operations of the Group comprise: 2007 2006 Notes US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,025 891 Social security costs 161 148 Share-based payments 31 91 36 Pension costs defined benefit plans 24 17 26 Pension costs defined contribution plans 24 33 27 Total continuing operations 1,327 1,128 b The average number of employees including executive directors in the continuing operations of the Group comprise: 2007 2006 Full time Full time Full time Part time equivalent Full time Part time equivalent Americas 5,230 201 5,330 4,796 167 4,879 UK & Ireland 3,745 189 3,840 3,452 201 3,553 EMEA Asia Pacific 3,248 226 3,361 3,253 229 3,367 Central activities 95 4 97 74 74 Total continuing operations 12,318 620 12,628 11,575 597 11,873 Included in the Central activities headcount in 2007 are 25 full time employees, performing group finance and administration tasks, who had previously been reported within the UK & Ireland segment.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 81 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 6.
Employee benefit costs and employee numbers continued c Remuneration of key management personnel: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 16 13 Retirement benefits 4 2 Other long-term benefits 2 Share-based payments 28 11 Total continuing operations 48 28 Key management personnel comprises the board of directors, shown on pages 38 and 39, and certain senior management.
The amount included in respect of share-based payments includes operating and exceptional costs for previous GUS awards and the oneoff demerger awards.
Further details of the remuneration of directors are given in the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration on pages 52 to 57.
Information on transactions with related parties is set out in note 35.
Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures 2007 2006 US$m US$m Exceptional items Continuing operations: Charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 23 Other costs incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 126 7 Costs incurred in the closure of UK Account Processing 26 Loss on disposal of businesses 2 Gain arising in associate on the partial disposal of its subsidiary 15 Total exceptional items 162 7 Other non-GAAP measures Continuing operations: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 76 66 Goodwill adjustment 14 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 24 Financing fair value remeasurements note 8 35 2 Total other non-GAAP measures 149 68 Exceptional items Other costs of US$126m 2006: US$7m incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group comprise legal and professional fees in respect of the transaction, together with costs in connection with the cessation of the corporate functions of GUS plc in 2007.
In April 2006, Experian announced the phased withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK.
The full cost of withdrawal of US$26m has been charged in the year, and is made up of a cost in cash of US$28m less the benefit of a US$2m pension curtailment credit.
The loss on the disposal of businesses primarily related to the sale of a minority stake in Experians South African business.
First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES recognised a gain of US$77m on the partial disposal of its Real Estate Solutions division as part of the consideration for the acquisition of 82% of CoreLogic Solutions, Inc. Experian recognised US$15m, its 20% share of the gain.
A deferred tax charge of US$6m has been included in the FARES result in respect of this gain.
Other non-GAAP measures IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on uncertain judgements about their value and economic life.
A goodwill adjustment of US$14m arose under IFRS3 Business combinations on the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses on prior years acquisitions.
The corresponding tax benefit reduces the tax charge in the year by US$14m.
Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans.
The cost of these one-off grants will be charged to the Group income statement over the five years following flotation but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
The cost of all other grants will be charged to the Group income statement and will be included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within Finance income and Finance expense in the Group income statement.
Net financing costs 2007 2006 US$m US$m a Net financing costs comprise: Interest income: Bank deposits 10 5 Loan notes note 18 1 14 Interest differentials on derivatives 17 45 Expected return on pension scheme assets 68 54 Interest income 96 118 Financing fair value gains: Fair value gains on non-hedging derivatives 7 23 Ineffective portion of net investment hedges 5 Financing fair value gains 7 28 Finance income 103 146 Interest expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 41 64 Eurobonds and notes 112 107 Commitment and facility utilisation fees 2 2 Interest expense on pension scheme liabilities 52 45 Interest expense 207 218 Financing fair value losses: Ineffective portion of fair value hedges of borrowings 5 5 Fair value losses on non-hedging derivatives 26 Foreign exchange transaction losses 11 25 Financing fair value losses 42 30 Finance expense 249 248 Net financing costs 146 102 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT comprises: Net financing costs 146 102 Less: financing fair value remeasurements 35 2 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 111 100 c Financing fair value remeasurements included in net financing costs comprise: Financing fair value gains 7 28 Financing fair value losses 42 30 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 35 2 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 83 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 9.
Tax expense 2007 2006 US$m US$m a Analysis of expense recognised in the Group Income statement Current taxation: UK Corporation tax on income for the year 13 45 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 4 14 41 Non-UK taxation: Overseas tax on income for the year 39 17 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 7 Total current tax charge for the year 19 51 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53 54 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 13 Total deferred tax charge for the year 49 41 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 68 92 The tax expense comprises: UK taxation 45 36 Overseas taxation 113 56 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 68 92 b Tax reconciliation Profit before tax 394 550 Plus: tax on share of profits of associates 9 2 Adjusted profit before tax 403 552 Adjusted profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of Corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2006: 30% 121 166 Effects of: Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 11 24 Income not taxable 10 11 Expenses not deductible 39 45 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 16 2 Tax on share of profits of associates 9 2 Differences in tax rates 34 54 Other adjustments 9 28 Disposal of businesses 3 2 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 68 92 The effective tax rate for the year of 17.3% 2006:16.7%, after adjusting for the net income from associates, is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom 30%.
The differences are explained above.
c The effective rate of tax on Benchmark PBT The effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT of US$714m 2006: US$627m is 22.4% 2006: 17.5%.
d Tax on items charged to equity In addition to the amount charged to the Group income statement tax amounting to US$7m 2006:US$9m credit has been charged directly to equity, relating mainly to share schemes, actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations and foreign exchange.
This includes a credit of US$11m 2006: US$nil in respect of current taxation and a charge of US$18m 2006: credit of US$9m in respect of deferred taxation.
e Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
Discontinued operations The results for discontinued operations were as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Revenue: Home Retail Group including Wehkamp 5,468 10,206 Burberry 844 Lewis Group 36 Total revenue 5,468 11,086 Operating profit: Home Retail Group including Wehkamp 212 619 Burberry 168 Lewis Group 9 Total operating profit 212 796 Net financing income 16 33 Profit before tax of discontinued operations 228 829 Tax charge 74 262 Profit after tax of discontinued operations 154 567 Gains losses on disposal of discontinued operations: Profit on disposal of Lewis Group 64 Loss on disposal of Wehkamp 34 Profit on disposal of shares in Burberry 18 Costs incurred relating to the demerger of Burberry 9 Gains on disposals 39 Tax charge in respect of disposals 17 Loss profit after tax on disposals 17 39 Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 137 606 In May 2005, the Group announced the sale of its remaining 50% interest in Lewis Group Limited and in December 2005 divested its remaining 65% interest in Burberry Group plc.
In January 2006, the Group sold Wehkamp, the leading home shopping brand in the Netherlands.
These operations were classified as discontinued in the financial statements of GUS plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
In October 2006, the net assets of Home Retail Group were distributed by way of a dividend in specie.
As a result, these operations have been reclassified as discontinued.
The tax charge in respect of disposals related to taxation assets no longer recoverable following earlier disposals.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 85 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 10.
Discontinued operations continued Earnings before interest and taxation of discontinued businesses are stated after charging: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cost of sales 3,589 7,034 Operating expenses: Distribution costs 1,361 2,335 Administrative expenses 306 921 Operating expenses 1,667 3,256 The cash flows attributable to discontinued operations comprise: From operating activities 705 539 From investing activities 168 711 From financing activities 3 7 Exchange and other movements 16 9 Less: cash held by Home Retail Group at demerger note 30 b 518 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations 32 188 11. Dividend 2007 2007 2006 2006 cents cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to equity holders during the year: Interim 5.5 55 17.2 147 Final 40.3 346 36.6 361 Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 45.8 401 53.8 508 Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 5,627 Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Burberry Group plc 513 Full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 17.0 A dividend of 11.5 cents per Ordinary share will be paid on 27 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2007 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
Unless shareholders elect by 29 June 2007 to receive US Dollars, their dividends will be paid in Sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US Dollars to Sterling on 6 July 2007.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place as part of the demerger, shareholders in Experian Group Limited are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they became shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
The Experian Group Limited Exployee Share Trust and the GUS ESOP Trust have waived their entitlement to dividends in the amount of US$4m 2006: US$7m.
The GUS ESOP Trust did not waive its entitlement to the dividend in specie.
The dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006 were received by shareholders of GUS plc.
The final dividend paid in August 2006 and the dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group were received by shareholders of GUS plc.
Basic and diluted earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in Treasury in the period prior to the demerger and own shares held in ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilutive effect of employee share incentive schemes.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
The weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2007 includes Ordinary shares of GUS plc in issue to the date of the demerger and the Ordinary shares of the Company in issue thereafter.
The weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2006 comprises Ordinary shares of GUS plc in issue and reflects the effect of the share consolidation that took place at the date of the Burberry demerger in December 2005.
2007 2006 Basic earnings per share: cents cents Continuing and discontinued operations 49.9 107.5 Exclude: discontinued operations 14.8 59.1 Continuing operations 35.1 48.4 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 24.6 6.1 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 59.7 54.5 Diluted earnings per share: Continuing and discontinued operations 49.3 105.8 Exclude: discontinued operations 14.6 58.2 Continuing operations 34.7 47.6 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 24.4 6.0 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 59.1 53.6 2007 2006 Earnings: US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 462 1,018 Exclude: discontinued operations 137 560 Continuing operations 325 458 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 229 58 Benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 554 516 2007 2006 m m Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year 927.3 946.7 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 9.9 15.0 Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year 937.2 961.7 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 87 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 13.
Goodwill Home Retail Experian Group Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 2,070 3,272 5,342 Differences on exchange 93 286 379 Additions through business combinations note 30 a 71 71 Reduction in goodwill relating to tax losses 14 14 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 3,558 3,558 Disposals 1 1 At 31 March 2007 2,219 2,219 In accordance with IFRS 3, the goodwill balance has been reduced by US$14m on the recognition of tax losses on prior year acquisitions.
A goodwill adjustment of US$14m has been charged to offset the recognition of a credit in the tax charge for the year.
The goodwill adjustment has been excluded from Benchmark PBT.
Home Retail Experian Group Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2005 1,012 3,455 215 4,682 Differences on exchange 48 183 11 242 Additions through business combinations 1,124 9 1,133 Disposals 213 213 Transfer to acquisition intangibles 18 18 At 31 March 2006 2,070 3,272 5,342 Experian goodwill at the balance sheet date has been allocated to CGUs as follows: Americas US$1,376m 2006: US$1,356m, UK and Ireland US$524m 2006: US$441m and EMEA Asia Pacific US$319m 2006: US$273m.
Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation and annual impairment testing are given in note 2.
Other intangible assets Internally Internal use generated Acquisition Databases software software intangibles Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2006 585 355 165 529 1,634 Differences on exchange 24 26 16 24 90 Additions through business combinations note 30 a 2 18 20 Other additions 102 75 42 219 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 308 308 Disposals 47 11 5 63 At 31 March 2007 666 137 218 571 1,592 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2006 353 180 90 85 708 Differences on exchange 20 16 9 5 50 Charge for the year 92 45 24 76 237 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 150 150 Disposals 47 9 1 57 At 31 March 2007 418 82 122 166 788 Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 232 175 75 444 926 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 248 55 96 405 804 Acquisition intangibles represents trade marks and licences, trade names, customer relationships and completed technology.
Other intangible assets continued Internally Internal use generated Acquisition Databases software software intangibles Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2005 516 370 145 130 1,161 Differences on exchange 14 20 9 13 56 Additions through business combinations 2 392 394 Other additions 95 70 34 2 201 Transfer between assets 18 18 Disposal of subsidiaries 27 27 Disposals 14 38 5 57 At 31 March 2006 585 355 165 529 1,634 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2005 290 184 76 20 570 Differences on exchange 12 10 5 1 28 Charge for the year 88 57 21 66 232 Disposal of subsidiaries 13 13 Disposals 13 38 2 53 At 31 March 2006 353 180 90 85 708 Net Book Value at 31 March 2005 226 186 69 110 591 Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 232 175 75 444 926 Acquisition intangibles represents trade marks and licences, trade names, customer relationships and completed technology.
Property, plant and equipment Leasehold properties Assets Freehold Long Short Plant & in course of properties leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2006 397 13 684 2,159 54 3,307 Differences on exchange 34 1 51 175 4 265 Additions through business combinations note 30 a 3 1 4 Additions 13 3 32 181 229 Transfers between assets 22 22 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 160 17 666 1,907 36 2,786 Disposals 8 46 54 At 31 March 2007 287 115 563 965 Depreciation At 1 April 2006 60 4 318 1,255 1,637 Differences on exchange 3 29 100 132 Charge for year 8 1 26 178 213 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 16 5 347 1,119 1,487 Disposals 7 42 49 At 31 March 2007 55 19 372 446 Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 337 9 366 904 54 1,670 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 232 96 191 519 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 89 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leasehold properties Assets Freehold Long Short Plant & in course of properties leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2005 564 3 778 2,467 62 3,874 Differences on exchange 25 44 160 5 234 Additions through business combinations 14 14 Additions 55 5 91 331 23 505 Transfers between assets 5 16 11 21 21 Disposal of subsidiaries 193 118 295 5 611 Disposals 4 7 209 220 At 31 March 2006 397 13 684 2,159 54 3,307 Depreciation At 1 April 2005 109 347 1,458 1,914 Differences on exchange 5 25 95 125 Transfers between assets 4 7 3 Charge for the year 13 34 266 313 Impairments 2 21 23 Disposal of subsidiaries 55 29 193 277 Disposals 2 4 202 208 At 31 March 2006 60 4 318 1,255 1,637 Net Book Value at 31 March 2005 455 3 431 1,009 62 1,960 Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 337 9 366 904 54 1,670 The Group leases plant and equipment under a number of finance lease agreements.
At the end of each of the leases the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$nil 2006: US$7m.
Investments in associates 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 225 208 Additions 33 12 Impairment of trade or other receivables 7 Share of profit after tax including a pre-tax exceptional gain of US$15m note 7 67 66 Dividends received 39 50 Disposals 4 At 31 March 286 225 Investments in associates at 31 March 2007 include goodwill of US$219m 2006: US$186m.
The Groups share of cumulative retained profits of associated undertakings at 31 March 2007 is US$127m 2006: US$99m.
The Groups principal interest in associated undertakings is a 20% holding of First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES, a US partnership.
There are no other material interests in associated undertakings.
At 31 March 2007, the Groups share of the assets of FARES amounted to US$477m 2006: US$374m, and its share of liabilities is US$200m 2006: US$155m.
The Groups share of revenue for the year ended 31 March 2007 is US$249m 2006: US$254m, and its share of profit after tax US$67m 2006: US$66m.
First American Corporation, which holds the balance of the capital of FARES, has the right to acquire from Experian its interest in FARES, at a purchase price pursuant to a specified formula based on the after tax earnings of FARES.
First American may only exercise this right after November 2008.
Experian can elect to delay completion of the transaction for a maximum period of 24 months following First American Corporation giving notice.
The impairment of trade or other receivables of US$7m in the year ended 31 March 2006 related to AA GUS Financial Services NV, an associated undertaking of Home Retail Group.
Inventories 2007 2006 US$m US$m Work in progress 2 2 Finished goods 2 1,536 4 1,538 Inventories at 31 March 2007 are stated net of impairment provisions of US$nil 2006: US$197m.
The impairment provision at 31 March 2006 related to inventories held by Home Retail Group.
Trade and other receivables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables: Instalment receivables 618 58 Other trade receivables 574 641 7 Total trade receivables 574 1,259 65 Amounts owed by associates 3 2 VAT recoverable 1 17 Deferred consideration receivable 244 Other prepayments and accrued income 216 11 308 24 794 11 1,830 89 Current trade receivables are stated net of provisions of US$30m 2006: US$187m, of which US$162m related to Home Retail Group.
Non-current trade receivables are stated net of provisions of US$nil 2006: US$9m, which wholly related to Home Retail Group.
Instalment receivables at 31 March 2006 were in respect of Home Retail Group and the effective interest rate thereon for that year was 7.7%.
The deferred consideration in respect of the disposal of the home shopping and Reality businesses was received in full in April 2006 from March UK Limited.
Interest income of US$1m 2006: US$14m arose in the year in respect of this consideration.
The analysis of the maturity profile for financial assets included within non-current items is given in note 26.
Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 364 233 Short-term Investments 543 152 907 385 The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2007 is 4.4% 2006: 2.7%.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 193 809 VAT and other taxes payable 42 125 Social security costs 75 75 Accruals 653 17 1,156 64 Other creditors 68 35 256 80 1,031 52 2,421 144 The analysis of the maturity profile for financial liabilities included within non-current items is given in note 26.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 91 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 21.
Loans and borrowings Current Non-current Current Non-current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 688 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 620 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 595 Perpetual Securities issued by Home Retail Group 386 Bank loans 50 1,308 Overdrafts 273 245 1,024 1,348 295 3,597 Present value of obligations under finance leases 1 82 1,025 1,348 303 3,599 During the year ended 31 March 2007, 4.125% Euronotes 2007 with a notional value of e20m and 5.625% Euronotes 2013 with a notional value of 16m were redeemed.
The effective interest rate of Euronotes and Eurobonds approximates to the nominal rate indicated above.
The effective interest rate of the Perpetual Securities is 4.6% 2006: 4.6%.
The effective interest rate for overdrafts at 31 March 2007 is 4.3% 2006: 4.9% and for bank loans at 31 March 2006 was 3.9%.
All the borrowings of the Group shown above are unsecured.
Finance lease obligations are effectively secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessor in the event of default.
The analysis of the maturity profile for non-current items is given in note 26.
2007 2006 The minimum lease payments payable under finance leases comprise: US$m US$m Not later than one year 1 8 Later than one year and not later than five years 2 Total minimum lease payments 1 10 Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance leases as shown above 1 10 The present value of finance leases consists of: Not later than one year 1 8 Later than one year and not later than five years 2 Total present value 1 10 On 12 July 2006, GUS plc entered into a 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of US$2,450m.
On 17 November 2006, Experian Group Limited acceded to this facility as a borrower and a guarantor.
At the balance sheet date there were no drawings made under this facility.
At 31 March 2007, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$2,450m 2006: US$923m of which US$nil 2006: US$174m expires within one year of the balance sheet date and US$2,450m 2006: US$749m expires more than two years after the balance sheet date.
These facilities are in place for general corporate purposes including the financing of acquisitions.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 634 139 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 6 81 Debt due within one year 729 49 Finance leases 1 10 Debt due after more than one year 1,306 3,598 Net debt at the end of the financial year 1,408 3,437 Continuing operations 1,408 3,277 Discontinued operations 160 Net debt at the end of the financial year 1,408 3,437 92 | Experian Annual Report 2007 23.
Provisions Home Retail Restructuring Group provision provisions Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 155 155 Differences on exchange 212 14 Amount charged in the year 37 12 49 Utilised 7 7 Impact of discount rate movement 2 2 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 174 174 At 31 March 2007 39 39 Disclosed within Non-current liabilities 30 30 Disclosed within Current liabilities 9 9 At 31 March 2007 39 39 Home Retail Group provisions Total US$m US$m At 1 April 2005 167 167 Differences on exchange 14 14 Amount charged in the year 24 24 Utilised 24 24 Impact of discount rate movement 2 2 At 31 March 2006 155 155 Disclosed within Non-current liabilities Disclosed within Current liabilities 155 155 At 31 March 2006 155 155 The restructuring provision at 31 March 2007, disclosed within current liabilities, included the full cost of the restructuring cost of UK Marketing Solutions, which is expected to be utilised in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The restructuring provision at 31 March 2007 of US$30m disclosed within non-current liabilities comprised the anticipated future costs of the withdrawal by Experian from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK, in respect of which there was a charge of US$28m in the year.
This provision comprises the estimated costs of redundancy and certain contractual obligations in respect of this business and has been determined by reference to projections of the timing of withdrawal.
It is anticipated that this portion of the provision will be utilised in the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2010.
There was no restructuring provision at 31 March 2006 and no movements thereon in the year then ended.
Fair values of provisions do not materially differ from the recognised book values.
Retirement benefit assets obligations a Defined Benefit Schemes The Group operates pension plans in a number of countries around the world and provides post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits to certain former employees.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
Pension arrangements for the Groups UK employees are operated principally through the Experian Pension Scheme formerly the GUS Pension Scheme which is a defined benefit scheme and the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan formerly the GUS Money Purchase Pension Plan which is a defined contribution scheme.
In North America, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
There are no other material pension arrangements.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 93 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 24.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued a Defined Benefit Schemes continued The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial funding valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2004 by independent, qualified actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the scheme.
Following the demerger of Home Retail Group, the Argos Pension Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme for Home Retail Group employees, continued to be operated by that business.
On demerger the pension rights of certain Home Retail Group employees who had been members of the then GUS Pension Scheme were transferred to the Argos Pension Scheme.
Certain Home Retail Group employees who had been members of the then GUS Money Purchase Plan will be transferred to the Home Retail Group Stakeholder Pension Plan in due course.
Following changes introduced by the Finance Act 2004 which took effect from 6 April 2006 A-Day, the Experian Pension Scheme, being the principal defined benefit pension scheme, implemented revised terms for members exchanging pension at retirement date for a tax-free lump sum.
The impact of the consequent update in assumptions reduced the charge to the Group income statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 by US$2m and increased the actual gain recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense by US$6m.
Assets and liabilities of overseas schemes have been transferred through the purchase of annuities for all liabilities of the plans.
i The amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet are determined as follows: UK Overseas Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Market value of schemes assets 1,069 1,952 68 1,069 2,020 Present value of funded schemes liabilities 928 1,852 68 928 1,920 Surplus in the funded schemes 141 100 141 100 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 37 42 6 37 48 Liability for post-retirement healthcare 19 19 2 19 21 Retirement benefit asset liability recognised in the Group balance sheet 85 39 8 85 31 During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group put in place arrangements to secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements already in place for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way will be adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Groups registered pension schemes.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 31 March 2007 was US$29m 2006: US$28m.
Further details of the unfunded pension arrangements for directors appear in the report on directors remuneration on page 57. ii The amounts recognised in the Group profit and loss account reserve were as follows: UK Overseas Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current service cost 53 65 5 53 70 Curtailment gain 6 6 Interest on schemes liabilities 78 88 3 78 91 Expected return on schemes assets 107 100 3 107 103 Total charge to Group income statement 18 53 5 18 58 Actuarial gain loss recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense 65 44 31 65 13 Other charge to profit and loss account reserve in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme 41 41 Total credit charge to Group profit and loss account reserve 6 9 36 6 45 The charge to Group income statement includes US$17m 2006: US$41m in respect of discontinued operations.
The charge to profit and loss account reserve in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme forms part of the dividend in specie on the demerger of Home Retail Group.
The curtailment gain arises from the restructuring of the UK Account Processing and the UK Marketing Solutions businesses, as well as the cessation of certain corporate functions in GUS plc.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued a Defined Benefit Schemes continued iii The movements during the year in the retirement benefit asset recognised in the Group balance sheet were as follows: UK Overseas Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 39 190 8 21 31 211 Reclassification of obligation 8 8 Other charge to profit and loss account reserve in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme 41 41 Liabilities disposed with the sale of overseas businesses 45 45 Differences on exchange 10 9 1 10 10 Total amounts recognised in the Group income statement as disclosed above 18 53 5 18 58 Actuarial gain loss recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense 65 44 31 65 13 Contributions paid by the Group 38 229 3 38 232 At 31 March 85 39 8 85 31 iv The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Group income statement: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Administrative costs after exceptional income of US$4m 2006: US$nil 17 26 Net financing income 16 9 Continuing operations 1 17 Discontinued operations 17 41 Total charge to Group income statement 18 58 v Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Gain loss on liabilities 75 80 Loss gain on assets 3 109 Continuing operations 72 29 Discontinued operations 7 16 Total gain included in Group statement of recognised income and expense in year 65 13 Cumulative actuarial gain loss included in Group statement of recognised income and expense comprises: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Continuing operations 127 55 Discontinued operations 81 74 Total cumulative actuarial gain loss included in Group statement of recognised income and expense 46 19 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 95 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 24.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued a Defined Benefit Schemes continued vi Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Opening defined benefit obligation 1,989 2,026 Demerger of Home Retail Group 1,100 Pension liability disposed with the sale of overseas businesses 240 Current service cost 53 70 Interest cost 78 91 Settlement or curtailment 9 4 Contributions paid by employees 14 16 Contributions paid from outside the Group 2 Actuarial gain loss on liabilities 118 228 Benefits paid 123 48 Exchange differences 198 150 Closing defined benefit obligation 984 1,989 The total defined benefit obligation of US$984m 2006: US$1,989m includes US$928m 2006: US$1,920m in respect of the Groups funded arrangements and US$56m 2006: US$69m in respect of the Groups unfunded arrangements.
vii Changes in the market value of the plan assets are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Opening market value of plan assets 2,020 1,814 Demerger of Home Retail Group 1,141 Pension assets disposed with the sale of overseas businesses 195 Expected return 107 105 Settlement or curtailment 3 4 Actuarial loss gain on assets 53 241 Contributions paid by the Group 38 232 Contributions paid by employees 14 16 Contributions paid from outside the Group 2 Benefits paid 123 48 Exchange differences 208 141 Closing market value of plan assets 1,069 2,020 The actual return on plan assets was US$54m 2006: US$346m.
Contributions in the year ended 31 March 2006 included a special contribution of US$179m paid into the Argos Pension Scheme in March 2006.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the Experian pension schemes during the next financial year is US$19m by the Group and US$7m by employees.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued a Defined Benefit Schemes continued viii The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Watson Wyatt Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 31 March 2007.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: UK schemes 2007 2006 % % Rate of inflation 3.1 2.9 Rate of increase for salaries 4.9 4.7 Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.1 2.9 Rate of increase for medical costs 6.5 6.5 Discount rate 5.4 4.9 Overseas schemes 2006 % Rate of inflation 2.7 Rate of increase for salaries n a Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions Rate of increase for medical costs 11.5 Discount rate 5.1 The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, i. e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this assumption increased decreased by 0.1%, the UK defined benefit obligation would decrease increase by approximately US$17m and the annual UK current service cost would decrease increase by approximately US$1m.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with current standard tables for males and females as used at the last actuarial valuation.
An allowance is also made for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy, by assuming that the probability of death occurring at each age will decrease by 0.25% each year.
If this assumption decreased by a further 0.25% per annum then the defined benefit obligation would increase by US$40m and the annual UK current service cost would increase by approximately US$3m.
Overall, the average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be: 19.1 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 22.2 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 19.8 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 23.1 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 The assumptions in respect of discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
The IAS 19 valuation, in respect of post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits provided to certain former Group employees, additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this assumption increased decreased by 1.0% per annum then the obligation would increase decrease by US$2m and the annual UK current service cost would remain unchanged.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 97 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 24.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued a Defined Benefit Schemes continued ix The assets of the Groups defined benefit schemes and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows: UK Overseas UK Overseas Expected Expected Expected Expected long-term long-term long-term long-term rate of rate of rate of rate of Fair value return Fair value return Fair value return Fair value return 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006 US$m %p.
Market value of schemes assets: Equities 733 8.1 n a 1,351 7.9 n a Fixed interest securities 336 5.4 n a 578 4.5 n a Other n a n a 23 3.7 68 5.0 1,069 7.3 n a 1,952 6.8 68 5.0 The expected return on plan assets has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments and securities are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
Expected returns on equity and other investments reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
x History of experience gains and losses: 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m Present value of defined benefit obligation 984 1,989 2,025 Fair value of scheme assets 1,069 2,020 1,814 Net pension asset obligation 85 31 211 2007 2006 2005 Experience adjustment arising on defined benefit obligation: Amount Gain loss US$m 119 228 33 Percentage of the present value of defined benefit obligation 12.5% 11.2% 1.7% Experience adjustment arising on scheme assets: Amount Loss gain US$m 53 241 Percentage of scheme assets 5.1% 11.6% b Defined Contribution Schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to such schemes and amounted to US$33m 2006: US$27m.
Other financial assets and liabilities Current Non-current Current Non-current 2007 2007 2006 2006 Other financial assets US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Cash flow hedge foreign exchange contracts 3 Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 20 38 Fair value hedge of borrowings cross currency swaps 29 47 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps 43 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 316 333 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 21 53 36 10 121 Available for sale assets: Listed 38 37 Total other financial assets 53 74 10 158 Current Non-current Current Non-current 2007 2007 2006 2006 Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 40 12 Net investment hedge foreign exchange contracts 23 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 10 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 42 Total other financial liabilities 40 37 14 The cash flow hedges related to the hedging of foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory by Home Retail Group.
The hedged cash flows were expected to occur up to one year in the future and were transferred to the Group income statement or inventory carrying values as applicable.
The fair value of foreign currency contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 99 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 26 Financial instruments a Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison of carrying values and fair values of the Groups financial instruments: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other receivables 660 660 1,611 1,611 Other financial assets 127 127 168 168 Cash and cash equivalents 907 907 385 385 Financial assets 1,694 1,694 2,164 2,164 Loans and Borrowings e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 688 690 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 722 620 622 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 630 595 599 Perpetual Securities 386 390 Bank loans 1,358 1,358 Overdrafts 273 273 245 245 2,372 2,376 3,892 3,904 Other financial liabilities 40 40 51 51 2 Trade and other payables 766 766 2,134 2,134 Financial liabilities 3,178 3,182 6,077 6,089 1.
VAT recoverable of US$1m 2006: US$17m and prepayments of US$144m 2006: US$291m are excluded from this analysis.
VAT and other tax payable of US$42m 2006: US$125m, social security costs of US$75m 2006: US$75m and accruals of US$200m 2006: US$231m are excluded from this analysis.
100 | Experian Annual Report 2007 26 Financial instruments continued b Additional information on financial assets The maturity profiles of financial assets are as follows: Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other receivables 660 660 Other financial assets 53 9 23 4 38 127 Cash and cash equivalents 907 907 1,620 9 23 4 38 1,694 Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other receivables 1,546 40 19 5 1 1,611 Other financial assets 10 57 14 42 9 36 168 Cash and cash equivalents 385 385 1,941 97 33 47 9 37 2,164 1.
Analysed by currency: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Sterling 955 1,415 US Dollar 331 315 Euro 364 392 Other 44 42 1,694 2,164 Analysed by interest rate profile: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Floating 775 387 Fixed 221 517 Non-interest bearing 698 1,260 1,694 2,164 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 101 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 26 Financial instruments continued c Additional information on financial liabilities i The contractual repricing dates of liabilities exposed to interest rate risk are as follows: Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and Borrowings e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 721 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 627 Overdrafts 273 273 2 Effect of interest rate swaps 130 408 272 390 656 Other financial liabilities 40 40 1 Trade and other payables 714 46 3 1 1 1 766 1,908 454 452 391 1 28 3,178 Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and Borrowings e568m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 688 688 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 620 620 350m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 595 595 Perpetual Securities 386 386 Bank loans 1,358 1,358 Overdrafts 245 245 2 Effect of interest rate swaps 825 762 495 240 291 609 Other financial liabilities 37 2 12 51 1 Trade and other payables 2,038 55 30 3 8 2,134 4,503 369 525 380 294 6 6,077 1.
These represent the gross notional values of interest rate swaps.
102 | Experian Annual Report 2007 26 Financial instruments continued c Additional information on financial liabilities continued ii Analysis of financial liabilities by currency: Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and Borrowings e548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 721 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 627 Overdrafts 4 269 273 2 Effect of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps 1,065 1,513 516 68 Other financial liabilities 40 40 1 Trade and other payables 207 409 120 30 766 534 1,922 624 98 3,178 Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and Borrowings e568m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 688 688 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 620 620 350m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 595 595 Perpetual Securities 386 386 Bank loans 696 662 1,358 Overdrafts 245 245 2 Effect of cross currency swaps 947 755 122 70 Other financial liabilities 51 51 1 Trade and other payables 1,552 454 108 20 2,134 2,953 1,871 1,163 90 6,077 1.
These represent the gross notional values of cross currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts if applicable.
iii Analysis of financial liabilities by interest rate profile: Non-interest Floating Fixed bearing Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,024 1,348 2,372 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 130 130 Other 40 766 806 1,194 1,218 766 3,178 Non-interest Floating Fixed bearing Total At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,603 2,289 3,892 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 825 825 Other 13 122 2,050 2,185 2,441 1,586 2,050 6,077 1.
These represent the gross notional value of interest rate swaps.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 103 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 26 Financial instruments continued c Additional information on financial liabilities continued iv Analysis of financial liabilities by maturity profile: Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and Borrowings 1,024 721 627 2,372 Other financial liabilities 40 40 1 Trade and other payables 714 46 3 1 1 1 766 1,738 46 724 1 1 668 3,178 Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and Borrowings 295 1,736 646 620 595 3,892 Other financial liabilities 37 2 12 51 1 Trade and other payables 2,038 55 30 3 8 2,134 2,370 1,793 676 620 3 615 6,077 1.
Deferred tax 2007 2006 US$m US$m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: Net deferred tax assets at 1 April 197 335 Differences on exchange 22 Income statement charge note 9 including US$5m 2006: US$68m relating to discontinued operations 54 109 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 39 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 89 Disposal of subsidiaries 7 Tax charged credited to equity 18 9 Transfers 1 25 Other movements 5 Net deferred tax assets at 31 March 35 197 The net deferred tax asset has been presented in the Group balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax asset 103 547 Deferred tax liabilities 68 350 Net deferred tax assets at 31 March 35 197 104 | Experian Annual Report 2007 27.
Deferred tax continued The movement in gross deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: a Deferred tax assets Share option Other Accelerated and award Asset temporary depreciation Intangibles schemes provisions Tax losses differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 6 164 42 90 33 212 547 Differences on exchange 4 9 1 12 26 Income statement charge 1 36 6 8 31 24 42 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 5 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 2 17 79 113 211 Transfers 24 24 Tax credited charged to equity 3 6 3 Other movements 2 2 At 31 March 2007 3 128 20 26 8 119 304 b Deferred tax liabilities Share option Other Property Accelerated and award Asset temporary valuations depreciation Intangibles schemes provisions Tax losses differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 52 64 62 1 6 165 350 Differences on exchange 5 4 8 1 8 26 Income statement charge 2 6 2 18 12 Acquisition of subsidiaries 7 7 Demerger of Home Retail Group note 30 b 52 36 1 33 122 Transfers 25 25 Tax charged to equity 21 21 At 31 March 2007 5 34 70 1 5 154 269 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$19m 2006: US$9m including US$3m relating to discontinued operations in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$22m 2006: US$78m including US$55m relating to discontinued operations in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,187m 2006: US$2,034m including US$10m relating to discontinued operations have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets recoverable within the next twelve months of US$120m 2006: US$110m and deferred tax liabilities payable within the next twelve months of US$10m 2006: US$7m.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 105 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 28.
Reconciliation of movements in equity On 10 October 2006, the separation of Experian and Home Retail Group was completed by way of demerger.
Trading of shares in Experian on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 11 October 2006.
As indicated in note 2, this transaction has been accounted for in these financial statements using the principles of merger accounting.
In accordance with the requirements of merger accounting, the nominal values of the issued share capital at 1 April 2005 and subsequent movements to the date of demerger have been amended to reflect the capital structure of Experian Group Limited.
These movements include the recognition of a share premium balance in Experian Group Limited on a reorganisation prior to the demerger and the subsequent reduction of share capital and the transfer of the associated share premium account to retained earnings.
On 11 October 2006, the Group raised US$1,441m, net of US$43m expenses, by way of a share offer.
The associated share premium account is not available for distribution.
Full details relating to the authorised and issued share capital of Experian Group Limited are contained in note J to the parent company financial statements.
Share capital has been translated at the historic exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Since the balance sheet date, 29,605 Ordinary shares in the Company have been issued in connection with the exercise of share options.
The dividend in specie of US$5,627m in the year ended 31 March 2007 relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group represents the net assets of Home Retail Group as at the date of the demerger and an analysis of the net assets is given in note 30 b.
The dividend in specie in the year ended 31 March 2006 related to the demerger of Burberry and represented the GUS plc Groups share of its net assets.
In connection with the demerger of Burberry and at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 13 December 2005, the shareholders of GUS plc approved a consolidation of GUS shares, replacing 1,023m Ordinary shares of 25p each with 880m Ordinary shares of 29 3 43p each.
The share consolidation was designed to keep the GUS share price at approximately the same level, subject to normal market movements, before and after the demerger of the Groups remaining interest in Burberry Group plc.
For every 1,000 Ordinary shares of 25p each held immediately prior to the demerger, shareholders received 305 Ordinary shares of 0.05p each in Burberry Group plc and 860 Ordinary shares of 29 3 43p each in GUS plc.
The associated reduction in the number of shares in GUS plc has been shown as a deduction from the number at 1 April 2005 in the following tables.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Attributable Equity Number Share Share Retained Other to equity minority Total of shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity Year ended 31 March 2007 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at 1 April 2006 879.2 88 16,256 5,683 16,575 5,452 2 5,454 Profit for the financial year 462 462 1 463 Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year 132 469 601 601 Share issues pre demerger of Home Retail Group 7.1 175 76 76 Cancellation of treasury shares pre demerger of Home Retail Group 8.9 1 178 179 Capital reduction 16,153 16,153 Share issues by way of Global Offer 142.9 14 1,427 1,441 1,441 Employee share option schemes: value of employee services 109 109 109 proceeds from shares issued 2.0 8 8 8 Exercise of share options 70 129 59 59 Purchase of ESOP shares 75 75 75 Relinquishment of Home Retail Group shares to employees and Home Retail Group 100 100 Equity dividends paid during the year note 11 401 401 401 Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group note 11 5,627 5,627 5,627 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 1 1 Balance at 31 March 2007 1,022.3 102 1,435 16,341 15,773 2,105 2 2,107 106 | Experian Annual Report 2007 28.
Reconciliation of movements in equity continued Attributable Equity Number Share Share Retained Other to equity minority Total of shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity Year ended 31 March 2006 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balances in GUS plc Group at 1 April 2005 874.4 478 130 5,610 445 5,773 486 6,259 Merger accounting adjustments to reflect new company structure: Elimination of GUS plc capital 478 130 608 608 GUS plc shares shown at Experian Group Limited nominal value 87 16,203 15,682 608 608 Balances in Experian Group Limited at 1 April 2005 874.4 87 16,203 5,610 16,127 5,773 486 6,259 Profit for the financial year 1,018 1,018 46 1,064 Net income expense recognised directly in equity for the financial year 10 419 409 19 428 Employee share option schemes: value of employee services 63 63 63 proceeds from shares issued 4.8 153 54 54 Decrease in minority interests arising due to corporate transactions 495 495 Purchase of ESOP shares 29 29 29 Equity dividends paid during the year note 11 508 508 508 Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Burberry Group plc note 11 513 513 513 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 13 13 Other movements 3 3 3 Balance at 31 March 2006 879.2 88 16,256 5,683 16,575 5,452 2 5,454 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 107 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 28.
Reconciliation of movements in equity continued IThe analysis of other reserves is as follows: Treasury Total and ESOP Merger Hedging Translation other shares reserve reserve reserve reserves Year ended 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 496 15,682 14 411 16,575 Cancellation of treasury shares pre demerger of Home Retail Group 179 179 Exercise of share options 129 129 Purchase of ESOP shares 75 75 Relinquishment of Home Retail Group shares to employees and Home Retail Group 100 100 Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year 4 465 469 Balance at 31 March 2007 163 15,682 18 54 15,773 Year ended 31 March 2006 Balances in GUS plc Group at 1 April 2005 467 18 4 445 Creation of merger reserve 15,682 15,682 Balances in Experian Group Limited at 1 April 2005 467 15,682 18 4 16,127 Purchase of ESOP shares 29 29 Net expense recognised directly in equity for the financial year 4 415 419 Balance at 31 March 2006 496 15,682 14 411 16,575 At 31 March 2007, the balance on the Treasury and ESOP shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased by the GUS ESOP Trust, the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan Trust to satisfy certain of the Groups obligations under its share incentive plans.
During the year these trusts purchased 7,775,076 shares at a cost of US$75m.
The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc, and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the global offer and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement 2007 2006 US$m US$m a Cash generated from operations Profit after tax 326 458 Adjustments for: Tax expense 68 92 Share of post tax profits of associates 67 66 Net financing costs 146 102 Operating profit 473 586 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 10 Depreciation and amortisation 303 270 Goodwill adjustment 14 Charge in respect of share incentive schemes 91 30 Exceptional items included in working capital 46 7 Increase in inventories 1 Increase in receivables 72 36 Increase in payables 82 12 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the Group income statement 4 5 Cash generated from operations 942 874 b Interest paid Interest paid on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 133 179 Total interest paid 133 179 c Acquisition of subsidiaries Purchase of subsidiary undertakings note 30 a 82 1,384 Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings note 30 a 8 Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions made in previous periods 44 36 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries 118 1,420 d Disposal of subsidiaries Proceeds of disposal of shares in Burberry 9 Proceeds of disposal of Wehkamp 384 Proceeds of disposal of shares in Lewis 250 Receipt of deferred consideration in respect of home shopping and Reality 258 Cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 258 643 e Financing Debt due within one year: Repayment of borrowings 42 63 Debt due after more than one year: Repayment of borrowings 1,381 New borrowings 647 Net cash flow from debt financing 1,423 584 Experian Annual Report 2007 | 109 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 29.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued 2007 2006 US$m US$m f Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 798 293 Short-term investments 109 92 Cash and cash equivalents per Group balance sheet 907 385 Overdrafts 273 246 Cash and cash equivalents per Group cash flow statement 634 139 Analysed as: Cash and cash equivalents continuing operations 634 89 Cash and cash equivalents discontinued operations 228 Cash and cash equivalents per Group cash flow statement 634 139 g Major non-cash transactions The Group did not enter into any new finance lease arrangements during the year 2006: US$nil.
Acquisitions and demerger of Home Retail Group a Acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2007 During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group made several acquisitions, none of which are considered individually material to the Group, including Eiger Systems a leading provider of bank validation payment software in the UK and Ireland.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of US$20m and profit after tax of US$3m to the Group for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2007.
If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2006, further revenues of US$12m would have been reported.
Due to the acquired entities using different accounting policies prior to acquisition, previously reporting to different period ends and, in certain cases, preparing financial information on a cash basis prior to acquisition, it has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit had they been owned from 1 April 2006.
Details of the net assets acquired and the provisional goodwill are as follows: Book value Fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 20 Property, plant and equipment 44 Deferred tax assets 5 Trade and other receivables 55 Cash, net of overdrafts 88 Trade and other payables 12 15 Deferred tax liabilities 7 Net assets acquired 520 Goodwill 71 91 Satisfied by: Cash 80 Acquisition expenses 2 Deferred consideration 9 91 The fair values set out above contain certain provisional amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Fair value adjustments in respect of acquisitions made during the year resulted in an increase to book value of US$15m and arose principally in respect of acquisition intangibles.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
Deferred consideration is primarily payable in cash up to three years after the date of acquisition and in some cases is contingent on the businesses acquired achieving revenue and profit targets.
The deferred consideration settled during the year on acquisitions made in previous years was US$44m.
Acquisitions and demerger of Home Retail Group continued b Demerger of Home Retail Group As indicated in note 2, the distribution of shares in Home Retail Group plc to shareholders in GUS plc at the date of demerger has been accounted for as a dividend in specie.
This represents the Groups share of the net assets of Home Retail Group at the date of demerger which comprised: US$m Intangible assets 3,716 Property, plant and equipment 1,299 Deferred tax assets 211 Retirement benefit assets 41 Inventories 1,765 Trade and other receivables 1,036 Cash and cash equivalents 518 Trade and other payables 2,156 Current tax payable 72 Loans and borrowings 435 Deferred tax liabilities 122 Provisions 174 Groups share of net assets of Home Retail Group on demerger 5,627 31.
Share-based payment arrangements Prior to the demerger, Experian employees participated in share-based incentive plans in respect of the Ordinary shares in GUS plc.
On demerger, certain GUS awards vested early and Experian incurred an exceptional charge of US$15m on the acceleration of these awards.
On demerger, the majority of Experian participants outstanding GUS share and option awards rolled-over into Experian equivalent awards.
A limited number of share and share option awards remained as GUS awards and participants had entitlement to one Home Retail Group share and one Experian share in lieu of each GUS share allocated.
Experian rolled-over awards are share-based incentive plans in respect of the Ordinary shares in Experian Group Limited.
The quantity and exercise price of grants were modified to adjust for the difference between the GUS and Experian share prices.
The roll-over resulted in an incremental change in fair value of US$8m, which was incurred as an exceptional item.
The incremental fair value was primarily as a result of an assumption in respect of the higher volatility of the Experian share price.
Early vesting and modification changes have been recorded as an exceptional item note 7.
Option and share prices are disclosed in Sterling reflecting the currency in which the Ordinary shares of GUS plc and Experian Group Limited are quoted.
a Options in respect of Ordinary shares i Summary of arrangements Experian demerger plan Experian Share Option Plan The Experian Share Option Plan includes awards made at and after demerger together with awards rolled-over from former GUS plans and arrangements were as follows: Nature Grant of options Vesting conditions: Service period 3 and 4 years Performance Other n a Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date n a Maximum term 10 years Method of settlement Share distribution Expected departures at grant date 5% 1 Option exercise price calculation Market price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant 1.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of an Experian Group Limited share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 111 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 31.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Experian Roll-over plans formerly GUS plans The arrangements in respect of former GUS plans which were in place in the year ended 31 March 2006 and in the period from 1 April 2006 to the date of demerger were as follows: The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive The North America Stock Savings related share Arrangements Share Option Schemes Option Plan option schemes Nature Grant of options Grant of options Save as you earn scheme Vesting conditions: Service period 3 years 1, 2 and 3 years 3 or 5 years Performance Other EPS growth performance n a Saving obligation over the 1 condition vesting period Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date Condition is satisfied n a n a Maximum term 10 years 6 years 3.5 or 5.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution 2 Expected departures at grant date 5% 1 year 0% 3 years 30% 2 2 years 15% 5 years 50% 3 years 20% 3 Option exercise price calculation Market price over the Market price over the 20% discount to market price 3 dealing days preceding 3 dealing days preceding over the 3 dealing days the grant the grant preceding the grant 1.
The performance condition for The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes required average Benchmark EPS growth to exceed the average growth in the general index of retail prices by at least 4% p. a. over a 3 year period.
The period of assessment commenced at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
This is not a market based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The stated values for expected departures include participants who did not meet the savings requirement of the scheme.
Three day averages were calculated by taking middle market quotations of a GUS plc share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
ii Weighted average share price 2007 2006 1 Weighted average share price of Experian Group Limited 5.90 n a GUS plc share price at demerger 9.90 n a 2 Weighted average share price of GUS plc 9.82 9.32 1.
Experians weighted average share price for 2007 is for the period from the listing date, 11 October 2006, to 31 March 2007.
Weighted average share price for 2007 is in respect of the period up to demerger.
Options in respect of the Ordinary shares of Experian Group Limited and GUS plc were exercised on a regular basis throughout the periods that the respective shares were in issue.
iii Information relating to option valuation techniques For the Experian demerger plans and the former GUS plans the Black-Scholes model is used to determine an appropriate value of the option grants.
Inputs into the model are calculated as follows: Expected volatility: Experian demerger plans As shares in Experian Group Limited were newly listed during the year, there is insufficient share price history in order to calculate historical volatility.
Accordingly to arrive at a reasonable volatility assumption an analysis of the share price volatility of comparable companies was performed.
Expected volatility: former GUS plans Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year was assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Volatility for year 4 and beyond was assumed to remain at the long run 10 year observed historic volatility.
Linear interpolation was assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected dividend yield Yields are based on the current consensus analyst forecast figures at the time of grant.
The inputs utilised are an average of the forecast over the next three financial years.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Risk-free rate Rates are obtained from the UK Government Debt Management Office website which details historical prices and yields for gilt strips.
Expected option life to exercise: Experian Share Option Plans The Experian Share Option Plans vest 50% after 3 years and 50% after 4 years.
The expected life is 4 years for the 50% that vest after 3 years and 4.85 years for the 50% that vest after 4 years.
Expected option life to exercise: former GUS plans The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes had expected lives of 4 years, the North American Stock Option Plan had an expected life of 3.75 years and the Savings related share option schemes had expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Share price on grant date: Experian Share Option Plans The majority of the grants were made on 11 October 2006.
As this was Experians first trading day, the weighted average price of trades was used.
For subsequent grants, the closing price on the day of grant was used.
Share price on grant date: former GUS plans The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Option exercise price Exercise price as stated in the term of each award.
The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models, for the Experian Share Option Plans, are as follows: Weighted average 2007 Fair value 1.26 Share price on grant date 5.63 Exercise price 5.61 Expected volatility 28.0% Expected dividend yield 3.3% Risk-free rate 4.9% Expected option life to exercise 4.43 years The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models, for the former GUS plans, are as follows: The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive The North America Stock Savings related share Arrangements Share Option Schemes Option Plan option schemes Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average 1 1 1 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Fair value 2.06 1.60 2.00 1.52 n a 2.46 Share price on grant date 9.35 8.53 9.35 8.48 n a 8.96 Exercise price 9.26 8.61 9.26 8.59 n a 6.87 Expected volatility 29.4% 27.8% 29.1% 27.4% n a 25.5% Expected dividend yield 3.5% 4.0% 3.5% 4.0% n a 3.8% Risk-free rate 4.7% 4.3% 4.7% 4.3% n a 4.1% Expected option life to exercise 4 years 4 years 3.75 years 3.75 years n a 3.56 years 1.
Weighted average for the period up to demerger.
Options over GUS plc shares granted in the period from 1 April 2006 to demerger had a weighted average fair value of 2.03 2006: 1.82.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 113 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 31.
Share-based payment arrangements continued iv Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options Weighted Number of average options exercise price m 2006 2006 Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 27.8 6.34 New grants 8.3 8.12 1 Forfeitures 1.5 6.53 Exercised options 5.9 6.09 Expired options 0.5 6.60 Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the end of the year 28.2 6.90 Options in respect of GUS plc shares exercisable at the end of the year 5.9 6.41 1.
For the Savings related share option schemes, this includes non-leavers who have failed the savings requirement.
Weighted Number of average options exercise price m 2007 2007 Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 28.2 6.90 New grants 7.7 9.26 Forfeitures 0.8 7.62 Exercised options 7.1 5.71 Options in respect of shares in GUS plc at demerger 28.0 7.83 Less: options rolled-over into Home Retail Group share plans 10.3 7.50 Less: GUS awards forfeited post demerger 0.3 7.21 Less: GUS awards exercised post demerger 0.6 7.29 GUS options rolled-over into Experian equivalent awards 16.8 8.06 Conversion to Experian Group Limited awards at an average roll-over ratio of 1.76 12.8 Experian equivalent roll-over awards 29.6 4.56 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited granted on or after demerger 4.2 5.61 Forfeitures 0.8 5.09 Exercises 1.6 3.72 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at the end of the year 31.4 4.73 Options in respect of Experian Group Limited shares exercisable at the end of the year 8.0 3.89 v Options outstanding at the end of the year Options in respect of Experian Group Limited shares outstanding at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: At 31 March 2007 Range of Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives exercise of average prices options exercise 1 price Expected Contractual m years years 2-3 0.2 2.74 1.1 2.3 3-4 7.1 3.71 0.2 3.6 4-5 10.4 4.67 1.7 6.0 5-6 13.8 5.33 3.3 7.7 1.
To the extent that options have been rolled-over into Experian demerger plans, the 2007 inputs for share price at grant date and exercise price have been rebased to be comparable with the Experian Group Limited share price at demerger and reflect the consequent changes to option terms.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Options in respect of GUS plc shares outstanding at 31 March 2006 had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: At 31 March 2006 Weighted Weighted average remaining lives Range of Number average exercise of exercise prices options price Expected Contractual m years years 0-6 5.2 4.56 0.7 1.4 6-7 12.4 6.61 1.2 4.8 7-8 0.1 7.57 1.6 6.6 8-9 10.5 8.39 3.9 6.0 b Share awards in respect of Ordinary shares i Summary of arrangements Experian demerger share plans: The following arrangements include awards made at and after demerger together with awards rolled over from former GUS plans: Experian Free Shares Plan Experian and the Experian Experian Reinvestment Performance Share UK Approved AllArrangements Plan Plan Employee Plan Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 3 to 5 years 5 years 3 years Performance n a 50% Benchmark profit 50% Benchmark profit performance of Group performance of Group assessed against specified assessed against specified 1 1 targets targets 50% n a 50% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total Shareholder Return relative 2 to a comparator group Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date n a 52.3% n a Maximum term 5 years 5 years 3.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures at grant date 5% 5% 15% 1.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Reinvestment Plan and Experian Performance Share Plan requires profit before tax growth to at least exceed 10 14% over a 3 year period.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
This is not a Market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The condition is applied to half of the awarded shares.
The Experian Performance Share Plan Total Shareholder Return is considered a Market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
It has been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian Group Limited.
The fair value of awards was calculated as 52.3% of the weighted average share price for Experian Group Limiteds first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 115 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 31.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Former GUS share plans: The arrangements in respect of former GUS plans which were in place in the year ended 31 March 2006 and in the period from 1 April 2006 to the date of demerger were as follows: Arrangements Co-Investment Plan Matching Shares Performance Share Plan 1 Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 4 years 3 years Performance Benchmark profit performance of Group Division Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total assessed against specified targets Shareholder Return relative to a comparator group Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date Participants meet target performance 50.6% for June 2006 grant 60.0% for June 2005 grant Maximum term 4 years 3 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures at grant date 7% 5% 1.
The Matching Shares are a nil consideration option and have been classified as an award of shares because the nature of the award is the same.
The Performance Share Plan performance condition is considered a Market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
It was valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three year period preceding valuation.
On conversion to IFRS, the fair value of awards was calculated as 60% of the share price at date of grant.
This valuation has applied to all grants up to 31 March 2006.
It was deemed necessary to re-run the Monte Carlo simulation for the year ended 31 March 2007 as Group activity made the calculation on conversion to IFRS inappropriate.
The fair value of awards granted in June 2006 was calculated as 50.6% of the share price at date of grant.
The grant date for the Experian Co-Investment plan and the former GUS Co-Investment plan is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the quantity of the shares award is determined.
The underlying value of the award is known at the grant date, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of issue to participants.
ii Information relating to share grant valuation techniques The majority of the grants were made on Experian Group Limited shares first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange and trading was particularly volatile on this day.
The weighted average share price for that days trading is being used to determine the value of Experian demerger share awards.
For the former GUS plans the value of awards is determined as the observed market closing rate on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the Experian Co-Investment plan and the former GUS Co-Investment plan, this occurs after the first year of performance is assessed.
The Experian demerger and former GUS Performance Share plans market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Under the share awards, participants have an entitlement to dividend distributions from the issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market rate on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
No modifications are made for dividend distributions or other factors.
iii Reconciliation of share awards outstanding Number of options m 2006 Share awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 4.9 New grants 2.0 Forfeitures 1.3 Vesting 0.6 Share awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the end of the year 5.0 116 | Experian Annual Report 2007 31.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Number of options m 2007 Share awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at the beginning of the year 5.0 New grants 2.8 Vesting 4.2 Awards in respect of shares in GUS plc at demerger 3.6 Less awards rolled-over into Home Retail Group share plans 0.7 GUS share awards to Experian participants at demerger 2.9 Conversion to Experian Group awards at an average roll-over ratio of 1.78 2.3 Experian equivalent roll-over awards 5.2 Share awards in respect of Experian Group Limited on or after demerger 19.8 Forfeitures 0.4 Share awards in Experian Group Limited outstanding at the end of the year 24.6 For Experian demerger plans there were 19,022,982 shares granted in 2007, with a weighted average award fair value of 5.20.
For former GUS plans there were 2,814,465 shares granted in 2007 2006: 2,635,145, with a weighted average award fair value of 6.74 2006: 7.69. c Modification of GUS awards to Experian participants i Details of modification Prior to demerger, Experian participants held share incentive grants with entitlement to GUS share distributions.
On demerger, the majority of outstanding awards were rolled-over into plans with entitlement to Experian Group Limited share distributions.
The quantity and exercise price of awards were modified to maintain an equivalent compensation as the original GUS grants.
The incremental fair value of the modification was US$8m.
ii Information relating to modified options In total, 16.9m GUS options were rolled-over into 30.0m Experian Group Limited options.
A Black-Scholes model was used to determine the fair value of GUS and Experian Group Limited awards for modified grants.
The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the BlackScholes model are as follows: Weighted average GUS Experian awards awards Fair value 2.71 1.64 Share price on modification date 9.90 5.62 Exercise price 8.08 4.57 Expected volatility 25.6% 27.6% Expected dividend yield 3.7% 3.7% Risk-free rate 4.9% 4.9% Expected option life to exercise 3.48 years 3.48 years iii Information relating to modified share awards Weighted average GUS Experian awards awards Quantity modified millions 4.9 8.7 Weighted average fair value 8.14 4.67 d Other share awards During the year Experian Group Limited issued put options to a small number of employees who own an equity interest in a subsidiary.
These options vest on 31 March 2008 assuming the employees remain with the Group and they will be exercisable from that date onwards.
These options are accounted for under IFRS 2 as performance conditions are linked to employment with the subsidiary.
The options will be exercisable at a value based on 20% of the prevailing market value of the subsidiary for which these employees work and this value is capped at US$50m.
The option will be settled in Experian Group Limited shares.
The expected number of shares is 122,000.
The option was purchased for US$0.7m by the employees at fair value as calculated by third party valuation specialists.
This valuation is based on the forecast revenue model of the subsidiary.
No cost will arise over the vesting period as the purchase price of the option was its market value.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 117 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 31.
Share-based payment arrangements continued e Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of Ordinary shares 2007 2006 US$m US$m Share option awards 30 23 Share grant awards 72 28 Total expense recognised all equity settled 102 51 Associated National Insurance costs 4 2 Total expense recognised 106 53 The expense is reported as follows: Employee cost included in Benchmark PBT 34 34 Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 23 Discontinued operations 15 17 Exceptional item charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 23 Exceptional item other costs incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 7 Total expense recognised all equity settled 102 51 Associated National Insurance costs: Included in Benchmark PBT 3 2 Excluded from Benchmark PBT 1 Total expense recognised 106 53 32.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 2007 2006 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring in: Less than one year 65 590 Between one and five years 150 2,153 More than five years 64 4,431 279 7,174 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Capital commitments 2007 2006 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 11 94 Intangible assets 2 11 96 34.
Contingencies In the United States, there are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving Experian which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Related parties The ultimate parent company of the Group is Experian Group Limited which is incorporated in Jersey.
The principal subsidiary and associate undertakings at 31 March 2007 are shown in note O to the financial statements of the ultimate parent company.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties of Experian: Associates During the year the Group made net sales and recharges, under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties, to First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES and its associate First Advantage Corporation, of US$29m 2006: US$21m.
Amounts receivable from FARES are shown within note 18.
These amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received in the year.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Subsidiaries Transactions between the ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Home Retail Group Under the terms of the demerger agreement entered into in August 2006, the Group has contracted to provide certain services to Home Retail Group on a transitional basis for a period of not more than two years after the date of the demerger.
The fees payable for these services are determined on an arms length basis.
Since the demerger, the Group has charged US$0.3m to Home Retail Group in respect of these services.
Since the date of demerger Experian has made sales of US$10m to Home Retail Group companies on normal commercial terms.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 6 c. During the year there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
Other related parties There were no other material related party transactions.
Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
