70409 accounts 30 5 07 20:57 Page 50 50 Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Year ended 31 March 2007 1.
General information Expro International Group PLC the Group is a company incorporated in England & Wales under the Companies Act 1985 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and within the directors report.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the parent company which is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairments IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Expro International Group PLC the Company and the enterprises under its control its subsidiaries.
Control is defined as the ability to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to business combinations that took place before 1 April 2004.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Significant accounting policies continued The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is defined as when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group reports its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment with any impairment being charged to the income statement as it arises.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, the impairment loss is first allocated to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit.
Any remainder is then allocated to the assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture operation, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
With the exception of goods sold under construction contracts, sales of goods are normally recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Stage of completion is determined by reference to the extent to which obligations identified at the commencement of the contract are considered to have been met.
These obligations may be contractual or non-contractual.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense.
70409 accounts 30 5 07 20:57 Page 52 52 Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Year ended 31 March 2007 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets at the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as finance leases.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Foreign currencies In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies that comprise the Group, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value is determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
On consolidation, income statements of foreign operations are translated into sterling at monthly average rates which approximate to the actual rate for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on all balances, except foreign currency loans accounted for as net investment hedges, are taken to the income statement.
Exchange differences arising on consolidation of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with those on foreign currency loans accounted for as net investment hedges, are taken to equity.
An intra-group monetary item for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, a part of the Groups net investment in the foreign operation.
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation is recognised in a separate component of equity.
On disposal of foreign operations, the cumulative amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in equity for that foreign operation are to be transferred to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group reset these cumulative translation differences to zero on the transition to IFRS.
Retirement benefits costs The Group provides pensions to its employees and directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are wholly funded and their assets are held independently by trustees.
Payments to defined contribution benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds in future contributions to the plan.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Significant accounting policies continued The current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiary undertakings and jointly controlled entities except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, which include patents, licences and capitalised software expenditure, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset as follows: Patents and licences between 1 and 35 years Trade names between 1 and 15 years Customer relationships and contracts between 1 and 15 years Other between 1 and 10 years Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value can be reliably measured are separated from goodwill and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Property leasehold over the period of the lease freehold 50 years Plant and equipment between 3 and 12 years Assets in the course of construction are shown at historical cost less any provision for impairment.
Depreciation on these assets commences when they are placed in service.
Assets attributable to specific projects are depreciated over the useful life of the relevant project.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as equivalent owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
70409 accounts 30 5 07 20:57 Page 54 54 Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Year ended 31 March 2007 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development costs which are expected to generate probable future economic benefits would be capitalised in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
All other development expenditure is charged to the income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their current location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the average cost method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at fair value with appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The Group does not capitalise any interest with respect to bank borrowings.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the board of directors, which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Significant accounting policies continued Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment of forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 which had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment schemes under which shares are issued to certain employees.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payment is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For schemes with only market based performance conditions, those conditions are taken into account in arriving at the fair value at the grant date.
Accordingly, no subsequent adjustment to the amortised fair value is made for achievement or otherwise of those conditions.
For schemes that include non-market based conditions or no conditions, a true-up model is applied to the expense at each reporting date based on the expected number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a random walk stochastic model which takes into account exercise price, share price at date of grant, expected life, expected volatility of the share price, risk free interest rate and the expected dividend yield.
Exceptional items and change of presentation In the current year, the Group amended the format of the income statement in order to improve the information provided to the users of the financial statements.
As permitted by IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the Income Statement.
Exceptional items are classified as those which management have identified and disclosed as material one-off or unusual items and which are not considered to be part of the core operations of the Group.
In addition, the Group has separately disclosed intangible asset amortisation that arises on business combinations which is added back to arrive at underlying performance.
Management believes this gives a useful additional measure of profit and earnings and the Group focuses on underlying performance in order to compare performance year on year.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact on the financial statements.
The most critical of these are: Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment In order to carry out the Groups operations, it is necessary for it to hold significant amounts of property, plant and equipment.
At 31 March 2007, the carrying value of property, plant and equipment was 194.3m 2006: 95.4m.
These assets are depreciated in accordance with the policy outlined within this note.
Management reviews the appropriateness of assets useful economic lives at least annually and assesses any changes which could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
Management believe that its approach to assessing useful economic lives, and in particular its assessment of whether assets are attributable to specific projects, is appropriate.
