70409 accounts 30 5 07 20:57 Page 50 50 Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Year ended 31 March 2007 1.
General information Expro International Group PLC the Group is a company incorporated in England & Wales under the Companies Act 1985 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and within the directors report.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the parent company which is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairments IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Expro International Group PLC the Company and the enterprises under its control its subsidiaries.
Control is defined as the ability to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to business combinations that took place before 1 April 2004.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
