70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 42 42 Annual report and accounts 2007 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors have chosen to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of the IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expense set out in the International Accounting Standard Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to ensure that users understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for: keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group: for safeguarding assets: for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities: and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, as applicable.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
