70409 accounts 30 5 07 20:57 Page 87 Annual report and accounts 200787 Notes to the Company Acounts Year ended 31 March 2007 36.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting standards.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
New standards At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: FRS 26 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement amendment FRS 29 Financial instruments: Disclosures The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the individual Company when the standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Employee share schemes The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment schemes under which shares are issued to certain Group employees.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payment is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For schemes with only market based performance conditions, those conditions are taken into account in arriving at the fair value at the grant date.
Accordingly no subsequent adjustment to the amortised fair value is made for achievement or otherwise of those conditions.
For schemes that include non-market based conditions or no conditions, a true-up model is applied to the expense at each reporting date based on the expected number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a random walk stochastic model, which takes into account exercise price, share price at date of grant, expected life, expected volatility of the share price, risk free interest rate and the expected dividend yield.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20 the standard has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 which had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions conferred by FRS 8 Related Parties, not to disclose such transactions, as the Company accounts are presented together with the consolidated accounts.
Cash flow The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement in accordance with the exemptions available to it under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements.
Profit for the year As permitted by the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 30,000 2006: 30,000.
