2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 1, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
Retirement benets note 38 within the UK, the group operates a number of approved dened benefit schemes.
The pension costs relating to the retirement plans are accounted for under IAS 19 Employee benets with the cost of providing retirement benets determined using the projected unit credit method, and actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates, expected returns on plan assets, compensation increases and mortality rates.
These actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually and modied as appropriate in accordance with the advice of independent qualied actuaries.
Share-based payments note 29 the group offers share and share option plans to certain employees as part of their compensation and benets package, designed to improve alignment of the interests of employees with those of shareholders.
The costs relating to these share-based payments are accounted for under IFRS 2 Share-based payments, those costs being calculated principally using the Black-Scholes model as a valuation basis.
Inherent in these calculations are key assumptions regarding expected volatility, an appropriate risk free rate and expected dividend yield.
These assumptions are reviewed annually and modied as appropriate.
Taxation note 10 accruals for tax contingencies require the exercising of judgement in relation to potential tax exposures.
Amounts accrued are based on interpretation of tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Tax benets are not recognised unless the tax positions are probable of being sustained.
Once considered to be probable, each material tax benefit is reviewed to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the potential settlement.
All such provisions are included within current liabilities.
Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised requiring judgements to be made in respect of the forecast of future taxable income.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Goodwill and Intangible assets notes 15 and 16 the group has significant investments in both goodwill and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions of businesses and purchases of such assets.
Goodwill and certain intangible assets are held at cost and tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash ow projections, which require an estimate of both future operating cash ows and an appropriate discount rate.
Such estimates are inherently subjective.
No impairments to goodwill or intangible assets were identied in 2007 or 2006.
Derivative financial instruments note 26 derivative financial instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement unless specic hedge accounting criteria are met.
These fair values are based upon readily obtainable market price quotations.
However, these are only an estimate of how future prices will move and are inherently subjective.
Trade receivables note 21 trade receivables are recognised on the balance sheet at original invoice amount less provision for impairment.
Provisions for impairment are established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due and are based on anticipated collection rates at each year end.
These collection rates are estimated based on historical and current trends and are inherently subjective.
