Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information and Accounting Policies Findel plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 8.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5, and in the Chairmans Statement and Finance Directors Review on pages 2 to 7.
These financial statements are presented in sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there are a number of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective which have not been applied in these financial statements, the most significant of which are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group except for the additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments required by IFRS 7, which comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the group no longer has control.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company.
Associates Associates are entities over which the group has significant inuence but not control.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the Investee but is not control or joint control over these policies.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The groups share of net assets of its associates, loans, and non-equity investments made to associates is included in the group balance sheet.
The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the groups equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying value whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
During the period covered by this report, the group was organised into four core divisions which were the primary business segments: Home Shopping: Educational Supplies: Healthcare: and Services.
