Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Report and the accounts.
The Directors are required to presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also have chosen to prepare Company financial statements required to: in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable required to prepare financial statements for each financial and understandable information: year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company provide additional disclosures when compliance with for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to the Directors are required to: enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them entitys financial position and financial performance: and consistently: prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable having assessed the ability of the Company to continue and prudent: as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no state whether applicable accounting standards have realistic alternative but to do so.
been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping proper basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the accounting records which disclose with reasonable Company will continue in business.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of for each financial year the Companys financial position, a Directors report and Directors Remuneration Report financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the which comply with the requirements of the Companies faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other Act 1985. events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and expenses set out in the International Accounting and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
41 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
