Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information FirstGroup plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is 395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 16.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 2.
The parent Company financial statements and notes thereto are shown separately under UK GAAP on pages 83 to 90.
2 Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity interest therein.
Minority interests consist of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of the changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2 Significant accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently where there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition Revenue principally comprises revenue from train passenger and freight services, road passenger transport, and certain management and maintenance services in the UK and North America.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales taxes.
Revenue in UK Rail includes franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport DfT and Transport Scotland.
Payments to the DfT for amounts due under the terms of a franchise are included in operating costs.
Revenue also includes amounts attributable to the train operating companies TOCs, predominantly based on models of route usage, by the Railway Settlement Plan in respect of passenger receipts.
Where season tickets are issued in excess of one weeks duration, the attributable share of income is deferred within creditors and is recognised in the income statement over the period covered by the season ticket.
UK Bus revenue principally comprises amounts receivable from ticket sales and concessionary fare schemes.
Concessionary amounts are recognised in the period in which the service is provided based on a predetermined formula as agreed with the relevant local authority.
Other Bus, including North America, and services revenue from contracts with government bodies and similar organisations are recognised as the services are provided.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and the rental charges are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
47 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Assets held under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group holds currency swaps and net foreign borrowings in foreign currencies see below for details of the Groups policies in respect of derivative financial instruments and foreign exchange risks.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising from the average or spot exchange rates used and the period end rate, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs and other non-recurring items but before investment income and borrowing costs.
Non-recurring items Non-recurring items are material items of income or expenditure which due to their size, nature and infrequency, require separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years.
48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2 Significant accounting policies continued Retirement benefit costs The Group operates or participates in a number of pension schemes, which include both defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
There is no legal or constructive obligation to pay contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Various train operating companies in the UK Rail business participate in the Railways Pension Scheme, which is an industrywide defined benefit scheme.
The Group is obligated to fund the relevant section of the scheme over the period for which the franchise is held.
The full liability is recognised on the balance sheet, which is then reduced by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability reflects the Groups obligations to fund the scheme over the franchise term.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
49 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
