Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 12 July 2007 Shares trade ex dividend 18 July 2007 Record date for final dividend 20 July 2007 Final dividend payment 24 August 2007 Interim results announced November 2007 Interim dividend paid February 2008 Preliminary announcement of full year results May 2008 Shareholders recorded on the register at this date will receive the final dividend.
92 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group overview We are the leader in safe, innovative, reliable, sustainable transport services global in scale and local in approach.
Alaska First ScotRail Hull Trains First Great Western First TransPennine Seattle Express First Capital Connect Detroit Chicago New York GB Railfreight Washington Sleeper Trains are shown as Cincinnati San Francisco dotted lines in the corresponding rail company colour.
Los Angeles Miami First Student Alaska Alaska Seattle Seattle Detroit Detroit Chicago Chicago New York New York St. Croix, Virgin Islands Washington Washington Cincinnati Cincinnati San Francisco San Francisco Los Angeles Los Angeles Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Miami Miami First Transit First Services UK Rail operations UK Bus operations UK Rail: We are the UKs largest rail UK Bus: We are the UKs largest bus North America: Headquartered operator running nearly a quarter of the operator, running more than one in in Cincinnati, Ohio, our three UK passenger rail network and carrying five of all local bus services.
divisions have operations across some 260 million passengers a year.
We have a strong, balanced portfolio and we are the only Our fleet of nearly 9,000 buses carries 2.9 million First Student airport shuttle bus services in the US, serving airports in cities Printed by Royle Corporate Print, a Carbon operator to run every type of overground rail service in the passengers every day in over 40 major towns and cities.
We are the second largest provider of student transportation in such as Baltimore, Philadelphia and Miami.
We also manage call Neutral company.
UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight sleepers The majority of our operations are in urban areas where North America with a fleet of approximately 22,000 yellow school centres, paratransit operations and other light transit activities.
to local branch lines, regional and commuter services and the bus is the most effective means of tackling traffic buses, operating every day across the US and Canada.
We are The paper used to produce this Report is open access, light rail and freight operations.
We continue to develop and promote dedicated to providing the safest and most efficient student First Services made from Elemental Chlorine Free ECF four passenger rail franchises: First Capital Connect, First effective partnerships and we are working with local transportation service in North America.
Our ethos is A safer Our Services division is the largest private sector provider of pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Great Western, First ScotRail and First TransPennine authorities and other stakeholders to provide punctual and better way to the school day.
vehicle maintenance and support services in the US.
We provide The inks are vegetable based.
We also operate Hull Trains, a non-franchised open and reliable services for passengers through Punctuality fleet maintenance for private and public sector customers such as and manufacturing mill is accredited with access operator.
We also provide freight services through Improvement Partnerships, bus priority and other traffic First Transit the Federal Government, cities and fire and police departments.
the ISO 14001 Environmental Management GB Railfreight and operate the Croydon Tramlink network management schemes.
We are one of the largest private sector providers of transit We also provide a range of services including vehicle maintenance, System BS-EN-ISO12001:2006. which carries over 24 million passengers per annum.
We management and contracting, managing public transport systems logistics support and facilities management to public and private have a strong track record of innovation and investment on behalf of transit authorities in cities such as Los Angeles, sector clients including the US Navy and US Air Force.
When you have finished with this Report, delivering improved services, such as new rolling stock Houston and Denver.
We are also one of the largest providers of please dispose of it responsibly.
and customer facilities across our rail operations.
CANADA USA CANADA CANADA USA USA FirstGroup plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 This has been a year of excellent progress across the Group, building on our position as the leading transport provider.
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality and reliable services throughout our business.
The safety of our passengers and employees is our highest priority and we strive to lead the industry in this area and achieve the highest possible standards across the Group.
Principal and Registered Office FirstGroup plc 395 King Street Aberdeen AB24 5RP Telephone: 01224 650100 Facsimile: 01224 650140 1 Financial highlights 44 Consolidated balance sheet 2 Chairmans statement 45 Consolidated cash flow statement Registered in Scotland 3 Chief Executives review 46 Notes to the consolidated number SC157176 17 Finance Directors review financial statements 22 Board of Directors 80 Independent auditors report London Office 24 Corporate governance 82 Group financial summary FirstGroup plc 31 Directors remuneration report 83 Company balance sheet 38 Directors report 84 Notes to the Company 50 Eastbourne Terrace 41 Directors responsibilities financial statements Paddington 42 Consolidated income statement 90 Independent auditors report London W2 6LX 43 Consolidated statement of 91 Shareholder information Telephone: 020 7291 0505 recognised income and expense 92 Financial calendar Facsimile: 020 7636 1338 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2007
