Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries The Companys share register is maintained on our behalf by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who are responsible for making dividend payments and updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders addresses and purchases and sales of the Companys shares.
If you have any questions about your shareholding in the Company or need to notify any changes to your personal details you should contact: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Employees with queries about shares held in the Companys employee share schemes should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the same address or by telephoning 0870 241 3938.
Duplicate shareholder accounts If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may indicate that more than one account is held in your name on the Register.
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly.
If you believe more than one account exists in your name you may contact the Registrars to request that the accounts are combined.
There is no charge for this service.
Direct dividend payments If you would like your dividend to be paid directly into your bank or building society account, you should contact the Registrars or complete the dividend mandate attached to your dividend cheque.
Mandating your dividends has a number of advantages.
Firstly, the dividend will go into your account on the payment date there is no chance of it being delayed in the post and you do not have to wait for a cheque to clear.
Secondly, the payment method is more secure than receiving a cheque through the post.
Thirdly, you still receive tax information about the dividend, which is sent direct to you at your registered address.
Online information The Registrars also provide an online service enabling you to access details of your shareholding.
To view your details and a range of general information about holding shares, visit www.
FirstGroup policy on discounts for shareholders Shareholders are reminded that it is not Group policy to offer travel or other discounts to shareholders, as they may be used only by a small number of individuals.
The Group would rather maximise dividends, which are of benefit to all shareholders.
Unsolicited mail As the Companys share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations that use it as a mailing list.
To limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, write to the Mailing Preference Society, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7EZ or register online at www.
