Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Tuesday 29th April 2008 below up to an aggregate nominal value of 1.14m at 11.00am in The Board Room, The Caledonian Hilton Hotel, the Section 89 Amount : Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB.
and shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of PLEASE NOTE that the seventeenth Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution, or on 28th July FORTH PORTS PLC will be held in The Board Room, The Caledonian 2009 whichever is the earlier, the Prescribed Period save that Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 11.00am on after such expiry, the Directors may allot equity securities in Tuesday 29th April 2008, for the following purposes: pursuance of an offer or agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed Period which would or might require relevant Ordinary Business securities to be allotted after the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
To receive the Directors Report and accounts for the year ended 31st December 2007.
To consider and if thought t pass the following Special Resolution: 2.
To declare a final dividend of 31.95p per Ordinary Share in the THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally capital of the Company.
authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more market 3.
To re-elect Mr. W. W. Murray as a Director.
purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act on The London Stock Exchange of Ordinary Shares of 50p each in 4.
To re-elect Mr. D. D. S. Robertson as a Director.
the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares upon and subject to the following conditions: 5.
To re-elect Mr. D. H. Richardson as a Director.
i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares hereby 6.
To re-appoint Mr. J. L. Tuckey as a Director.
authorised to be purchased is 6.846 million shares representing 15% of the Companys issued share capital : 7.
To receive and consider the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2007. ii the minimum price which may be paid by the Company for each Ordinary Share is 50 pence exclusive of any tax and expenses : 8.
To ratify the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree iii the maximum price exclusive of any tax and expenses which their remuneration.
may be paid by the Company for an Ordinary Share is an amount not more than 5% above the average of the middle Special Business market values for an Ordinary Share taken from The London 9.
To consider and if thought t to pass the following Ordinary Resolution: Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is THAT for the purposes of Article 5 of the Articles of Association of purchased: the Company, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to iv unless previously revoked or varied the authority hereby allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the conferred shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.2m Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or the Section 80 Amount during the period expiring on the date of the on 28th July 2009, whichever shall be the earlier: next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution, or on 28th July 2009 whichever is the earlier, the v the Company may enter into a contract or contracts for the Prescribed Period and at any time after that pursuant to any offer purchase of Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby or agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed Period conferred before the expiry of this authority which would or might which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
and may make a purchase or purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts notwithstanding 10.
To consider and if thought t pass the following Special Resolution: such expiry: and THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, for the purposes vi any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or if the of Article 5 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors so determine and subject to the provision of the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the Regulations 2003 and any applicable regulations of the United meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the Kingdom Listing Authority, to be held as Treasury Shares.
authority conferred by Resolution 9 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that By order of the Board this power shall be limited: Morag McNeill i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a Rights Group Company Secretary Issue as dened in Article 5 : and 1 Prince of Wales Dock Leith ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i Edinburgh EH6 7DX above of equity securities and or the transfer of shares out of Treasury following purchase pursuant to Resolution 11 vi 1st April 2008 Copies of the service contracts between the Company and the Executive Directors and of the letters of appointment between the Company and the Non-Executive Directors will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company on any weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays, during normal business hours until 28th April 2008.
They will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 10.45am until the meeting ends.
The register of Directors shareholdings will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting, from the beginning of the meeting until it ends.
Proxies A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more persons as his proxy to attend, speak and vote on his behalf at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
Completion of a Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person if he so wishes.
In order to be valid, a Form of Proxy must be lodged at the ofces of the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To appoint more than one proxy, contact the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited at the address stated above.
Corporate Representatives In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i If a corporate member has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as his corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all other corporate representatives for that meeting at the meeting, then, on a poll, those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions.
ii If more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as his corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter to appoint the Chairman as a corporate representative as described in i above.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate Head Ofce Forth Ports PLC, 1 Prince of Wales Dock, Edinburgh EH6 7DX Telephone 0131 555 8700 Facsimile 0131 553 7462 www.
co. uk This report was printed on Greencoat 80 Velvet which contains 80% post consumer waste and Think Bright which is made from 100% ECF pulp.
Both papers are certied as FSC mixed sources grades.
