Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Statement of compliance with IFRSs The consolidated financial statements of Foseco plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 4 April 2008.
Foseco plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation Acquisition of Foseco Jersey Limited On 12 May 2005, Foseco plc acquired the entire issued share capital of Foseco Jersey Limited for a consideration of 194.6 million, of which 25.6 million was settled in cash and 169 million was settled in shares of Foseco plc.
"From a legal perspective, Foseco plc acquired Foseco Jersey Limited, but as Foseco Jersey Limited had the power to govern the financial and operating activities of its legal parent at the date of the acquisition, IFRS 3 states that the transaction must be accounted for as a ""reverse acquisition"", i. e. Foseco Jersey Limited is treated as if it had acquired Foseco plc, rather than vice versa."
This accounting treatment has a number of consequences for the presentation of the Group's results: the balance sheet shows the share capital of Foseco Jersey Limited rather than the capital issued by Foseco plc: goodwill on acquisition is calculated by reference to the net assets of Foseco plc which are deemed to be acquired by Foseco Jersey Limited, rather than the consideration paid by Foseco plc and Foseco Jersey Limited group's net assets: Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Foseco plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another party.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which Foseco plc has control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Minority interests represent the interests in Foseco India Limited, Foseco Thailand Limited and Foseco Golden Gate Company Limited not held by the Group.
18 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of Foseco plc is sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
The functional currency of overseas subsidiaries is shown in note 28.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency of Foseco plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, and their income statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group elected to set the currency translation reserve to zero on transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004. Business combinations and goodwill The Group elected not to restate business combinations which occurred prior to the date of transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004. Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the cash paid and the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired ie.
discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where the Group does not acquire 100% ownership of an acquired company, the interest of the minority shareholders is stated initially at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority in excess of the initial minority interest are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the majority interest until the minoritys share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirer's interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
19 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at business segment level or statutory company level.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
When there is a disposal of a cash-generating unit, goodwill relating to that operation is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the operation retained.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalised value of finance leases is also included within property, plant and equipment.
For property, the deemed cost as at the date of transition to IFRS was the fair value at the date of the last valuation of these assets less accumulated depreciation until the date of transition.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold Land - nil: Freehold buildings and long - over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years: leasehold property Short leasehold property - over the term of the lease: Plant and other equipment - 4% to 33 1 3%.
The estimated useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives and residual values are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Exchanges of assets are measured at the fair value of the asset given up unless the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
20 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Computer software, intellectual property rights and other intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, cost will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these assets have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Computer software, intellectual property rights and other intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful lives on a straight-line basis.
Estimated useful life is the shorter of legal duration and economic useful life.
Useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there are indications that an asset may be impaired.
If such indications exist or annual impairment testing for an asset is required by IFRSs, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, and is determined for an individual asset unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to the recoverable amount.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in the expense categories consistent with the function of the asset.
Research and development costs Research and development costs are expensed as they are incurred, except for certain development costs, which are capitalised when it is probable that a development project will generate future economic benefits and certain criteria, including commercial and technical feasibility, have been met.
Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed as incurred.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows: Raw materials purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis: Finished goods and cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of work-in-progress manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
21 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for doubtful debts.
An allowance is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated recoverable amount.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the elements defined above, less outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income or expense respectively.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the inception of the leases at the fair value of the leased assets or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance policy, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where discounting is used in the initial measurement of a provision, the subsequent increase in provision due to unwinding of that discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Environmental liabilities Environmental expenditure that relates to current or future revenues is expensed or capitalised as appropriate.
Expenditure relating to an existing condition caused by past operations and not contributing to current or future earnings, is expensed.
Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
22 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Employee benefits Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
The accounting policy for pensions and other post-retirement benefits is described below.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes and defined contribution schemes, which require contributions to be made to administered funds separate from the Group.
For defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit schemes, scheme assets are measured at fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of the same currency and term as the scheme liabilities.
The service cost for the year of providing pension and other post-retirement benefits to employees is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making improvements to pension and other postretirement benefits is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the period during which the increase in benefits vests.
To the extent that the improvement in benefits vest immediately, the cost is recognised immediately.
These costs are recognised as an expense.
A charge is recognised arising from the unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities.
A credit representing the expected return on the scheme assets is recognised, based on the fair value of the scheme assets and expected rates of return at the beginning of the year.
The charge for the unwinding of the discount, net of the credit for the expected return on scheme assets, is included within total finance costs for the year.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between the expected return and the actual return on scheme assets: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the scheme liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of scheme liabilities from one period to the next.
Actuarial gains and losses, and tax thereon, are recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they occur.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions payable for the year are charged to the income statement as an operating expense.
Tax Tax expense represents the sum of tax payable in respect of the current period and deferred tax.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is not tax deductible, or on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
23 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised: except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the tax authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables, which are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from or payable to tax authorities is included within receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Share-based payment transactions Certain employees of the Group, including senior executives, receive an element of remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date on which they are awarded.
Details of the fair value calculation are given in note 22.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Foseco plc market conditions, if applicable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
24 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the terms of the original awards continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of modification.
No reduction is recognised if the difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Compensation up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, and any excess over fair value is treated as an expense in the income statement.
Issued capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
Own shares held Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Interest Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues to the net carrying amount of the financial asset using the effective interest method, that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument.
Dividends Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders' right to receive the payment is established.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised as finance costs in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
25 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets The Groups financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at the end of each financial year.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to acquire the asset, as determined in accordance with normal market practice.
The Group has financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
These assets are derivative financial assets, namely interest rate swaps, which, though effective hedges on initial recognition, have subsequently been determined to be ineffective.
The Group has financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets, and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale financial assets.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognised in administration costs.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
An allowance account is used to reduce the carrying amount of trade receivables impaired by credit losses.
Impairment allowances are made when there is evidence that the Group will be unable to collect the whole invoiced amounts on normal trading terms.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
26 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
The documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment: or cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or to a highly probable forecast transaction.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value, and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
For hedged items carried at amortised cost, the adjustment is amortised through the income statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
When an unrecognised firm commitment is designate as a hedged item, this gives rise to an asset or liability in the balance sheet, representing the cumulative change in the fair value of the firm commitment attributable to the hedged risk.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or if the Group revokes the designation.
Cash flow hedges For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires, is sold, is terminated, is exercised without replacement or rollover, or has its designation as a hedge revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
27 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial instruments The derecognition of a financial instrument takes place when the Group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, which is normally the case when the instrument is sold, or all the cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed through to an independent third party.
Use of accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements are used in the following principal areas: Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment at least on an annual basis by estimating the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
To estimate value in use, the Group forecasts the future cash flows of its cash-generating units and chooses a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Details of the underlying assumptions within the forecasts are given in note 14.
Property, plant and equipment The depreciation rates applied to property, plant and equipment are derived by estimating both the useful lives and the residual values of individual assets.
The useful lives of the Groups assets are determined by management on acquisition, based upon historical experience with similar assets and anticipation of future events such as technological change which might impact upon asset lives.
Subsequently, asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually for appropriateness.
Changes in asset lives or residual values would alter the depreciation charge in the income statement.
Inventories Allowance is made for slow-moving, obsolete or damaged inventory based on managements estimates of the losses to be incurred where the cost of an item of inventory exceeds the likely sale proceeds net of the cost of disposal.
Trade receivables Allowances made for bad and doubtful debts reflect managements estimates of the losses likely to arise from the failure or inability of customers to make payment for goods and services provided by the Group.
The estimates are based upon the age of the debts, customer credit worthiness, and the Groups historical experience of such losses.
Provisions Provisions are liabilities that are uncertain either as to timing or amount.
Where the amount of a provision is uncertain, for example in respect of environmental liabilities or legal disputes, management estimates the cost based on professional external advice as to the likely outcome.
If the timing of the settlement of a material liability is uncertain, management selects a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of the liability.
Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities could be different from those estimated.
Pensions Pension costs within the income statement and pension obligations as stated in the balance sheet are both dependent upon assumptions chosen by management.
Advice is taken from external actuaries as to the appropriate ranges within which suitable assumptions lie.
These assumptions are reconsidered annually and almost invariably generate actuarial adjustments that are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense.
28 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Tax The Groups tax charge in the income statement and tax position in the balance sheet are the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Calculation of the current tax position involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment is uncertain and which will be resolved at some future date.
Management makes judgements as to the likely impact and outcome of uncertain or disputed tax treatments.
Deferred tax generally recognises the future reversal of all temporary timing differences, but management exercises judgement in respect of deferred tax assets as to the likely recoverability against future taxable profits.
As this judgement involves assessment of the future trading prospects of individual statutory entities, the actual outcome may vary from that anticipated.
Share-based payment The cost of share-based incentive schemes is determined by estimating both the fair value of the shares at the date of the award and the likelihood that financial conditions applied to the award will be met.
Estimation of the fair value involves the use of assumptions as to the share price volatility of the Company and of the constituents of the benchmark comparator group.
Based upon the advice of external valuers, management chooses appropriate assumptions for each award, and those assumptions remain unchanged throughout the vesting period of the award.
Estimation of the likelihood of achieving the financial targets applied to the awards depends upon managements forecasts of the future performance of the Group and upon progress to date towards the targets.
This estimate is updated at least annually.
Amendments to standards and new interpretations applied for 2007 reporting Where applicable, the following amendments to standards and new interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have been applied by the Group in the 2007 financial statements: Effective date, periods commencing International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 Adoption of these standards has increased substantially the disclosures in the financial statements but has not affect the underlying accounting.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 The above interpretation has not had any impact on the Groups financial statements.
