The useful lives of these rights are estimated to be 20 years.
Computer software is amortised over its estimated useful economic live of between three and five years.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged primarily within administration expenses in the income statement.
43 Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to two individual cashgenerating units, which are also reportable segments, for impairment testing as follows: - Foundry cash-generating unit: and - Steel cash-generating unit.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts for both the Foundry and ongoing Steel units have been determined on a value in use basis, using cash flow projections from the financial budget and forecasts.
Budgets and forecasts for a three year period were prepared and approved by both unit and Group management, as part of the Group's annual budgeting process.
For periods beyond the three year forecast, cash flows were extrapolated using general growth rates including an annual turnover growth rate of 5% 2006: 5% which is consistent with the underlying long term average growth rate for both Foundry and Steel.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13% 2006: 15% was applied to the cash flow projections.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the cash-generating units: FoundrySteel Total mm m At 31 December 2006 15.7 3.2 18.9 At 31 December 2007 15.7 3.2 18.9 Key assumptions used in value in use calculation of Foundry and Steel units at 31 December 2007 The calculation of value in use for both the Foundry and Steel units is most sensitive to the following assumptions: - Turnover growth rates: - Gross margins: - Discount rates: and - Long term growth rates used in extrapolating cash flows beyond the three year budget and forecast periods.
Turnover growth rates for the three year period have been budgeted and forecast on a territory by territory basis, taking into account local economic factors and market share assumptions.
Gross margins for the three year period have been budgeted and forecast on a territory by territory basis, taking into account estimates of anticipated efficiency improvements, inflationary factors including raw material price assumptions, sales price and mix assumptions, and the effects of increasing turnover on overhead recovery rates.
Discount rates reflect management's estimate of the cost of capital in each business, adjusted to be on a pre-tax basis.
Long term growth rate assumptions for the period beyond the three year budget and forecast periods are based on the growth rates previously experienced, including an annual turnover growth rate of 5% 2005: 5% for both the Foundry and ongoing Steel units.
