Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 Related party transactions continued During the period the Group entered into transactions in the ordinary course of business with related parties.
Transactions entered into and balances outstanding at each year-end are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2006 2007 2006 m m Amounts due to joint ventures note a 0.8 0.8 a The joint venture is currently in liquidation.
The loan will be repaid by the Group at the end of the liquidation process, and the Group will then receive an approximately equal amount by way of final dividend.
Terms and conditions of related parties: Sales to and purchases from related parties are made priced as arm's length transactions and generally are settled on 30 day terms.
Funding balances with related parties are interest bearing at variable rates based on LIBOR plus a margin.
The Group provides guarantees to third parties for certain borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Full details of the compensation of key management personnel are given in the audited part of the Directors' Remuneration Report.
29 Events after the balance sheet date On 11 October 2007, Cookson Group plc made an offer to purchase the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Foseco plc.
On 10 March 2008, Foseco plc shareholders approved the Scheme of Arrangement at a Court Meeting, and approved the proposed takeover of the Company by Cookson Group plc at an extraordinary general meeting.
On 11 March 2008, Cookson Group plc shareholders also approved the proposed takeover.
The takeover of Foseco plc by Cookson Group plc was completed on 4 April 2008, and as a consequence the Group was fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange.
Thereafter, the accounting impacts described in notes 4, 8, 19, 22 and 27 as being contingent upon the completion of the deal became certain.
On 10 April 2008, after the completion of the takeover, Cookson Group plc intends to complete the sale of Foseco's Carbon Bonded Ceramics business to companies owned by RHI AG.
On 4 April 2008, the ultimate parent undertaking of the Group became Cookson Group plc, registered in the United Kingdom at 165 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2AE.
