Foseco plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 Parent undertaking The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention.
These accounts present information about the Company as an individual undertaking, under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and not about its group.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Investments Shares in Group Undertakings acquired on 12 May 2005 are stated individually at nominal value as permitted under merger accounting, less any provision for diminution in value.
All other fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Investment income Investment income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Tax Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Own shares held When either the Company or the Foseco Employee Benefit Trust purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
As Foseco plc is the sponsor of the Foseco Employee Benefit Trust, the Trust's balance sheet has been included within Foseco plc's balance sheet in these financial statements.
