Foseco plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 Parent undertaking The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention.
These accounts present information about the Company as an individual undertaking, under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and not about its group.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Investments Shares in Group Undertakings acquired on 12 May 2005 are stated individually at nominal value as permitted under merger accounting, less any provision for diminution in value.
All other fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Investment income Investment income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Tax Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Own shares held When either the Company or the Foseco Employee Benefit Trust purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
As Foseco plc is the sponsor of the Foseco Employee Benefit Trust, the Trust's balance sheet has been included within Foseco plc's balance sheet in these financial statements.
77 Foseco plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Share-based payment transactions Certain employees including senior executives of the Group receive an element of remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date of which they are granted.
Further details of the fair value calculations are given in note 18.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Foseco plc market conditions, if applicable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original awards term continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of modification.
No reduction is recognised if the difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Foreign currency Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transactions.
All exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income or expense respectively.
Going concern basis The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
