Foseco plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Statement of compliance with IFRSs The consolidated financial statements of Foseco plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 4 April 2008.
Foseco plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation Acquisition of Foseco Jersey Limited On 12 May 2005, Foseco plc acquired the entire issued share capital of Foseco Jersey Limited for a consideration of 194.6 million, of which 25.6 million was settled in cash and 169 million was settled in shares of Foseco plc.
"From a legal perspective, Foseco plc acquired Foseco Jersey Limited, but as Foseco Jersey Limited had the power to govern the financial and operating activities of its legal parent at the date of the acquisition, IFRS 3 states that the transaction must be accounted for as a ""reverse acquisition"", i. e. Foseco Jersey Limited is treated as if it had acquired Foseco plc, rather than vice versa."
This accounting treatment has a number of consequences for the presentation of the Group's results: the balance sheet shows the share capital of Foseco Jersey Limited rather than the capital issued by Foseco plc: goodwill on acquisition is calculated by reference to the net assets of Foseco plc which are deemed to be acquired by Foseco Jersey Limited, rather than the consideration paid by Foseco plc and Foseco Jersey Limited group's net assets: Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Foseco plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another party.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which Foseco plc has control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Minority interests represent the interests in Foseco India Limited, Foseco Thailand Limited and Foseco Golden Gate Company Limited not held by the Group.
