59 3 Significant accounting policies continued t Dividends Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are declared.
Dividends proposed but not declared are not recognised but are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
u Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations In the year ended 31 December 2007, the group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, both of which were effective from 1 January 2007.
The effect of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the groups financial instruments and management of capital.
Four interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC were effective for the current year.
These were: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these interpretations has not resulted in changes to the groups accounting policies and has not had a material impact on amounts reported for the current or prior years.
At the year end, the following were in issue, endorsed but not yet effective: IFRS 8 Operating Segments which was issued in November 2006 and will apply to the group from 1 January 2009.
This standard supersedes IAS 14 Segment Reporting and will require the group to adopt the management approach to reporting on the financial performance of its operating segments: and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions which was issued in November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
This interpretation requires a share-based payment arrangement in which the group receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity-instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction.
At the year end, the following were in issue, but were not yet endorsed or effective: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements: IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes: and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRIC 14, if endorsed, may impact on the groups valuation of defined retirement benefit obligations.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of the other standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material financial impact on the financial statements of the group.
4 Accounting estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, with respect to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements, estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, including current and expected economic conditions, and in some cases, actuarial techniques.
Although these judgements, estimates and associated assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of current events and circumstances, the actual results may differ.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
