98 Notes to the parent company financial statements a Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
Exemptions As permitted by section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements.
The cash flows of the company are included within its consolidated financial statements.
The company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party transactions with other members of the group.
The consolidated financial statements of the group contain financial instrument disclosures and comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently the company has taken advantage of certain exemptions in FRS 29 from the requirement to present separate financial instrument disclosures for the company.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected economic life.
Short leasehold property under 50 years is depreciated over the life of the lease.
Equipment and vehicles are depreciated over periods up to a maximum of ten years.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments, which comprise investments in subsidiary undertakings, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
External debtors Debtors do not carry interest and are stated initially at their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the profit and loss account on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
External creditors Creditors are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at their fair value.
Amounts owed to from subsidiary undertakings Amounts owed to from subsidiary undertakings bear interest at prevailing market rates.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
