100 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued a Significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments The company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of share-based payments is determined at the date of grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the companys estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, save for changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions.
The fair value of share-based payments granted in the form of options is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes valuation technique, adjusted for future dividend receipts and for any market-related performance conditions.
The company grants share options over its own shares to the employees of subsidiary companies.
The company does not receive goods or services in exchange for these options.
These are accounted for as a written call option on the entitys own shares and do not result in an accounting entry upon grant.
When the share options are subsequently exercised the resulting entries are either to increase share capital and share premium for new shares issued or to record a reduction in the treasury shares owned by the employee benefit trust.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are declared.
Dividends proposed but not declared are not recognised but are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Financial guarantees The company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the group.
The company treats such contracts as a contingent liability unless and until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Own shares held by employee benefit trust Transactions of the company-sponsored employee benefit trust are included in the parent company financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the company are debited directly to equity.
b Tangible fixed assets Land and Equipment buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 3.0 2.4 5.4 Additions at cost 1.5 1.5 Disposals 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2007 3.0 3.3 6.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2007 0.8 0.7 1.5 Charge for the year 0.2 0.3 0.5 At 31 December 2007 1.0 1.0 2.0 Net book value At 31 December 2007 2.0 2.3 4.3 At 31 December 2006 2.2 1.7 3.9 The net book value of land and buildings comprises short leasehold buildings under 50 years.
