52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information A resolution was passed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, held on 31 May 2007, to change the companys name from Group 4 Securicor plc to G4S plc.
G4S plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities its subsidiaries controlled by the company collectively comprising the group and the groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities made up to 31 December each year.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 27.
The group operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional currencies, the most significant being the euro, the US dollar and sterling.
The groups financial statements are presented in sterling, as the groups primary listing is in the UK.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
The address of the registered office is given on page 113.
2 Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 97 to 105.
3 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting polices which have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment, are discussed in note 4.
The comparative income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 has been re-presented for operations qualifying as discontinued during the current year.
Revenue from continuing operations has been reduced by 316.8m and PBT has been reduced by 0.5m compared to the figures published previously.
Further details of discontinued operations are presented within note 7.
In addition, the comparative balance sheet as at 31 December 2006 has been restated to reflect the completion during 2007 of the initial accounting in respect of acquisitions made during 2006.
Adjustments made to the provisional calculation of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired amount to 4.7m, with an equivalent increase in the reported value of goodwill.
The impact of these adjustments on the net assets acquired is presented in note 17. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control is achieved where the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities, determined either by the groups ownership percentage, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition includes the present value of consideration payable in respect of put options held by minority shareholders.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the carrying value of the minority interest are allocated against the interest of the parent, except to the extent that the minority has both a binding obligation and the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, in that strategic financial and operating decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties.
The groups interest in joint ventures is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method, whereby the groups share of the results and assets and liabilities of a jointly-controlled entity is combined line by line with similar items in the groups consolidated financial statements.
