60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Accounting estimates continued The judgements, estimates and assumptions which are of most significance to the group are detailed below: Valuation of acquired businesses The initial accounting for an acquisition involves identifying and determining the fair values to be assigned to identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as well as the acquisition cost.
In some instances, this initial accounting can only be determined provisionally by the end of the period in which the acquisition is effected because the fair values and or the cost is not known with full certainty.
In such an event, the initial accounting can be completed using provisional values with any adjustments to those provisional values being completed within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Additionally, in determining the fair value of acquisition-related intangible assets, in the absence of market prices for similar assets, valuation techniques are applied.
These techniques use a variety of estimates including projected future results and expected future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost of capital.
Full details of the fair values of assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are presented in note 17.
Assessment of the recoverable amounts in respect of assets tested for impairment The group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
The impairment analysis for such assets is principally based upon discounted estimated future cash flows from the use and eventual disposal of the assets.
Such an analysis includes an estimation of the future anticipated results and cash flows, annual growth rates and the appropriate discount rates.
The full methodology and results of the groups impairment testing is presented in note 19.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations The valuation of defined retirement benefit schemes is arrived at using the advice of qualified independent actuaries who use the projected unit credit method for determining the groups obligations.
This methodology requires the use of a variety of assumptions and estimates, including the appropriate discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, mortality assumptions, future service and earnings increases of employees and inflation.
Full details of the groups retirement benefit obligations, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the calculations to the key assumptions are presented in note 34.
5 Revenue An analysis of the groups revenue is as follows: 2007 2006 Notes m m Continuing operations Sale of goods 105.3 93.7 Rendering of services 4,288.7 3,886.9 Revenue from construction contracts 96.4 56.2 Revenue from continuing operations as presented in the consolidated income statement 6 4,490.4 4,036.8 Discontinued operations Sale of goods 9.3 7.1 Rendering of services 259.2 373.6 Revenue from construction contracts 16.4 12.5 Revenue from discontinued operations 6, 7 284.9 393.2 Other operating income Interest income 15.1 12.3 Net gain in fair value of loan note derivative financial instruments and hedged items 0.2 Expected return on defined retirement benefit scheme assets 77.3 67.2 Total other operating income 92.6 79.5
