98 Notes to the parent company financial statements a Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
Exemptions As permitted by section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements.
The cash flows of the company are included within its consolidated financial statements.
The company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party transactions with other members of the group.
The consolidated financial statements of the group contain financial instrument disclosures and comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently the company has taken advantage of certain exemptions in FRS 29 from the requirement to present separate financial instrument disclosures for the company.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected economic life.
Short leasehold property under 50 years is depreciated over the life of the lease.
Equipment and vehicles are depreciated over periods up to a maximum of ten years.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments, which comprise investments in subsidiary undertakings, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
External debtors Debtors do not carry interest and are stated initially at their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the profit and loss account on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
External creditors Creditors are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at their fair value.
Amounts owed to from subsidiary undertakings Amounts owed to from subsidiary undertakings bear interest at prevailing market rates.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
99 a Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting In accordance with its treasury policy, the company only holds or issues derivative financial instruments to manage the groups exposure to financial risk, not for trading purposes.
Such financial risk includes the interest risk on the groups variable-rate borrowings, the fair value risk on the groups fixed-rate borrowings, and foreign exchange risk on transactions, on the translation of the groups results and on the translation of the groups net assets measured in foreign currencies, to the extent that these are not matched by foreign currency borrowings.
The company manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, fixed rate agreements, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet as financial assets or liabilities at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account, unless they qualify for hedge accounting.
Where derivatives do qualify for hedge accounting, the treatment of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below: Fair value hedge The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Cash flow hedge The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the profit and loss account when the hedged cash flow impacts the profit and loss account.
The ineffective portion of the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are included as tangible fixed assets at their capital value and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.
The capital element of future rentals is included within creditors and finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease.
Annual rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Foreign currencies The financial statements of the company are presented in sterling, its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost denominated in other currencies are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not in that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Pensions The company participates in multi-employer pension schemes in the UK, which provide benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The company is unable to identify its share of the schemes assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis.
In accordance with FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the company treats the schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes and recognises charges as and when contributions are due to the scheme.
Details of the schemes are included in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
