52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information A resolution was passed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, held on 31 May 2007, to change the companys name from Group 4 Securicor plc to G4S plc.
G4S plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities its subsidiaries controlled by the company collectively comprising the group and the groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities made up to 31 December each year.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 27.
The group operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional currencies, the most significant being the euro, the US dollar and sterling.
The groups financial statements are presented in sterling, as the groups primary listing is in the UK.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
The address of the registered office is given on page 113.
2 Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 97 to 105.
3 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting polices which have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment, are discussed in note 4.
The comparative income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 has been re-presented for operations qualifying as discontinued during the current year.
Revenue from continuing operations has been reduced by 316.8m and PBT has been reduced by 0.5m compared to the figures published previously.
Further details of discontinued operations are presented within note 7.
In addition, the comparative balance sheet as at 31 December 2006 has been restated to reflect the completion during 2007 of the initial accounting in respect of acquisitions made during 2006.
Adjustments made to the provisional calculation of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired amount to 4.7m, with an equivalent increase in the reported value of goodwill.
The impact of these adjustments on the net assets acquired is presented in note 17. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control is achieved where the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities, determined either by the groups ownership percentage, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition includes the present value of consideration payable in respect of put options held by minority shareholders.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the carrying value of the minority interest are allocated against the interest of the parent, except to the extent that the minority has both a binding obligation and the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, in that strategic financial and operating decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties.
The groups interest in joint ventures is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method, whereby the groups share of the results and assets and liabilities of a jointly-controlled entity is combined line by line with similar items in the groups consolidated financial statements.
53 3 Significant accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation continued Associates An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the groups consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associates, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the groups interest in those associates are not recognised.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where a group company transacts with a joint venture or associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant joint venture or associate.
c Foreign currencies The financial statements of each of the groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost denominated in other currencies are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity, together with exchange differences arising on monetary items that are in substance a part of the groups net investment in foreign operations and on borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments where and to the extent that the hedges are deemed to be effective.
All such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
In order to hedge its translation exposure to certain foreign currencies in which more than 1% of the groups consolidated net operating assets are denominated, the group utilises derivative financial instruments see note 3 d for details of the groups accounting policies in respect of such instruments.
d Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting In accordance with its treasury policy, the group only holds or issues derivative financial instruments to manage the groups exposure to financial risk, not for trading purposes.
Such financial risk includes the interest risk on the groups variable-rate borrowings, the fair value risk on the groups fixed-rate borrowings, and foreign exchange risk on transactions, on the translation of the groups results and on the translation of the groups net assets measured in foreign currencies, to the extent that these are not matched by foreign currency borrowings.
The group manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, fixed rate agreements, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet as financial assets or liabilities at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless they qualify for hedge accounting.
Where derivatives do qualify for hedge accounting, the treatment of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below.
Fair value hedge The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the income statement when the hedged cash flow impacts the income statement.
The ineffective portion of the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued d Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued Net investment hedge The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the income statement when the hedged net investment impacts the income statement.
e Intangible assets Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by the application of the purchase method.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an additional interest from a minority in a subsidiary represents the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the net assets acquired at the date of exchange.
Goodwill is stated at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses, and is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included within the net investment in associates.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Acquisition-related intangible assets Intangible assets on acquisitions that are either separable or arising from contractual rights are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Such acquisition-related intangible assets include trademarks, technology, customer contracts and customer relationships.
The fair value of acquisition-related intangible assets is determined by reference to market prices of similar assets, where such information is available, or by the use of appropriate valuation techniques, including the royalty relief method and the excess earnings method.
Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortised by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life.
The directors review acquisition-related intangible assets on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Trademarks up to a maximum of five years Customer contracts and customer relationships up to a maximum of ten years Technology up to a maximum of five years Other intangible assets development expenditure Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the group.
Such expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only if the following can be demonstrated: the expenditure creates an identifiable asset, its cost can be measured reliably, it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits, it is technically and commercially feasible and the group has sufficient resources to complete development.
In all other instances, the cost of such expenditure is taken directly to the income statement.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is expected to be revenue-producing, up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets software Computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset if such expenditure both internally generated and externally purchased creates an identifiable asset, if its cost can be measured reliably and if it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits.
Capitalised computer software is stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation is charged on software so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives up to a maximum of five years.
55 3 Significant accounting policies continued f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings up to 2% Short leasehold buildings under 50 years over the life of the lease Equipment and motor vehicles 10% 33.3% Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful economic lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Where significant, the residual values and the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are re-assessed annually.
The directors review the carrying value of property, plant and equipment on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
g Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated initially at their fair value.
The carrying amount of trade receivables is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
The group provides for bad debts based upon an analysis of those that are past due in accordance with local conditions and past default experience.
PFI assets Under the terms of a Private Finance Initiative PFI or similar project, where the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset remain largely with the purchaser of the associated services, the groups interest in the asset is classified as a financial asset and included at its discounted value within trade and other receivables.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise investments in securities, which are classified as held-for-trading.
They are initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at fair value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
h Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads.
Cost is calculated using either the weighted average or the first-in-first-out method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued i Impairment The carrying value of the groups assets, apart from inventories and deferred tax assets, is reviewed on an ongoing basis for any indication of impairment, and if any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net selling price and its value in use, where value in use is assessed as the estimated future cash flows deriving from the asset discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset attaches.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is tested annually through assessing the carrying values of the cash generating units to which the goodwill attaches.
An impairment loss recognised in respect of a cash-generating unit is allocated first so as to reduce the carrying value of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit, and then to reduce the carrying value of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of any other asset, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.
The amount of the reversal is limited such that the assets carrying amount does not exceed that which would have been determined after depreciation and amortisation if no impairment loss had been recognised.
j Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Where repurchased shares are held by an employee benefit trust, they are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from equity.
k Employee benefits Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefits scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The discount rate used is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the groups obligations.
The expected finance income on assets and the finance cost on liabilities are recognised in the income statement as components of finance income and finance cost respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and presented outside the income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested.
Otherwise it is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Long-term service benefits The groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than retirement benefits represents the present value of the future benefit that employees have earned at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Share-based payments The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of share-based payments is determined at the date of grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, save for changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions.
The fair value of share-based payments granted in the form of options is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes valuation technique, adjusted for future dividend receipts and for any market-related performance conditions.
57 3 Significant accounting policies continued l Provisions Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Items within provisions include claims against the groups captive insurance businesses, costs of meeting lease requirements on unoccupied properties and restructuring provisions for the costs of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and where the appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are stated at the present value of the expected expenditure using an appropriate discount rate.
m Revenue recognition Revenue Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Revenue for manned security and cash services products and for recurring services in security systems products is recognised over the period in which the service is provided.
Revenue on security systems installations is recognised either on completion in respect of product sales, or in accordance with the stage of completion method in respect of construction contracts.
Construction contracts Where significant, security system installations with a contract duration in excess of one month are accounted for as construction contracts.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is likely that they will be agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that are deemed likely to be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses as they are incurred.
Where it is likely that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Construction contracts are recognised on the balance sheet at cost plus profit recognised to date, less provision for foreseeable losses and less progress billings.
Government grants Government grants in respect of items expensed in the income statement are recognised as deductions from the associated expenditure.
Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the lives of the related assets.
Interest Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
This is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividends Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
n Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement.
o Profit from operations Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of associates but before finance income and finance costs.
Exceptional items of particular significance, including restructuring costs, are included within profit from operations but are disclosed separately.
58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued p Income taxes Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill in a business combination or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
q Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the inception of the lease at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the groups net investment in the leases.
Lease payments made or received are apportioned between finance charges or income and the reduction of the lease liability or asset so as to produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability or asset.
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to income on a straight-line basis over the lease term, as are incentives to enter into operating leases.
r Segment reporting A segment is a significant component of the group which is subject to risks and rewards distinguishable from those of other segments either by the nature of the services provided business segment or by the economic environment in which it transacts business geographical segment.
s Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
The group must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of the groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
