have entered into a development agreement for a 500- home scheme to regenerate council estates in Plymouth with Westco Properties, part of Devon and Cornwall Housing Association.
11,200 Our schemes won a number of the major industry PLOTS IN LANDBANK awards in the year, including best affordable housing development in the British Homes awards, best sustainable development and best medium-sized housebuilder in the Housing Design awards as well uses.
The scope for private sector involvement is growing, as the Housing Corporation Award for our development with a need for master planning and project management at Bude in Cornwall.
as well as an ability to deliver a built environment.
Looking forward Strategy Our objective is for each of our businesses within There are few businesses with the spread and depth housebuilding to have an anchor regeneration scheme of resources required to deliver the range of services as part of its portfolio, and following the acquisitions required for these sites and, using the skill sets across its of both Morrison Construction and Linden Homes, both infrastructure, building and housebuilding divisions, Galliford of which added to the expertise and resources available Try aims to take an increasing share of this expanding to deliver regeneration and affordable housing projects, market.
We have the capability to remediate sites, put to further develop the Group as a leading-edge in any necessary infrastructure, carry out major building regeneration business.
works and develop homes and apartments for sale.
FINANCIAL RESULTS Performance Group results Group revenue for the year to 30 June 2007 was 1,410 million 2006: 852 million.
profit from operations Revenue including JVs 128.4 million stated before finance costs, exceptional items, profit from operations 6.1 million amortisation and share of joint venture interest and tax increased from 38.3 million to 62.8 million.
For the first time, the Group is reporting separately the revenue and profit from operations generated from the Construction profit from operations was up 67 per cent affordable housing and regeneration activities included to 22.1 million representing a margin of 2.1 per cent within the divisional results for construction and on revenue.
Within this the profit from operations of our housebuilding.
In the financial year to 30 June 2007, building division was 12.3 million, representing a margin these activities generated 6.1 million of profit from of 1.8 per cent and of our infrastructure division was operations on revenue including JVs up 90 per cent 9.8 million, representing a margin of 2.4 per cent.
received from concession management contributed to a significant reduction in our loss from operations in PPP Affordable housing contracting generated substantially Investments from 1.6 million to 1.1 million in the year higher revenues and profit during the year, and we despite, as planned, there being no sales of investments now have 25 long-term frameworks for affordable during the period.
Our housebuilding divisions profit from housing providers.
operations rose 52 per cent to 48.9 million representing a margin of 14.1 per cent.
Our acquisition of Linden Homes has increased our project base with English Partnerships and affordable For the first time we have extracted the revenue and housing providers across the South of England.
We are profit from operations resulting from our affordable currently working on seven English Partnership projects housing and regeneration activities from our construction and are shortlisted for a further two.
We secured the and housebuilding segments.
This demonstrates 430-home Turner Village scheme in Colchester, the 700- the potential of this element of our business, which home Epsom Cluster hospital scheme in Surrey in joint contributed a profit from operations of 6.1 million venture, and the 123-home scheme in Millbay, Plymouth.
on revenue including JVs up 90 per cent in the year We are carrying out a 440-home regeneration scheme in to 128.4 million.
Grimsby with Shoreline Housing Partnership, having been appointed preferred development partner in the year, and Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 11 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Acquisitions and goodwill Cash In March 2007 the Group raised 150.3 million by a The acquisition of Linden Homes was accompanied placing and open offer and acquired Linden Holdings plc, by an associated placing and open offer which resulted purchasing the shares for 108.5 million and assuming in the issue of 100,230,056 new ordinary shares in the 160.0 million of debt.
63.0 million of the consideration Company, raising 147 million, net of expenses.
63 million was paid in cash during the period with the remainder of the 108.5 million consideration for the shares in Linden secured by loan notes, of which 13.0 million is deferred Holdings plc has been satisfied.
The Group inherited and conditional on the securing of planning consents and 160 million of borrowings with the acquisition which the absence of any warranty claims.
The results stated were subsequently renanced by new bank facilities as above include the four months trading to 30 June 2007, explained below.
The Groups construction businesses contributing a profit from operations of 7.8 million on continued to generate excellent cash ows throughout revenue of 66.3 million.
The acquisition gave rise to the year and at the year end Group net debt was goodwill of 52.2 million and the recognition of intangible 99 million compared to net cash at the previous assets of 11.1 million, which represent the value of year end of 16 million.
the homes pre-sold and the Linden brand, and is being amortised in line with the expected profits generated.
Financing The brand is being amortised on a straight-line basis Net Group interest payable was 8.1 million over 10 years and will give rise to a profit and loss charge 2006: 5 million reecting average net borrowings of circa 1 million per annum.
Details of the transaction of approximately 32 million 2006: 26 million.
are given in detail in note 32 on page 66.
The net interest payable was covered eight times 2006: eight times by the profit before interest and tax.
Exceptional items The Group has recorded a net exceptional gain of The Group reorganised its banking facilities during 7.2 million.
An exceptional gain of 3.9 million resulted the year in response to the growth in investment in from property rationalisation, including a profit on the the housebuilding business and the need to renance sale and leaseback of Group premises net of the cost the borrowings acquired with the Linden acquisition.
of terminating operating leases on premises no On 8 February 2007, the Company entered into a facilities longer required.
agreement with HSBC Bank, the Bank of Scotland, Barclays Bank and the Royal Bank of Scotland for The Groups dened benefit pension scheme closed facilities totalling an aggregate maximum of 450 million.
to future service accrual during the year, resulting The facilities bear interest at oating rates, subject in an exceptional curtailment credit of 5.2 million.
to the interest rate swap arrangements referred The Group made a one-off payment of 10 million to below.
into the scheme following the closure, making a total of 13.1 million contributed to reducing the scheme Treasury management deficit in the year, and it has agreed to make further deficit The Group operates within polices and procedures reduction payments totalling 7 million annually.
At 30 June approved by the board.
The Groups financial instruments 2007 the deficit, net of deferred tax, was 18 million.
principally comprise bank borrowings, cash and liquid resources that arise directly from its operations.
It is, The exceptional gains were partly offset by 1.9 million and has been throughout the period under review, of costs, in line with our forecasts, arising from the the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments reorganisation of the Groups housebuilding structure shall be undertaken.
in the South East of England following the acquisition of Linden Homes.
The Group nances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The contracting Taxation operations of the Group generally generate cash and the The total tax charge of 16.6 million on the profit before planned growth of the contracting activities is budgeted taxation of 60.2 million represents an effective rate to be cash-generative.
The housebuilding operations, of 27.6 per cent compared to the standard rate of however, are cash-consumptive and the planned growth corporation tax of 30 per cent.
This reduced rate resulted in housebuilding will require additional borrowings in addition mainly from the reduction in the rate of deferred tax and to retained earnings to finance growth in the landbank and the reduction of capital gains tax arising from the utilisation associated work in progress.
On a daily basis throughout of brought forward losses and indexation allowances.
the year, the bank balances or borrowings in all the Groups Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 12 operating companies are aggregated into a total cash Under IAS19 Employee Benets the dened benefit or borrowing gure in order that the Group can obtain deficit of the Groups pension schemes was calculated the most advantageous interest rate.
as at 30 June 2007 by an independent qualied actuary and the gross deficit recognised on the balance sheet is All material activities of the Group take place within the 25 million, which has an overall impact, net of deferred UK and consequently there is little direct exchange risk tax, of 18 million.
Further detail on pensions is given other than payments to overseas suppliers who require in note 33 on page 67. settlement in their currency.
If there is any material foreign exchange exposure, the Groups policy is to enter into RISK MANAGEMENT forward foreign currency contracts.
The Group has no The board is committed to identifying, evaluating and material currency exposure at 30 June 2007. managing the significant risks facing the Group and has a developed set of processes and procedures that The main risk arising from the Groups financial instruments enable it to do so.
They are designed to be embedded is interest rate risk and this is reviewed by the board on within our management structure so that they are a regular basis.
The Group policy is to accept a degree followed as part of our normal operating procedures.
of interest rate risk as long as the effect of various changes in rates remains within prescribed ranges.
Following the The board has an established register detailing the entering into of the new facilities agreement as explained strategic, financial and operational risks potentially affecting above, the Group entered into a swap agreement which the Groups businesses and relating them to the Groups has the effect that up to 125 million of borrowings will objectives.
These include economic factors and market be xed at various rates for a period of five years.
conditions, the effect of competitor activities, gearing, regulation and project risk.
Each risk is rated based Further information on the Groups financial instruments on its likelihood and its potential impact on the Group is disclosed in note 25 on page 60. should it materialise.
This is then related to how the risk is managed, the responsibility for management and how Pension costs achieving the objective is monitored.
The most recent three-yearly valuation of the Groups main Final Salary Pension Scheme was carried out The following principal risks have been identied that as at 1 July 2006 by the Scheme actuary.
The valuation may have an impact on the Group.
showed that on an ongoing basis the deficit in the Scheme on the basis adopted by the Trustees, on the Market-related advice of the actuary, was 57 million.
The Group entered The market sectors in which the Group operates are into an agreement with the Trustees of the Scheme to close subject to the macro-economic conditions prevailing the Scheme to future service accrual on 31 March 2007 in the UK and Government policies.
Our housebuilding and agreed that all active members at that date would business will be affected by the state of the housebuilding receive a deferred pension entitlement in respect of their market as this impacts the ultimate price that purchasers service in the Scheme, with future service being covered are prepared to pay for their homes and the price and by the Groups money purchase arrangements.
As part terms under which the Company purchases land for of the agreement, the Group made a one-off cash development.
Public sector spending and the investment contribution totalling 10 million into the Scheme during programmes of the regulated infrastructure sectors the financial year, and has committed to making regular affect the markets for many of our construction activities.
deficit funding contributions going forward of 7 million The conditions for each market sector change over per annum.
There are therefore now no arrangements time and we react to this with a business planning remaining within the Group under which employees are process that sets the level of resources allocated.
accruing pension on a dened benefit basis.
We gather both published and informal intelligence on the markets, monitoring closely our order books Taking account of regular service contributions up to the and potential opportunities.
date of closure, total contributions to the dened benefit schemes amounted to 16.2 million 2006: 8.7 million.
The total cost of pensions, before the curtailment credit, explained under exceptional items, charged to the income statement in the financial year amounted to 7.2 million 2006: 6.3 million.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 13
