Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 115 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of GKN plc We have audited the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the balance sheet and the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on related notes.
These Company financial statements have been prepared Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as and disclosures in the Company financial statements and the part of the having been audited.
Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN plc Directors in the preparation of the Company financial statements, and of for the year ended 31 December 2007 on page 69. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Directors remuneration report and the Company financial statements in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Company Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 51. be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Company part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International be audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in Opinion accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other In our opinion: purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information Company financial statements.
given in the Directors report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
 LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Birmingham explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law 27 February 2008 regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider Notes: whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors Chief Executives statement, the business review, the corporate accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the governance statement and the other information listed on the contents financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
page of the annual report.
We consider the implications for our report if b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
