Glossary of terms Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of xed assets that delay the charging and payment of tax.
The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two Ordinary shares.
American Depositary Shares ADSs Ordinary shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies, at agreed exchange rates and dates.
fide ned bene t plan Pension plan with speci c employee bene ts, often called final salary scheme.
fide ned contribution plan Pension plan with speci c contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible xed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Pro t attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable.
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and or exercises control.
180 I GSK Annual Report 2007 INVESTOR INFORMATION Glossary of terms Q A www.
com Head Of ce and Registered Of ce GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792 Printed in the UK by The Midas Press.
The paper used in the production of this document is made from pulps harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings.
Answering the Questions that mAtter Annual Review 2007 Five Questions.
Question How are you adapting your business one model to succeed in the current healthcare environment?
Answer page 02 Question Why do you have a Consumer two Healthcare business?
Answer page 04 Question Share prices in the sector havent three performed well, what is the outlook for GSK?
Answer page 06 Question How is your R&D pipeline performing?
four A nswer page 08 Question What are you doing to improve healthcare five in the developing world?
Answer page 10 We have a challenging and inspiring Our mission: to improve the quality of mission human life by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Contents 01 Chairman and CEO summary 16 Performance overview 02 Strategy 18 Business operating review 04 Consumer Healthcare 20 The Board 06 Company performance 21 The Corporate Executive Team 08 Research and development 22 Summary Remuneration Report 10 Community partnerships 25 Corporate Governance 12 Three questions for Andrew Witty 26 Responsibility statement 13 Chairmans letter 27 Summary financial statements 14 Focus on our pipeline 28 Shareholder information Chairman and CEO Summary We consult our stakeholders in many ways.
From shareholders, patients, governments, non-government organisations, payers and employees we hear many different questions.
For this years Annual Review we have focused on five key questions that lie at the heart of our business.
It is natural that our stakeholders want to know how we are facing key pharmaceutical products are providing contributions to the challenges of the fast-changing healthcare environment, and growth.
The momentum of our late-stage pipeline continues to how we plan to convert our strategic direction into pro table enhance our business and is producing a signi cant renewal of our results, which should return value to our shareholders.
Our 2007 Annual Review aims to answer these questions and Seeing results from our investment in R&D demonstrate that our strategic focus on research and development, Last year, GSK received a record 10 product approvals and led which is delivering improved pipeline productivity, will enhance 10 product applications.
New products launched during 2007 were returns to shareholders over the long-term.
The success of our Tykerb, for breast cancer, Veramyst Avamys, for allergic rhinitis, Consumer Healthcare business and the strong performance of many Altabax Altargo for the treatment of skin infections and Cervarix key pharmaceutical and vaccine products in our current portfolio are our vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer.
also providing strong contributions to growth and helped us to deliver 2007 business performance earnings per share EPS growth We currently have 13 new product opportunities led with of 10 per cent at constant exchange rates CER : results that were at regulators and commenced nine new phase III clinical development the high end of our guidance.
There are at present 34 key assets in the phase III or registration stages.
We also continue to balance the needs of our shareholders with our commitment to improve healthcare in communities across the Leading the way world we feel this is not just the right thing to do: but the only Although the future remains challenging, GSK is determined to thing to do.
remain an industry leader across many fronts: not only through our pipeline progress but also through ef ciency initiatives and by Financial performance and outlook ful lling our responsibilities to communities worldwide.
Total sales were 22.7 billion, up two per cent, and business performance EPS was 99.1p, up 10 per cent from 2006.
The Board In October we announced a signi cant new 1.5 billion Operational declared a dividend for the year of 53p, up from 48p for 2006.
Excellence programme to improve operational ef ciency and productivity.
We expect this to deliver annual pre-tax savings of Pharmaceutical turnover was level at 19.2 billion, impacted by 700 million by 2010. generic competition in the US and a decrease of 22 per cent in Avandia sales globally.
Among other key products, sales of During 2007, our global community investment contributions Seretide Advair for asthma and COPD rose by 10 per cent to 3.5 continued to deliver a positive in uence on the lives of people billion while those for Lamictal, for epilepsy and bipolar disorder, worldwide and we are proud to play our part to the full.
increased by 18 per cent to 1.1 billion.
The vaccines business grew by 20 per cent to 2 billion.
Consumer Healthcare generated strong sales growth, up 14 per cent to almost 3.5 billion.
2007 also saw the launch of the largest share buy-back programme in our industry: share repurchases of 2.5 billion were made in 2007 under this programme and a further 6 billion are expected in 2008.
We expect to repurchase 12 billion of shares under this programme by mid -2009.
In May 2007, an article in the New England Journal of Medicine suggested that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier Avandia, our second largest product.
This was followed by intense Chairman Chief Executive Of cer media coverage and despite our efforts to explain the entirety of the data, which did not con rm this risk, sales of Avandia dropped signi cantly in the second half of 2007.
The decline in Avandia sales, together with increased generic competition in the US, will adversely impact our earnings in 2008 and we expect a mid-single digit percentage decline in business performance EPS, at CER.
Looking ahead we remain con dent in I t is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of business performance GSKs future.
Our fast-growing vaccines business, the resurgence of and constant exchange rates CER.
our Consumer Healthcare division and the strong performance of GSK Annual Review 2007 01 STRATEGY How are you adapting your business model to succeed in the Q current healthcare environment?
Diversity and balance We operate in a fast-changing market from both a regulatory and payer perspective.
Regulators are becoming increasingly risk conscious and payers more cost conscious.
It is imperative that pharmaceutical companies, including GSK, modernise and evolve to re ect these market changes.
As we move forward into this changing environment, we are well-positioned, relative to our peers.
Because we are a broad-based,  and well-balanced company encompassing Pharmaceuticals, vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
A Through the intellectual property system, we have a relatively short patent exclusivity for traditional small molecule chemical pharmaceuticals.
However, Biological Medicines, vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products generally have a signi cantly Summary longer product life cycle.
Our presence in all these sectors will continue to grow and enables us to better balance risk and Our markets are changing and we are evolving sustain growth.
rapidly to re ect the new environment.
We are Growing the pipeline well-positioned relative to our peers.
In recent years, our pipeline has expanded and owed more quickly than ever before.
Seven years ago we had relatively few A broad-based,  and wellproducts in our late-stage pipeline.
Today we have 157 projects balanced business.
in clinical development, of which 118 are NCEs or new vaccines: this includes 34 key assets in late stage development.
This is a signi cant transformation, driven largely by changes Innovative programmes to reduce expenditure we have made to both our research and development R&D and work more closely with customers.
We have radically changed the R&D infrastructure, breaking down the traditional big bureaucratic Positioned to take advantage of opportunities in pharma model into R&D Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery the growing healthcare economies.
At the same time, we are evolving and adapting our culture, helping our talented people to improve the quality of our science and management.
We will continue to ensure that we are creating new medicines targeted at unmet medical need, and we will focus on developing these medicines in a way that allows regulators to make a clear assessment about the relative risks and bene ts.
02 GSK Annual Review 2007 Reducing expenditure Cost remains a major issue for our customers because the demand for healthcare continues to increase, driven by ageing populations and rising expectations.
We are committed to working with governments to reduce total healthcare costs and to lowering our own expenditure so that we operate more ef ciently and pro tably in a lower priced environment enabling us to continue our investment in R&D.
At the same time, we are adopting a more exible and creative approach to product pricing.
We are alert to opportunities to share risk with customers as a means of demonstrating that we have great belief in our medicines and that we only expect to be rewarded when our medicines deliver the anticipated bene ts.
Our Operational Excellence programmes, which are an important part of our strategy, mean we are improving ef ciency year-onA personal perspective from year.
We are also working hard to lower the cost of developing products and have already outsourced some areas of our business to lower-cost countries.
We will continue to assess and capture other opportunities to reduce costs.
Seizing global opportunities Globalisation is an increasingly important factor in the business Mike Thompson Senior Vice President, European Commercial landscape.
In the past, we have derived most of our growth from Development, Pharmaceuticals the established economies of the US, Europe and Japan.
Countries such as Brazil, Russia, India and China often known as the BRIC markets have large populations.
They are increasingly able to Within the European pharmaceutical afford good quality healthcare, opening up signi cant new business, weve already dramatically markets which will be important future growth areas for GSK.
changed the way we work over the last Investing in our people three years to improve ef ciency and We will only reach our potential through the support and talent increase customer focus, particularly of highly motivated people.
Our ambition is to be the place where on payers.
great people apply their energy and passion to make a difference in the world.
Their skills and intellect are key components in the Weve seen a major evolution of our customer successful implementation of our strategy.
During 2007 we base, with payers now sharing equal importance continued to invest in recruiting and training the best scientists with clinicians.
Payers have different questions and other professionals.
and we need to make sure we offer the right answers.
Thats required a signi cant change to the way we work, including the transformation of the commercial team to meet the needs of both groups.
Furthermore, marketing campaign decisions that were previously devolved to each of the 44 European countries are now led by therapeutic Commercial Centres of Excellence.
Where in the past we would have had 44 different Seretide campaigns, we now have one across the whole of Europe.
Weve also been able to make cost savings by eliminating duplications that didnt add value.
For example, by moving to common IT systems weve saved over 20 million a year and the introduction of multi-lingual packs is reducing stock by around half on some of our products.
GSK Annual Review 2007 03 CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Why do you have a Consumer Healthcare business?
Q A healthy performance Consumer Healthcare is an important business to us.
Not only does it provide an excellent balance with our Pharmaceuticals operation, it is also a thriving business in its own right which is delivering a strong performance for shareholders.
Consumer Healthcare has shown signi cant acceleration in top line performance, with sales growth up 14 per cent in 2007.
It has a powerful portfolio that includes Lucozade, Sensodyne, Panadol, Horlicks and Aquafresh, a brand which has bene ted from investment and the launch of new brand extensions.
2007 also saw the successful US launch of alli, the first over-the-counter OTC weight loss aid approved by the Food and Drug Administration FDA, which is currently being reviewed by European regulatory authorities.
Through our Consumer A Healthcare business, and its expertise in sales and marketing, we are well placed to be the partner of choice for switch products, bringing them from the prescription to the OTC market.
Summary Top five Consumer Healthcare products by turnover 2007 Products Turnover Our Consumer Healthcare business is a key part 2007 of GSK.
It is a pro table, logical complement to our m Pharmaceutical operation with a powerful portfolio Lucozade 347 and a healthy pipeline.
Aquafresh 308 Outstanding performance in 2007, with doubleSensodyne 293 digit sales growth.
Panadol 262 Horlicks 174 Excellent prospects, particularly in developing economies.
Capitalising on long-term potential Global healthcare markets are in a state of change.
For example, Opportunity to share expertise and resources there is an increasing trend for governments to cut state across the two businesses.
healthcare costs by in uencing a switch from prescription to generic or OTC products.
Steady, long-term growth helps balance the Pharmaceutical business.
Looking ahead, healthcare is becoming more consumer-centred.
People expect to be able to access medical knowledge and to in uence their own treatments.
For many, OTC products are their first destination for everyday healthcare.
We expect that the highest rates of growth for all healthcare businesses will be driven by the developing, emerging economies.
OTC is the foundation of healthcare in these countries.
In China, for example, OTC accounts for 36 per cent of drug expenditure, compared to eight per cent in North America and 10 per cent in Western Europe.
04 GSK Annual Review 2007 Sharing strengths The Consumer Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals businesses are not stand alone entities, but are complementary and synergistic in a number of important areas.
They are both backed by scienceendorsed strategies and a focus on R&D.
There is a growing trend worldwide for patients to manage their own healthcare, choosing OTC products, rather than relying on a prescription a behaviour in which our Consumer Healthcare professionals are richly experienced.
We are able to draw on these skills and knowledge in our Pharmaceutical business and share costs and resources.
We also share expertise and resources in other areas, such as regulatory matters, R&D, marketing, distribution and procurement.
Getting the balance right A personal perspective from The Pharmaceuticals business operates in a tough climate.
Increased legislation, cautious regulatory regimes and pricing pressures are among the key challenges that face any pharmaceutical company.
At the same time, the patent framework for pharmaceutical products tends to result in a relatively short life cycle for even the most successful treatments.
Ken James Senior Vice President, Consumer Healthcare R&D In contrast, our Consumer Healthcare business offers long-term, steady cash ow.
A broad portfolio of pharmaceutical and OTC products can help mitigate the impact of losses to generics and help One reason we in Consumer smooth the more volatile nature of the pharmaceutical markets.
Healthcare are so passionate about working for GSK is our belief in our global mission to help people do more, feel better and live longer.
Were proud to work for a company thats already helped 6.5 million people around the world stop smoking through therapeutic nicotine products and averted more than one million premature deaths.
The prospect of helping millions of people around the world lose weight through the alli programme is really exciting.
With this programme we are starting to tackle the growing obesity epidemic which has the potential to cause hundreds of thousands of cases of Type 2 diabetes and other serious health problems associated with being overweight.
Theres also a huge amount of enjoyment in innovating GSKs Consumer Healthcare products.
Its very energising to see products that my team developed on the shelves of supermarkets and pharmacies, and advertised on TV, backed by some great claims that are supported by excellent research.
Everywhere you look in the Consumer Healthcare business theres pride at seeing a great business ourish and move forward with industry leading sales growth and a fantastic pipeline to follow too.
GSK Annual Review 2007 05 COMPANY PERFORMANCE Share prices in the sector havent performed well, what is the Q outlook for GSK?
Sector challenges After many years of sustained value creation for shareholders, the pharmaceutical sector has suffered a fide-rating since the beginning of 2001.
The main factor behind the fide-rating is that R&D productivity, which is integral to the growth of the pharmaceutical industry, has declined.
Share price valuations in the past also included more value for the longer-term potential of R&D pipelines than is currently the case.
At the same time, the level of generic competition has intensi ed.
GSK has been able to withstand this pressure better than many of our peers because of the broad nature of our product line, a ow of new products from our pipeline and the greater protection we experience in our vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
A In fact every year since the merger at the end of 2000 we have delivered increased sales, at CER, despite challenging market conditions.
In financial terms, over the same period, total returns to shareholders for GSKs peer group were down 29 per cent.
The Summary total return to GSK shareholders over this period was down 15 per cent, above the performance of the peer group.
To ensure that we remain an industry leader, we are 2007 the Avandia factor addressing the issues which face the pharmaceutical In 2007 GSKs share price fell by five per cent compared to sector.
an increase in the FTSE 100 index of four per cent.
That was disappointing for our investors, a signi cant number of whom Investment to achieve industry leading R&D are also our employees.
We started 2007 strongly and achieved several important A new 1.5 billion Operational Excellence milestones including the launches of Tykerb and the FDA approval programme.
In the first quarter, we beat expectations and delivered EPS growth of 14 per cent.
As the market received this positive news A 10 per cent increase in the dividend paid to our our share price outperformed most of our peers.
Then, in May shareholders for 2007.
2007, an article in the New England Journal of Medicine NEJM suggested that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with T he largest share buy-back programme in the Avandia, our second largest product.
This was followed by intense industry.
media coverage and despite our efforts to explain the entirety of the data, which did not con rm this risk, doctors were reluctant to A ttracting and retaining the best employees.
prescribe Avandia for new patients without further FDA guidance.
Sales of Avandia dropped signi cantly and this had a negative impact on our share price.
Following clari cation from the FDA in October 2007, we now have a new approved label and can move ahead with more clarity.
Taking action to create long-term value The Board and management continually review GSKs business strategy and the external environment with a view to achieving growth on a sustainable basis.
06 GSK Annual Review 2007 GSK share price performance 2007 16 NEJM article on Avandia 15 14 13 12 11 29 12 06 30 03 07 29 06 07 28 09 07 31 12 07 Source: Bloomberg Financial News Data points: end of month A personal perspective from Our industry has a long-term investment cycle, driven primarily by the time it takes to develop a new pharmaceutical product at least 10 years.
The decisions taken over the last seven years that have improved R&D productivity at GSK, will still take time to have a major impact on our revenues.
However, as investors become more con dent in our strategy, and key pipeline products make it Duncan Learmouth to the market, this will begin to be factored into our share price.
Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and Community Partnerships At the same time, we are very focused on taking action to enhance returns for shareholders by accelerating our ef ciency Its important that our performance programmes and returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share buy-backs.
The Board approved a 10 per cent is considered in the context of the increase in its dividend for 2007 and in July, the company challenges facing the pharmaceutical announced the largest share buy-back programme in the industry.
After the third quarter, we announced a signi cant new 1.5 billion Operational Excellence programme to improve the Our strategy to deliver shareholder value is ef ciency and productivity of our operations.
First and foremost is our major strategic focus on improving R&D productivity.
to deliver annual savings of up to 700 million by 2010.
At GSK were working hard to improve the R&D Reducing costs does not mean cutting down on talent.
It takes a long time to bring new medicines respected worldwide as a company where the best people can to market, but our focus on developing a healthy do their best work, and we continue to attract, retain and reward pipeline is already delivering promising results.
In the seven years since the merger weve made the brightest employees, from sales teams on the front line to the excellent progress and I believe were ahead of scientists who are at the forefront of discovering new therapies.
Secondly, we continue to optimise the sales performance of our marketed products, whilst at the same time maximising the operational ef ciency of the company.
For example, our selling, general and administrative costs as a percentage of sales have decreased from 36 per cent in 2001 to just 30 per cent in 2007.
Thirdly, we are committed to our objective to deliver increases in dividends to drive a long-term, sustainable increase in total shareholder return.
GSK Annual Review 2007 07 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT How is your R&D pipeline performing?
Q The best year for pharmaceutical R&D since the merger 2007 saw GSKs best year for R&D since the company was formed in 2000.
We have undoubtedly made great strides in the last seven years but there remains more to achieve and more bene ts which we can look forward to as our investment in the pipeline delivers.
During the year, three new chemical entities and one new vaccine were approved: Veramyst for allergic rhinitis, Tykerb for breast cancer, Altabax for skin infections and Cervarix to prevent cervical cancer.
We have progressed a range of products through the pipeline, positioning us well for the future.
A total of nine new phase III programmes started.
These are the large scale trials where we seek to ascertain safety, and also to prove unequivocally the A ef cacy of the medicines before submitting them for approval.
Our initiative to in-license potential treatments continued.
We brought three new late-stage programmes into the company and Summary moved a further four into late-stage development, improving our ability to reload and sustain the pipeline we need.
This has been a good year for our R&D team.
A By its nature, R&D carries inherent risk.
We were pleased that number of important new products and potential 2007 was a year of few disappointments, with the most notable products moved through our pipeline and we termination being that of odiparcil, to prevent blood clots.
number of product line extensions were delayed which we had hoped would gain final regulatory approval in the US, including 3 4 key assets in phase III registration.
Lamictal XR and Requip XL.
T hree new chemical entities approved, and one Promising progress in vaccines new vaccine.
We have a large and promising vaccines pipeline, with 24 projects in clinical development, including seven in phase III trials and 1 0 new product opportunities led with regulators.
another five led with regulators.
Cervarix, our HPV vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, has now Nine new phase III clinical development been approved in over 50 countries across the world.
licensing applications have been submitted in 28 countries, including Japan.
In the US, the FDA issued a Complete Response Three late-stage development programmes inletter for Cervarix in December 2007.
We plan to submit our licensed.
response to this letter in the second quarter of 2008 and continue our discussions regarding the application with the FDA.
While Cervarix is perhaps our most high-pro le vaccine, several other vaccines made progress during 2007.
Rotarix for rotavirus, a disease which causes severe childhood diarrhoea, was led in the US in June, following prior approval in over 100 countries worldwide.
We also led Syn orix, a vaccine to prevent pneumococcal disease, in Europe and International markets at the end of the year.
Our meningitis vaccine Men-ACWY and our 08 GSK Annual Review 2007 innovative MAGE-A3 vaccine for the treatment of non small cell lung cancer both entered phase III trials in 2007.
In October 2007 we also received encouraging safety and ef cacy data with our vaccine to protect against malaria, which is currently in phase II development.
These results have given us the con dence to move into large scale phase III trials which are due to begin in the second half of 2008.
Adapting to the changing environment We are responding in many ways to the challenges of R&D productivity that are faced by companies in the pharmaceutical sector.
Our network of CEDDs focus skills and resources on targeted disease areas.
The CEDDs create the spirit of a small R&D-led team within a very large pharmaceutical organisation and allow us to be more nimble, and therefore productive, in our approach.
In 2007 we opened two new CEDDs, in ImmunoA personal perspective from in ammation and Infectious Diseases, both of which are headed by world-class scientists.
An important element of our strategy is to access a broad diversity of thinking.
One way we do this is by partnering with academic centres worldwide.
In 2007, we opened our new clinical imaging centre at Hammersmith Hospital in London, where research is Dr Jingwu Zang concentrating on cancer, stroke and neurological diseases.
A Head of GSK R&D in China second key strand is to make sure that GSK is well-represented wherever the most cutting edge science is practised.
In 2007, Ive worked as a physician scientist in the we opened a new fully integrated research institute in China.
multiple sclerosis eld for over 20 years, GSK has a very active external partnering strategy.
In 2007 we both in Europe and the US.
Five years entered into nine external product licensing collaborations, together with a number of other partnerships to further develop ago, I decided to return to China and utilise novel science and technologies in pharmaceutical and something Id never imagined doing biological R&D.
because I wanted to use my international We continue to actively review our therapeutic area strategies to experience to contribute to scienti c examine all the areas in which we have a presence and prioritise development in China.
those that demonstrate the most potential.
We aim to derive 20 per cent of our pipeline from biopharmaceuticals by 2015 it is Ive since founded and co-founded two institutes around six per cent at present.
We have also increased our with the Chinese Academy of Sciences and gained investment in neurosciences, vaccines and oncology research.
great experience in setting up new organisations of international standing, with the aim of Whilst it remains a tough challenge to discover medicines and connecting basic research to clinical application vaccines, the level of understanding, scienti c advancement and through cutting-edge research.
We believe that at GSK the opportunity to discover new products is now greater than ever.
In the past two years I was approached by many pharmaceutical companies, none of which I seriously considered because I am an academic at heart and wanted to contribute to better treatments through research.
Then, in March 2007, I met with Moncef Slaoui, Chairman of GSK R&D, and learnt about the unique vision to establish a fully-integrated R&D centre in China.
I was really excited by this vision and wanted to be part of it.
GSK R&D in China has now grown to a team of nearly 60 staff, from all around the world, and we have started several biology programmes in multiple sclerosis and neural stem cell research.
We expect to grow the team to 1,000 scientists over the next seven to eight years and I am truly excited by the great potential that R&D China will bring to the GSK mission.
GSK Annual Review 2007 09 COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS What are you doing to improve healthcare in the developing Q world?
Getting the balance right For a commercial organisation like GSK, there is a balance to be struck between the return to shareholders and our desire to improve access to our products, particularly for patients in the developing world.
HIV AIDS has both worsened the healthcare crisis in sub-Saharan Africa and brought it worldwide attention.
Poverty means that too many are denied education or die from malnutrition and a lack of clean drinking water.
The ability of a pharmaceutical company to address the healthcare problems of the developing world must be seen in this broader context.
Where we offer our anti-retrovirals ARVs and anti-malarials at not-for-pro t prices, this is in addition to our signi cant A community investment activities.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report has more details of our efforts to improve access to medicines, in both the developing and the developed world, and information about our other community partnership programmes.
Summary Do more, feel better, live longer HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are killing around 20,000 GSK is an industry leader in providing access to people every day.
We believe that playing our part is not just the medicines in the developing world.
right thing to do: it is the only thing to do.
P referential pricing ensures that the poorest can We contribute through action in four areas: preferential pricing of still bene t from our treatments and vaccines.
our ARVs, anti-malarials and vaccines: investing in R&D into diseases of the developing world: community investment activities O ur investment in R&D is helping to build a rich and partnerships that foster effective healthcare: and through pipeline which re ects the needs of the developing innovative partnerships.
Sometimes, the healthcare crisis in Africa is used by some pressure groups to attack our industry or the intellectual property IP I nnovative partnerships have created system.
But it is important to understand that we rely on IP to breakthroughs in treatments and vaccines for generate the funds which enabled us to invest 3.2 billion in R&D neglected diseases.
We will continue to stress this to those who would like to see the IP environment weakened.
C ommunity investment activities help promote education and better healthcare.
Without investment in R&D we will not see the much-needed new medicines and vaccines.
This requires a delicate balance which we believe we achieve - to the bene t of shareholders and patients the world over.
Preferential pricing We have provided our vaccines at preferential prices to the developing world for over 20 years.
10 GSK Annual Review 2007 Our HIV AIDS and malaria treatments are offered at not-for-pro t prices to public sector customers and not-for-pro t organisations in all the Least Developed Countries and all of sub-Saharan Africa.
Including Global Fund and other eligible programmes, our notfor-pro t prices are now available in around 80 countries.
Innovative partnerships For products with no viable commercial market, such as truly neglected tropical diseases, we work in public-private partnerships.
We provide the R&D, technology, manufacturing and distribution expertise while academic institutions provide research and disease area knowledge.
Public sector partners, governments, or organisations such as the Gates Foundation, help fund the project and assist in getting the medicines to the people who need them.
Funds are usually channelled through organisations such as the TB Alliance and the Malaria Vaccine Initiative.
A personal perspective from These programmes have transformed R&D in neglected diseases.
For example, the pipeline for malaria treatments is now the richest the world has ever seen.
We have granted voluntary licenses to allow generic manufacturers to produce their own versions of our key ARVs for HIV AIDS.
There is now global capacity to manufacture enough Justine Frain ARVs to meet the worlds needs the challenge is to get the Vice President, Global Community Partnerships medicines to the people who need them.
Community investment During 2007 we marked 15 years of January 2008 saw the 10th anniversary of our commitment to helping communities living with eliminate lymphatic lariasis LF, also known as elephantiasis.
To date we have reached over 130 million people, and 24 million children have been born in areas that are now LF-free.
Much of our work focuses on disease prevention and We also currently support signi cant HIV AIDS education on addressing stigma and discrimination.
programmes in Africa, India, China and Mexico.
Each programme Thankfully, the availability of anti-retroviral drugs faces different challenges, but the importance of education for impoverished communities is improving, but we need to do all we can to encourage people to be among people marginalised by society is common to all.
tested and to take their treatment.
Too many people Further community investment programmes include Personal will approach a clinic and walk around it a few times Hygiene and Sanitation Education PHASE, which focuses on but are afraid to be seen entering.
In Kenya, we are how the simple act of washing hands can prevent diarrhoeal involved in a partnership where the main clinic has the capacity to treat 800 people, yet only 350 were disease and save lives.
registered for treatment despite the huge need in the local community.
Empowering people to deal with the challenges of HIV is a real step forward.
An HIV positive woman risks being cast out by family and neighbours, yet somehow needs to nd the con dence to challenge accepted sexual practices and to protect her child, which may include not breast feeding.
I recently met with a patient support group of 30 HIV positive people at one of our projects in Nairobi.
They were sitting under a tree discussing the importance of eating well and taking tablets regularly.
One girl epitomised empowerment for me.
She had a real re about her.
She was determined not to be a forgotten statistic, but to make her voice heard.
It was wonderful to see how our support was enabling her to live positively.
She wasnt afraid to recognise her status and was determined to challenge the stigma of AIDS.
GSK Annual Review 2007 11 CEO DESIGNATE AND CHAIRMAN Three questions for Andrew Witty The AGM will see a new Chief Executive Of cer take the reins at GSK, Andrew Witty.
Can you tell us about your career so far?
I joined Glaxo in 1985 and held a variety of sales and marketing positions in the UK from Sales Representative to Director of Pharmacy and Distribution.
After a spell in our International New Products Group I moved to Johannesburg as Managing Director of Glaxo South Africa, before moving to the USA to become Vice President and General Manager, Marketing for Glaxo Wellcome.
For four years I was based in Singapore as Senior Vice President, Asia Paci c. In January 2003 I took over as President, Pharmaceuticals Europe and joined the Corporate Executive Team.
In October 2007 I was delighted and honoured to be asked to succeed JP Garnier as CEO of GlaxoSmithKline.
How have you been spending your time as CEO designate?
I have been talking to stakeholders both inside and outside of the company and meeting with as many employees as possible getting under the skin of all areas of the business is really Andrew Witty, CEO Designate important to me.
For example, Consumer is a part of the business in which I have not spent a lot of time working directly, but the more time I spend there, the more excited I am about our capability in this area.
Ive also been working with JP to prepare for my new role.
His support in the past few months has been invaluable and its been a pleasure to work with him.
One thing Ive really noticed as Ive travelled around is the passion and energy that the people of GSK have.
Its something that reassures me that we have a tremendous group of people who are ready to engage in what is a very dif cult environment.
What plans do you have for the future of GSK?
It is too early for me to present my plans for the future, and I want to take advantage of the conversations I am having with stakeholders and employees before I really lock in on that.
But let me say this, the environment that we nd ourselves in as a pharmaceutical company is so different from seven or eight years ago that it is almost unrecognisable, whether you look at the impact of regulators, and the way in which they have become more conservative, or the focus of society on what the pharmaceutical industry does.
It will be no surprise to you that my plans will focus on engaging with this environment.
I believe it will require us to concentrate on how we develop our business model and on the way we operate.
A company like GSK has a special opportunity to develop products to meet unmet medical needs.
There remain signi cant diseases across the world, where vaccination or treatment has the potential to transform the lives of millions.
To meet these needs, we have to focus on R&D productivity and this is why the redevelopment of R&D, started by JP seven years ago, is so pivotal to the future of the company.
Im committed to continuing on that journey.
We also need to make sure, that when we bring new medicines and vaccines to market, that we engage with the payers to prove value.
We cannot expect them to pay for something where we have not demonstrated value.
This is an area that I am particularly keen on developing further.
I am also very focused on resourcing and investing in those areas of our business that represent great growth opportunities, such as vaccines, biopharmaceuticals, oncology, our consumer business of course, and the emerging markets of the world.
Pharmaceutical companies must also continue to play their role in wider aspects of society for example, in ghting diseases in the developing world.
Access to medicine is a terri c example of where GSK continues to take a strong and sustained leadership position.
The world needs companies like GSK to deliver medicines for neglected diseases, because if we do not, who will?
Our aim is clear to ensure that GSK navigates its way through this dif cult environment better than anybody else and delivers even more medicines and vaccines of value to patients in the future.
That is the direction in which I want to take GlaxoSmithKline forward.
12 GSK Annual Review 2007 Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder 2007 turned out to be a very challenging year for the company as we unexpectedly faced a severe decline in sales of Avandia, our second biggest product.
In spite of this, I am pleased to report that the company was able to respond and deliver a very good financial performance.
I am grateful to our dedicated people for their efforts and passion which contributed so much to our success.
I also extend the companys thanks to you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
The AGM sees the retirement of our Chief Executive Of cer JP Garnier, who has served GSK with great style and distinction since the merger in December 2000.
JP brought wit, wisdom and hugely impressive business acumen to his role.
He was directly responsible for many of the innovations of the last seven years, including the introduction of our Centres of Excellence in Drug Discovery, which have transformed the way we approach R&D, and driving a renewed focus and energy behind our vaccines business.
Thank you, JP, on behalf of the Board and the stakeholders of GSK.
Andrew Witty becomes our new Chief Executive Of cer at the AGM.
Having worked for us since 1985, Andrew is experienced, enthusiastic and well-respected both inside GSK and Sir Christopher Gent beyond.
I have no doubt that he will ensure that GSK ful ls its rich potential, and I look forward to working alongside him.
There have been further changes in the management team in the past 12 months including the departure of David Stout.
David served in many capacities, most recently as President of Pharmaceutical Operations, and I wish him every success for the future.
I would also like to thank Rupert Bondy, Senior Vice President and General Counsel who will be leaving GSK at the end of March 2008.
We also welcomed Professor Sir Roy Anderson to the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Andrew Witty and Chris Viehbacher as Executive Directors.
Overall, I am con dent in GSKs strength as an organisation and that we have the expertise to deal with the changing environment we face.
Thank you again for your support.
Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman Laying the foundation stone to extend Meeting employees at the Notre-Dame fide Presenting at the Pediarix vaccine Opening of the Clinical Imaging Centre, the u vaccine site in Dresden, Germany.
Conducting a royal visit to the GSK Visiting a lymphatic lariasis programme Breaking ground at the new state of the Meeting President Bush to discuss Biologicals site at Wavre, Belgium.
GSK Annual Review 2007 13 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GSKs performance is driven by our strategy Key performance indicators Turnover, business performance earnings per share growth and total shareholder return Strategy Optimising the performance of marketed products Turnover bn CER growth % Both the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare businesses focus on ways to improve the return from the Groups intellectual property by 2007 22.7 2 maximising sales of key products.
GSKs activities include: achieving worldwide sales force excellence 2006 23.2 9 achieving Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence 2005 21.7 7 maintaining the highest ethical standards improving the cost-effectiveness of operations Business performance earnings per share pence CER growth % 2007 99.1 10 2006 95.5 19 Delivering our product pipeline for patients GSK aims to create the best product pipeline in the industry for the 2005 82.6 18 bene t of society.
This includes developing a focused strategy to support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds from launch as prescription medicines through to potentially becoming overTotal shareholder return the-counter products.
GSK measures R&D productivity by the number and level of innovation of 175 the products it creates, and by the ability to address unmet patient needs.
150 Being the best place for the best people to do their best work 125 GSK is committed to creating the best place for the best people to do 100 their best work by: 75 recruiting and developing the best people in the industry 01 01 05 31 12 05 31 12 06 31 12 07 supporting a culture of high reward for high performance GSK Total Return Index GSK Pharma Peers Return Index FTSE 100 Total Return Index ensuring good communication and employee involvement maintaining a diverse and healthy workforce Share price US$ Improving access to medicines 16 60 GSK is nding innovative ways to bring medicines, vaccines and health education to patients in all countries, including those suffering from 15 epidemics and neglected diseases.
55 14 50 13 12 45 Maximising total shareholder return TSR GSK continues to work to maximise TSR through EPS growth, dividend 40 11 increases and share repurchases 01 01 05 31 12 05 31 12 06 31 12 07 UK share price US ADR price US$ At 22 February 2008, the share price was 11.10 $44.20 per ADR For further information visit www.
com investors The calculation of business performance is described on page 18.
16 GSK Annual Review 2007 Key developments in 2007 Group turnover was 22.7 billion, up 2% at constant exchange rates compared with 2006 Top ten Pharmaceutical products: Seretide Advair 3,499 million, up 10% Imigran Imitrex 685 million, up 3% Vaccines products 1,993 million, up 20% Flixotide Flovent 621 million, down 1% Avandia products 1,219 million, down 22% Coreg 587 million, down 18% Lamictal 1,097 million, up 18% Seroxat Paxil 553 million, down 6% Valtrex 934 million, up 18% Augmentin 530 million, down 6% Other key pharmaceutical growth drivers, Arixtra, Avodart, Boniva and Requip delivered combined sales of 892 million up 47% Top five Consumer Healthcare products: Lucozade 347 million, up 16% Panadol 262 million, up 14% Aquafresh 308 million, up 12% Horlicks 174 million, up 12% Sensodyne 293 million, up 16% The launch of alli in the USA in June was very successful, with sales of 150 million achieved Business performance operating margin improved by 1.3 percentage points to 34.9% of turnover In February 2008, GSK had 157 pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in clinical development, compared with 158 in February 2007 34 major product opportunities were in phase III development or registration including: elesclomol metastatic melanoma Promacta thrombocytopenia Entereg post-operative ileus Rezonic chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting H5N1 pandemic u vaccine Syn orix S. pneumonia and non-typeable Haemophilus in uenzae ofatumumab rheumatoid arthritis Tykerb Armala in ammatory breast cancer Late stage projects terminated included and odiparcil for prevention of blood clots The Group carries out a global leadership survey of over 10,000 managers every two years The last survey in 2006 showed a strong commitment to performance with integrity Management has been working since then on addressing the areas for improvement The Group is committed to encouraging diversity amongst its employees and in 2007 37% of the global management population was female 2006 36% Global community investment was valued at 282 million, 3.8% of total pro t before tax The lymphatic lariasis elimination programme continued with another 150 million albendazole treatments donated, making almost 750 million treatments in total GSK shipped 13 million Combivir tablets and 72 million Epivir tablets to developing countries at not-for-pro t prices.
Approximately 183 million tablets were supplied by generic manufacturers licensed by GSK Other international humanitarian product donations totalled 16 million Business performance EPS was 99.1p, up 10% CER Total EPS was 94.4p, up 5% CER Dividend declared for 2007 of 53p, up 10% A new share buy-back programme of 12 billion over two years was announced in July, of which 2.5 billion was spent in 2007 and a further 6 billion is expected in 2008 GSK Annual Review 2007 17 BUSINESS OPERATING REVIEW GSK delivers good 2007 performance Pharmaceuticals GSK recorded a 161 million share of co-promotion income for GSKs Pharmaceutical turnover in 2007 was in line with 2006 as highBoniva Bonviva, a once-monthly oral treatment of postmenopausal value growth products were offset by lower Avandia sales and US osteoporosis.
generic competition to Coreg IR, Flonase, Wellbutrin XL and Zofran.
Vaccine sales increased 20% to 2.0 billion, with good performances High-value growth products included Seretide Advair, vaccines, Lamictal, in all regions: Sales of hepatitis vaccines grew 14% to 529 million, Valtrex, Requip, Avodart and Boniva.
Infanrix Pediarix grew 9% to 543 GSK continues to be a global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals million, again driven by US growth of 23%.
Sales of the new two-dose with sales of its three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent and vaccine, Rotarix, to prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis, doubled to 91 Serevent amounting to 4.4 billion, up 8%.
Total sales of Seretide Advair, million, with strong growth in both Europe and International.
Sales of for asthma and COPD, rose 10% to 3.5 billion.
Sales in the USA grew Cervarix, GSKs vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, were 10 million.
9% to 1.9 billion, in Europe, grew 9% to 1.2 billion and in International It has been approved in over 50 countries and licensing applications markets, grew 23% to 372 million, enhanced by its launch in Japan have been submitted in 28 countries including Japan, GSKs prein June.
pandemic in uenza vaccine achieved sales of 146 million.
Discussions regarding further orders continue with a number of governments.
Market share by value for Seretide Advair In Cardiovascular and urogenital, sales of Coreg, for heart disease, fell 18% to 587 million, following the introduction of US generic competition.
Sales of Coreg CR, which was launched in March 2007, Sep 07 29% Europe were 88 million.
Avodart for enlarged prostate, continued to perform Sep 06 29% Europe strongly with sales up 38% to 285 million.
Sep 07 31% US Anti-bacterial sales declined 1% to 1,330 million re ecting generic competition in all regions.
In Oncology and emesis Tykerb achieved Sep 06 33% US sales of 51 million in its first year: 36 million in the USA following its launch in March.
Sales of Zofran declined 77% to 196 million, re ecting generic competition.
Seretide Advair market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD therapy class was 29% in Europe and 31% in the USA.
Competition The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
GSKs principal Central nervous system sales decreased 2% to 3.3 billion.
Sales competitors range from small to large pharmaceutical companies, decreased in the USA and Europe, re ecting generic competition for often with substantial resources.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject Seroxat Paxil.
Total Wellbutrin sales declined 37% to 529 million, to competition from other products during the period of patent owing to US generic competition.
Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment protection and, once off patent, from generic versions.
Following of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, grew 18% to 1.1 billion, driven by the loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly capture a large sales in the USA which increased 26% to 892 million.
For further details, please see Products and Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome Competition on pages 32 to 35 in the Annual Report 2007. grew 36% to 346 million.
Requip XL, a new once-daily formulation for Parkinsons disease, has now been approved in 13 European Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area: countries and launched in seven markets.
2007 2006 Growth Within Antivirals, sales of HIV products were 1.4 billion, down 1%.
m m CER % Competition to older products, Combivir and Epivir, was largely offset Respiratory 5,032 4,995 5 by strong sales growth of new products, Epzicom Kivexa, which grew Central nervous system 3,348 3,642 2 39% to 324 million and Lexiva Agenerase up 13% to 141 million.
Antivirals 3,028 2,827 13 Sales of Valtrex, for herpes, rose 18% to 934 million, with the USA up Metabolic 1,514 1,875 15 20% to 668 million, Europe up 9% to 120 million and International Vaccines 1,993 1,692 20 up 13% to 146 million.
Sales of Relenza, an antiviral treatment for u, Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,554 1,636 were 262 million 2006 91 million, driven primarily by one-off Antibacterials 1,330 1,369 1 government orders for stockpiling against a possible u pandemic.
Oncology and emesis 477 1,069 54 Sales of the Avandia product group, for type 2 diabetes, declined 22% Other 957 973 1 to 1.2 billion.
In the USA sales fell 29% to 780 million, following 19,233 20,078 publication of an article in the New England Journal of Medicine, which suggested that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with Presentation Avandia.
Despite GSKs efforts, doctors became reluctant to start new Management reports business performance, a non-IFRS measure which excludes patients on Avandia without further guidance from the FDA.
Following costs relating to the new Operational Excellence programme, which commenced clari cation from the FDA in October, there is now a new approved in October 2007, as it believes this provides a more useful indication of the label for Avandia.
In 2007 sales in Europe grew 4% to 227 million, performance of the Group.
but declined 7% to 212 million in International markets.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
All commentaries are presented in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
18 GSK Annual Review 2007 Business operating review continued Share buy-back programme 5 pence increase in dividend resulting In July 2007, GSK announced an increased share buy-back programme to 12 billion, a 7.7 billion increase compared with continuation of the in 53 pence per share for the year existing programme.
The new programme is expected to be completed over a two year period.
In 2007, 3,537 million of the shares were repurchased and held as Treasury shares and a further 213 million Consumer Healthcare sales were purchased for cancellation.
Consumer Healthcare sales recorded growth of 14% to 3,483 million.
Cash ow Over-the-counter sales grew 20% to 1.7 billion, with Panadol up 14% The net cash in ow from operating activities after taxation paid was to 262 million and alli, GSKs weight management product, achieving 6,161 million, an increase of 1,804 million over 2006.
Free cash ow sales of 150 million, since its US launch in June.
Oral care sales was 3,857 million, an increase of 47% over 2006, principally re ecting increased 8% to over 1 billion, helped by the success of the new the impact of the US tax settlement in 2006, partly offset by higher Aquafresh White Trays and Sensodyne Pronamel.
Nutritional healthcare levels of capital expenditure.
sales grew 9% to 716 million with Lucozade growing 16% to 347 million and Horlicks 12% to 174 million.
Ribena sales were down 7% From July 2007 onwards, GSK tightened its criteria for holding cash to 156 million.
equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis.
GSK has suffered no loss of principal as a result of this crisis.
Operational Excellence GSK announced in October 2007 a signi cant new 1.5 billion 2008 outlook Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and Sales growth of existing products and launches of new products are key productivity of its operations.
This new programme is expected to drivers of GSKs business.
The sales growth from key products such as deliver annual pre-tax savings of 700 million by 2010.
GSK has Seretide Advair, vaccines, Valtrex and the high potential products, introduced a 3-column approach to the income statement.
In order Avodart, Arixtra and Boniva is expected to continue in 2008.
Sales growth to illustrate underlying business performance, a supplemental is also expected from newer products Lovaza, Cervarix, Tykerb Tyverb, non-IFRS measure, as this is the primary performance measure used Rotarix, Veramyst Avamys and Altabax Altargo.
Sales growth of Avandia, by management.
Restructuring costs relating to the new Operational GSKs product for diabetes, has been adversely impacted following Excellence programme and signi cant acquisitions are identi ed publication in May 2007 of a meta-analysis.
GSK expects a sustained separately and are excluded from business performance.
Management ow of new products in the next two years.
Thirteen new product believes that exclusion of these items provides a more useful indication opportunities are currently led with regulators: these include Promacta of the performance of the Group.
USA, Rotarix USA, Treximet USA and Syn orix EU and International.
GSK currently has 34 key assets in phase III development registration.
Operating profit business performance Business performance operating pro t of 7,931 million increased by In its published earnings guidance for 2008 GSK expects that the 8% in CER terms compared with 2006 and was above turnover growth impact of lower Avandia sales, together with increased generic of 2% in CER terms, re ecting lower SG&A and R&D costs and higher competition, will lead to a mid-single digit percentage decline in other operating income.
business performance EPS, at constant exchange rates.
Operating pro t total Legal proceedings Total operating pro t, including restructuring costs of 338 million, The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative was 7,593 million and total EPS was 94.4 pence.
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, antitrust and governmental investigations and related private litigation.
Taxation See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, in the The charge for taxation on total pro t amounting to 2,142 million Annual Report 2007 for a discussion of proceedings and investigations represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% 2006 29.5%.
The charge in which the Group is involved.
for taxation on business performance pro t, amounting to 2,219 million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% 2006 29.5%.
The Groups main open tax issues are in the UK, USA, Canada and Japan.
See Note 14 to the financial statements, Taxation, in the Annual Report 2007 for further details.
Earnings per share Total results including restructuring costs related to the new Operational Excellence programme produced a basic EPS of 94.4p compared with 95.5p in 2006.
This was a 5% increase in CER terms compared with 2006, but a 1% decline in sterling terms.
Business performance earnings per share were 99.1p, up 10%.
Dividend The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 16 pence per share, resulting in a dividend for the year of 53 pence per share, a 5 pence increase over the dividend of 48 pence for 2006.
GSK Annual Review 2007 19 THE BOARD AND CORPORATE EXECUTIVE TEAM The Board Sir Christopher Gent Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Andrew Witty Professor Anderson Dr Stephanie Burns Lawrence Culp Sir Crispin Davis Julian Heslop Sir Deryck Maughan Dr Daniel Podolsky Sir Ian Prosser Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Dr Moncef Slaoui Tom fide Swaan Chris Viehbacher Sir Robert Wilson Sir Christopher Gent Aged 59 Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 60 Appointed on 1st June 2004.
NonSir Christopher was the Chief Executive Of cer of Vodafone Group plc, Executive Director.
Sir Deryck is a Managing Director of Kohlberg until his retirement in July 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Kravis Roberts & Co.
He was formerly Chairman and CEO of Citigroup Brothers Holdings Inc. a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari S. p. A. a member International and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of KPMGs Chairmans Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. and a of Reuters Group plc and BlackRock Inc. member of the advisory board of Reform.
Dr Daniel Podolsky Aged 54 Appointed on 1st July 2006.
Non-Executive Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 60 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Podolsky is Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of on 21st May 2008.
Dr Garnier was appointed an Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief School as well as Chief Academic Of cer of Partners HealthCare System.
Executive Of cer in April 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director of United He is also Chairman of the Board and Scienti c Co-Founder of the GI Company.
Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of Overseers of the Sir Ian Prosser Aged 64 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Senior Weill Cornell Medical College.
Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Andrew Witty Aged 43 Appointed on 31st January 2008.
He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, Designate.
He will succeed Dr Garnier on 21st May 2008.
Mr Witty joined a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI the Group in 1985 and has held senior positions in Asia, Africa, Europe and Presidents Committee.
In January 2003 he was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 69 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
He has served as a board member of the Singapore Economic Executive Director.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Director Development Board.
He is a member of the INSEAD UK Council, a Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General of the Of ce for Strategic Coordination of Health Research, sits on the Group plc, a member of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Imperial College Commercialisation Advisory Board and is a member of Company and Cabot Corporation and of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG.
the Health Innovation Council in the UK.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 48 Appointed on 17th May 2006.
Chairman, Professor Sir Roy Anderson Aged 60 Appointed on 1st October 2007.
Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where Non-Executive Director.
Professor Anderson is the Professor of Infectious he engineered the development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He has a PhD Disease Epidemiology in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
and until September 2007, was the Chief Scienti c Adviser at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
He will become Rector of Imperial College in July 2008.
Tom fide Swaan Aged 61 Appointed on 1st January 2006.
Mr fide Swaan was a member of the Managing Board and Chief Dr Stephanie Burns Aged 53 Appointed on 12th February 2007.
NonFinancial Of cer of ABN AMRO until January 2006.
He is a member of the Executive Director.
Dr Burns is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Board of Directors of Zurich Financial Services and Vice Chairman of the Of cer of Dow Corning Corporation.
She is also a member of the American Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold, a Chemical Society and sits on the Executive Committee of the Society of member of the Supervisory Boards of Royal DSM and of Corporate Express, Chemical Industry, America Section, serves on the Board of Directors of and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers.
the American Chemistry Council, and on the Board of Directors for the Society for Womens Health Research.
Dr Burns holds a PhD in organic Christopher Viehbacher Aged 47 Appointed on 31st January 2008. chemistry from Iowa State University.
Mr Viehbacher joined the group in 1988 and has held a variety of senior positions in Europe and Canada.
He was Lawrence Culp Aged 44 Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Non-Executive appointed President, US Pharmaceuticals in January 2003.
Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive Of cer of Danaher the European Commission approved G10 working group to restore the Corporation.
Prior to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, competitiveness of the EU Pharmaceutical industry.
He is a board member previously Andersen Consulting.
of PhRMA, the CEO Roundtable on Cancer and Research!America.
Sir Crispin Davis Aged 58 Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Non-Executive Sir Robert Wilson Aged 64 Appointed on 1st November 2003.
Sir Crispin is Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, Executive Director.
Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc and The Economist Group and was previously Executive Chairman of plc, where he was a member of the main board and Group Managing Rio Tinto.
He spent his early career with Procter & Gamble.
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on page 25.
Julian Heslop Aged 54 Appointed on 1st April 2005.
Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
In January 2001 he was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations Controller.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior finance roles at Grand Metropolitan.
20 GSK Annual Review 2007 The Corporate Executive Team JP Garnier Andrew Witty Rupert Bondy John Clarke Marc Dunoyer Eddie Gray Russell Greig Julian Heslop Dan Phelan David Pulman Moncef Slaoui Chris Viehbacher Duncan Learmouth Bill Louv JP Garnier Chief Executive Of cer.
As Chief Executive Of cer, JP is Duncan Learmouth Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications responsible for the management of the Group.
He oversees all operational and Community Partnerships.
Duncan is responsible for the Groups aspects of the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and investor relations, internal and external communications, its image and initiatives, and he directs long-term strategy.
He was formerly Chief partnerships with global communities.
He joined Glaxo in 1991 and was Executive Of cer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
Vice President, Global Investor Relations, before appointment to his current position in July 2006.
Andrew was appointed CEO Designate in October 2007, and will succeed JP Garnier as CEO May 2008.
Andrew Bill Louv Chief Information Of cer.
Bill succeeded Ford Calhoun as Chief joined Glaxo UK in 1985.
During his career with the company he has held Information Of cer on 31 January 2007.
He is responsible for information the roles of Vice President and General Manager, Marketing for Glaxo technology, a global function that enables key business processes across Wellcome Inc. in the US, and Senior Vice President, Asia Paci c. He was all parts of the Group.
Bill joined the Group in 1994, and has held a number appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe for GlaxoSmithKline in of increasingly senior roles in IT, including US Pharmaceuticals and GSKs January 2003.
Rupert Bondy Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
Rupert is Dan Phelan Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Dan is responsible responsible for legal matters across the Group, together with environment, for bene ts, compensation, recruitment, organisation development, health and safety issues and security.
He was a lawyer in private practice leadership development and succession planning, human resource before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995.
He will leave GSK in March information systems and employee health management.
He was a lawyer 2008. in private practice before joining Smith Kline & French in 1981.
John Clarke President, Consumer Healthcare.
John is responsible for the David Pulman President, Global Manufacturing and Supply.
David is Consumer Healthcare business which produces oral care, over-the-counter responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply organisation and and nutritional healthcare products.
He joined Beecham in 1976 and was Global Procurement.
He trained as a microbiologist and joined Glaxo in the President of the Future Group before his current appointment in 1978.
He has broad experience of manufacturing operations having January 2006. previously lead the Primary Supply, European manufacturing, North American manufacturing, Global Logistics and Manufacturing Strategy Marc Dunoyer President, Pharmaceuticals Japan.
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March 2003.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and Regional Director, Japan until his Moncef Slaoui Chairman, Research & Development.
Moncef leads the current appointment.
Groups complex drug discovery and development activities.
He joined the Group in 1988 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Eddie Gray President, Pharmaceuticals Europe.
Eddie became responsible Development until his current appointment in June 2006. for the Groups operations in Europe in January 2008.
He joined Beecham in 1988 and, prior to his current appointment, was Senior Vice President Chris Viehbacher President, US Pharmaceuticals.
Chris is responsible for and General Manager, Pharmaceuticals UK.
He joined Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSKs European Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointment Russell Greig President, Pharmaceuticals International.
Russell leads the in 2003. pharmaceutical operations outside the US, Japan and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined the Group in 1980 and was Other members Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development for R&D prior to Ford Calhoun retired as Chief Information Of cer on 31st January 2007. his current appointment in March 2003.
David Stout left the Group in February 2008.
Bob Ingram continues to act as a special consultant to the Group and attends CET meetings in that Julian Heslop Chief Financial Of cer.
Julian became Chief Financial Of cer capacity.
As head of the finance function he is responsible for activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, finance systems, internal audit, insurance and real estate.
He joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
GSK Annual Review 2007 21 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Summary Remuneration Report Introduction This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the The Summary Remuneration Report sets out the annual remuneration interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with of the Board earned in 2007, together with any gains made under longunambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success to the term incentive arrangements.
It also describes the background and companys shareholders.
outlines the Groups re muneration policy, together with the Commitment performance graph required by the Directors Remuneration Report The Committee will apply this policy in a consistent and transparent Reg ulations 2002 the Regulations.
Any signi cant change will be discussed with shareholders in The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for advance of implementation.
making recommendations to the Board on the companys Pay and performance comparators remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, The following table sets out the companies used for pay and determining the total individual remuneration packages of the performance comparison: Executive Directors and members of the CET Executives.
The members Market Capitalisation of the Committee are set out on page 25.
31.12.07 Company Country m The Committee has developed the remuneration policy to align Abbott Laboratories US 45,822 executive remuneration with the interests of share holders whilst Amgen US 25,322 meeting the imperative of recruiting and retaining the executive talent AstraZeneca UK 32,549 essential to the leadership of the company.
Bristol-Myers Squibb US 26,486 The Company has announced the appointment of its new CEO, Eli Lilly US 31,955 effective May 2008.
A dialogue has begun, with the purpose of GlaxoSmithKline UK 70,452 reviewing the alignment of the remuneration structure with the new Johnson & Johnson US 96,264 business priorities set by the new CEO.
This may lead to changes being Merck US 63,509 considered over the coming year.
Novartis Switzerland 74,112 P zer US 80,550 The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continues to have Roche Holdings Switzerland 63,543 regular dialogue with institutional investors regarding GSKs SanoAventis France 65,724 remuneration policy.
Schering-Plough US 21,854 Deloitte & Touche LLP have been appointed by the Committee to Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Japan 25,196 provide it with independent advice on executive remuneration.
Wyeth US 31,944 only included for performance comparison Remuneration policy Principles GSKs executive remuneration consists of the following The policy for GSK is designed to secure outstanding executive talent, components: and to provide pay for performance and only for performance, within a Base salary transparent and robust governance structure.
Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the relevant market.
GSKs policy is based on the following key principles: For executives this is the pharma ceutical pay comparator group.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is xed.
the remuneration structure must support the business in a very competitive market place: Annual bonus All annual cash bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum e xtent of annual performance against relevant stretching financial targets and consistent with the needs of the business and the company would are subject to detailed assessment of individual, business unit and maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders: Group achievements against objectives.
global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay The Committee took into account the companys success in achieving comparator group: these targets, as well as individual Executives performance, when performance conditions would be based on the measurable delivery determining the bonus awards for 2007. of strong financial performance and the delivery of superior returns to Looking forward, to drive the necessary changes through the business, shareholders as compared with other pharmaceutical companies: the Committee may set additional targets with associated bonuses for a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will be based the achievement of speci c operational goals.
Any incremental bonus on performance-related remuneration, which will be delivered over will be in the form of GSK shares deferred for a period and will not the medium-term to long-term: and exceed 100% of salary.
no ex-gratia payments will be made.
Long-term incentives The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term incentive Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration for awards will normally be made up of a performance share award and a median performance with the opportunity to earn upper quartile total share option award.
The remuneration policy places greater emphasis remuneration for exceptional performance.
Poor performance will on the use of performance shares rather than share options.
result in total remuneration signi cantly below the pay comparator group median.
22 GSK Annual Review 2007 Summary Remuneration Report continued The Committee has considered which performance conditions should This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK be applied to the long-term incentives.
The Committee concluded that shareholder guidelines and expectations and is demanding when it was appropriate to measure performance using a combination of compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical absolute financial results based on earnings per share EPS and the companies.
This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for delivery of superior value to shareholders based on Total Shareholder performance and only for performance.
Return TSR measured against the comparator group.
The performance criteria relating to performance shares and share For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based on options granted prior to 2008 are given in the Annual Report 2007. the companys TSR relative to the performance c omparator group over Performance periods ended 31 December 2007 a three-year measurement period.
The performance share awards The performance share awards for the Executive Directors excluding granted in February 2008 vest in accordance with the graph below.
Dr Slaoui, over the performance period ended 31 December 2007, vested in part 38.47% because GSKs relative TSR performance placed the company above the median of the comparator group.
Maximum 100% The awards made to other senior executives in 2004, including Dr Slaoui, were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part on 80% EPS performance.
The TSR portion vested in part and the EPS portion vested in full.
60% The share options granted in 2004 to the Executives vested in full.
50% Pensions Threshold 35% The Executives participate in GSK senior executive pension plans.
The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans operated for executives in the country in which the Executives are likely 0% to retire.
Bene ts are normally payable at age 60.
14th 8th 7th 6th 4th 2nd Median Executive Director terms and conditions GSK TSR Ranking The policy regarding the Executive Directors contracts was the subject of extensive review and change during 2003.
This resulted in a new framework for contracts for Executive Directors appointed since then.
The performance conditions applying to the share options granted to In the event of early termination by the company, Dr Garnier, who will the Executives are linked to the achievement of compound annual EPS retire from the Board in May 2008, would receive a cash sum equivalent growth in excess of the Retail Prices Index RPI measured over a threeto the total of his annual salary, on target bonus and pension year performance period.
contributions for the balance of his twelve month notice period.
When setting EPS targets, the Committee considers the companys TSR performance graph internal projections and analysts forecasts for GSKs EPS performance, The graph below sets out the performance of the company relative to as well as analysts forecasts for the pharmaceutical industry.
the FTSE 100 index of which the company is a constituent and to the Vesting of share options granted in February 2008 increases on a performance comparator group.
It has been prepared in accordance straight-line basis for EPS performance between the hurdles as set out with the Regulations and is not an indication of the likely vesting of in the graph below.
awards granted under any of the incentive plans.
Dollar amounts are included in the totals based on conversion to Sterling at the average exchange rates for each year.
Following the merger, and in order to encourage employees to convert their non savings related options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares or ADSs, for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, employees were granted an additional cash bene t equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option.
This additional bene t, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive EOI, is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value.
During the year, Dr Garnier received $1,132,994 2006 $192,639, in EOI payments as a result of exercising options granted to him in March and November 1997, during February and August 2007.
These options would have expired in March and November 2007 had they not been exercised.
Dr Yamada received $184,516 2006 $60,204 and Mr Coombe received 67,200 2006 nil relating to options exercised under the EOI.
Those amounts are included in the table above.
Non-Executive Directors are required to receive a signi cant part of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs and from 1 October 2004, all Non-Executive Directors, except the Chairman, are required to take at least 25% of fees under the fee allocation arrangement.
They can also elect to invest part or all of the remaining balance of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs.
The value of these shares and ADSs at the dates of award are included in fees and salary above.
These shares and ADSs are not paid out until the Director leaves the Board.
In addition to annual compensation, GSK operates share plans to provide incentives to Executive Directors to achieve longer-term growth in shareholder value.
Gains under such plans are recognised on exercise or maturity of the award, but re ect value earned over a period of years.
The timing of exercise is normally at the discretion of the Director.
Full details relating to the operation of the companys share plans may be found in the 2007 Annual Report.
The accrued annual bene ts under the fide ned bene t pension schemes operated by the Group were: Dr Garnier $1,235,053: Mr Heslop 142,257: Dr Slaoui 53,000 and $71,559.
In addition, Dr Garnier and Dr Slaoui are members of a money purchase scheme into which contributions of $198,475 and $85,212, respectively, were paid during 2007.
Dr Burns and Professor Sir Roy Anderson joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 12 February 2007 and 1 October 2007 respectively.
None of the above Directors received reimbursement for expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
24 GSK Annual Review 2007 Corporate Governance Governance and policy Audit Committee The Board and Corporate Executive Team The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting The Directors are listed under The Board on page 20. process, the system of internal control and management of risks and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is directly governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
The strategy and financial performance.
Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
It Dr Garnier is the CEO, he will retire from the Board at the end of the meets at least four times a year.
AGM and Mr Witty will succeed him as CEO.
The CEO is responsible for Remuneration Committee executive management of the Group and is assisted in this by the CET.
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and The CET meets 11 times per year and otherwise as necessary.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET and, members and their responsibilities are listed under Corporate Executive with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates and Team on page 21. makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive The Board comprises five Executive and eleven Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee consists entirely of independent The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns, Mr Culp, Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman, in accordance Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr with the Combined Code.
It meets at least four times a year and Schmitz, Mr fide Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are each independent otherwise as necessary.
During the annual review of Board Nominations Committee effectiveness, the Board concluded that Dr Schmitz remained The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and independent, notwithstanding his length of service.
In the opinion of the composition of the Board and the appointment of members to the Board, he continues to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as whilst at the same time possessing an outstanding knowledge of the appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of succession business.
Sir Ian Prosser is the Senior Independent Director.
to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee consists entirely At the date of publication and throughout 2007, a majority of the of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are independent, and Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Nonmeets at least once a year and otherwise as necessary.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Board process The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of NonThe Board meets at least six times a year.
It has a formal schedule of Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates speci c review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact responsibilities to Board committees, as described below.
The Board upon the Groups business and reputation and for the oversight of works to an agreed business agenda in reviewing the key activities of reputation and the views of external stakeholders.
The Committee is the business, and receives papers and presentations to enable it to do also responsible for governance oversight of the Groups worldwide so effectively.
The Board considers and reviews the work undertaken by donations and community support.
The Committee meets formally its Committees.
three times a year and otherwise as necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to Financial Results Committee individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, a barrister, who was appointed in May the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and 2000.
He joined GSK in 1984 and is secretary to all the Board Committees.
the convening of the AGM, together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Director is a member of the Board Committees Committee and the quorum for a meeting is any three members.
To be The Board has established a number of committees.
Executive Directors quorate, each meeting must include the Chairman or the Chairman of are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations or the Audit Committee and the CEO or the CFO.
The Committee meets Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they may be invited to as necessary.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee Membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and approves matters in connection with the administration of the Groups Corporate business, and certain corporate transactions.
The Committee consists Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
The Sir Christopher Gent M C C Committee meets as necessary.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson Dr S Burns M Remuneration of Directors Mr L Culp M Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the Summary Sir Crispin Davis M Sir Deryck Maughan M Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 24.
Dr D Podolsky M M Sir Ian Prosser M M M Dr R Schmitz M M M Mr T fide Swaan C M Sir Robert Wilson M C Key: C Chairman.
GSK Annual Review 2007 25 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS Responsibility statements Annual Review Independent auditors statement to the members of The Annual Review is a summary report and does not contain suf cient GlaxoSmithKline plc information to allow as full an under standing of the results and state of We have examined the Summary financial statements which comprise affairs of the Group as is provided by the Annual Report 2007. the Summary consolidated income statement, Summary consolidated Shareholders requiring more detailed information may obtain, free of balance sheet and Summary consolidated cash ow statement and the charge, a copy of the Annual Report and may also elect to receive a Summary Report of the Directors including the Summary Remuneration copy of the Annual Report in future years refer to Shareholder Report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Independent Auditors report on the full financial statements of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in Group for the year ended 31st December 2007 is unquali ed and does accordance with applicable law.
not contain any statement concerning inadequate accounting records Our responsibilit y is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of or failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
the Summary financial statements within the Annual Review with the Statement by the Directors Annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the The Annual Review 2007 is the Summary Directors report and includes Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant the Summary financial statements of Glaxo SmithKline plc for the year requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the ended 31st December 2007, which is published in hard-copy printed regulations made thereunder.
The Business operating review, the Summary We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and financial statements, the Summary Remuneration Report and the consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any Statement on corporate governance are summaries of information in apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary the Annual Report 2007. financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the These statements, including the opinion, have been prep ared for and Annual Review on the website in accordance with the UK legislation only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section governing the preparation and dis semination of financial statements.
251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other comparable legislation may be different.
purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or Disclosure of information to auditors into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior The Directors have each con rmed that: consent in writing.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of Basis of opinion which the companys auditors are unaware: and We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary financial statement issued by the each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the companys full annual as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with In our opinion the Summary financial statements are con sistent with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. the Annual consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report Corporate governance and the Directors Remuneration Report of GlaxoSmith Kline plc for the The Combined Code on Corporate Governance is speci ed by the year ended 31 December 2007 and comply with the applicable Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority for the guidance of requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the listed companies Combined Code.
The Board considers that regulations made thereunder.
throughout 2007 and up to the date of approval of this review, GlaxoSmithKline plc applied the principles of the Combined Code and,  LLP with the exception of matters where the companys position is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors described in the Annual Report, complied with the provisions of the London Combined Code, and the guidance on internal control issued by the 27th February 2008 1998 Turnbull Committee.
The Annual Review, including Summary financial statements, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes Sir Christopher Gent that may have occurred to the full annual financial statements or the Summary Chairman financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
27th February 2008 b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
26 GSK Annual Review 2007 Summary financial statements Summary consolidated income statement 2007 2006 Business Restructuring performance costs Total Growth m m m CER% m Turnover Pharmaceutical 19,223 19,233 20,078 Consumer Healthcare 3,483 3,483 14 3,147 Total turnover 22,716 22,716 2 23,225 Cost of sales 5,206 111 5,317 8 5,010 Gross pro t 17,510 111 17,399 18,215 Selling, general and administration 6,817 137 6,954 7,257 Research and development 3,237 90 3,327 1 3,457 Other operating income 475 475 307 Operating pro t 7,931 338 7,593 3 7,808 Finance income 262 262 287 Finance costs 453 453 352 Share of after tax pro ts of associates and joint ventures 50 50 56 Pro t before taxation 7,790 338 7,452 2 7,799 Taxation 2,219 77 2,142 2,301 Pro t after taxation for the year 5,571 261 5,310 3 5,498 Pro t attributable to minority interests 96 96 109 Pro t attributable to shareholders 5,475 261 5,214 5,389 5,571 261 5,310 5,498 Basic earnings per share pence 94.4p 5 95.5p Diluted earnings per share pence 93.7p 94.5p Summary consolidated balance sheet 2007 2006 m m Total non-current assets 17,377 14,561 Total current assets 13,626 10,992 Total assets 31,003 25,553 Total current liabilities 10,345 7,265 Total non-current liabilities 10,748 8,640 Total liabilities 21,093 15,905 Net assets 9,910 9,648 Shareholders equity 9,603 9,386 Minority interests 307 262 Total equity 9,910 9,648 Summary consolidated cash ow statement 2007 2006 m m Net cash in ow from operating activities 6,161 4,357 Net cash out ow from investing activities 3,009 1,521 Net cash out ow from nancing activities 1,741 4,792 Increase decrease in cash in the year 1,411 1,956 Exchange adjustments 48 254 Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 1,762 3,972 Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,221 1,762 Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005 Overdrafts 158 243 3,221 1,762 GSK Annual Review 2007 27 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Financial reporting The table below sets out the dividends per ADS in US dollars in the last Financial reporting calendar 2008 five years translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
Announcement of 1st Quarter Results April 2008 Year US$ Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results July 2008 2007 2.14 Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results October 2008 2006 1.80 Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 20092005 1.57 2004 1.53 Publication of Annual Report Review February March 2009 2003 1.39 Results Announcements Dividend calendar Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are Fourth quarter 2007 available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are issued to the media, are made available on the website and are submitted to the US Ex-dividend date 13th February 2008 Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange.
Record date 15th February 2008 Payable 10th April 2008 Financial reports The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not First quarter 2008 needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review.
These are Ex-dividend date 30th April 2008 available on the website.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders.
Record date 2nd May 2008 Shareholders may also elect to receive the Annual Report by writing to Payable 10th July 2008 the companys registrars.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive noti cation by email of the publication of financial reports by registering Second quarter 2008 on www.
Copies of previous financial reports are Ex-dividend date 30th July 2008 available on the website.
Printed copies can be obtained from the Record date 1st August 2008 registrar in the UK and from the GSK Response Center in the US.
Payable 9th October 2008 Publications Third quarter 2008 In late March 2008 GSK will publish on the website its Corporate Ex-dividend date 29th October 2008 Responsibility Report covering performance in areas including Record date 31st October 2008 community investment, ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&D, Payable 8th January 2009 environment and health and safety.
Annual General Meeting 2008 Share price 2007 2006 2005 The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE At 1 January 13.44 14.69 12.22 on 21st May 2008.
High during the year 14.93 15.77 15.44 Summary Directors Report Low during the year 11.60 13.26 11.75 Pages 16 to 26 and pages 28 to 29 consist of summary financial At 31 December 12.79 13.44 14.69 information derived from the Report of the Directors in the Annual Decrease increase 5 % 9 % 20% Report 2007 that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived from liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Report are subject to the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List.
The companys share the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
price decreased by 5% in 2007 from a price of 13.44 at 1st January 2007 to 12.79 at 31st December 2007.
This compares with an increase Notice regarding limitations on Director liability under in the FTSE 100 index of 4% during the year.
The share price on 22nd English law February 2008 was 11.10.
This Annual Review includes summary financial information derived from the Report of the Directors in the Annual Report 2007.
Under the UK Market capitalisation Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of Directors in The market capitalisation of GSK at 31st December 2007 was 70 respect of statements in and omissions from the Report of the Directors billion.
At that date GSK was the fifth largest company by market contained on pages 9 to 86 of the Annual Report 2007.
Under English capitalisation on the FTSE index.
law the Directors would be liable to the company but not to any third Dividends party if the Report of the Directors contains errors as a result of GSK pays dividends quarterly.
recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
The Board has declared dividends for 2007 as follows: 2007 2006 Cautionary statement Dividends per share pence pence Under the safe harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation First interim paid 12th July 2007 12 11 Reform Act of 1995, the company cautions investors that any forward Second interim paid 11th October 2007 12 11 looking statements or projections made by the company, including those Third interim paid 10th January 2008 13 12 made in this Annual Review, are subject to risks and uncertainties that Fourth interim payable 10th April 2008 16 14 may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Factors Total 53 48 that may affect the Groups operations are described under Risk factors and Legal proceedings in the companys Annual Report 2007.
28 GSK Annual Review 2007 Shareholder information continued The provision of the details on this page is not intended to be an US invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101 share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free financial adviser.
Tel: 1 215 751 4000 outside US SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Stock Ordinary shares 1990 2010 The companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require Registrar SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i. e. 1 for The companys registrars are: every 1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June, September and December.
Holders wishing to redeem all or part of Equiniti their loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their loan Aspect House, Spencer Way, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA stock certi cate and return it to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days www.
co. uk before the relevant redemption date.
Tel: 0871 384 2991 inside the UK Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK Share buy-back programme Equiniti also provide the following services: GSK has repurchased 11.6 billion of its own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which 3.8 billion was spent in 2007.
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan In July 2007 a programme totalling 12 billion of share repurchases GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account over two years commenced.
The programme covers purchases by the GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, in Shareview service accordance with the authority given by shareholders at the AGM in 2007.
Shareview dealing service Dividend reinvestment plan In May 2007, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 575 million shares.
Details of shares purchased, those held as Treasury Shareview dealing service shares and those cancelled are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial Shareholders may buy or sell shares by internet or telephone through statements, Share capital and share premium account in the Annual Shareview Dealing, a share dealing service provided by Equiniti.
For Report 2007. internet purchases and sales log on to www.
co. uk dealing and for telephone purchases and sales call 0871 384 2020 inside the The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to UK only between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs on market conditions and other factors.
The Share Centre Limited Share capital and control Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Information in respect of section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 is Tel: 44 0 1296 414 141 given in the notes section of the companys Notice of Annual General American Depositary Shares Meeting.
The companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Internet NYSE in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs and these are Information about the company, including details of the share price, is evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of which available on GSKs website at www.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of In general, the NYSEs rules permit the company to follow UK corporate this Annual Review.
governance practices instead of those that apply in the US, provided that the company explains any signi cant variations.
This explanation is Trademarks provided on the companys website.
[Brand names appearing in italics throughout this publication are trademarks either owned by and or licensed to GSK or associated ADR programme administrator companies, with the exception of Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of The ADR programme is administered by: Roche, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation in the US, The Bank of New York Mellon Lymphostat-B, a trademark of Human Genome Sciences, and HuMaxShareholder Relations CD20, a trademark of Genmab, all of which are used in certain PO Box 11258, Church Street Station countries under license by the Group. ]
New York NY 10286-1258 Investor relations www.
com Investor Relations may be contacted as follows: Tel: 1 877 353 1154 US toll free Tel: 1 212 815 3700 outside US UK 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
GSK Response Center Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free GSK Annual Review 2007 29 Q A www.
com Head Of ce and Registered Of ce GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792 Produced by Corporate Communications, GSK.
Designed by Conran Design Group.
Printed in the UK by St. Ives Direct Edenbridge Ltd.
