Taxation information for shareholders Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax A summary of the main tax consequences for and US estate or gift tax.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would holders of shares and ADRs who are citizens generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
or residents of the UK or the USA is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of all the Stamp duty UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to possible tax consequences of purchase or certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate ownership of these securities.
It is intended of 0.5% of the purchase price.
There is a minimum charge of 5 only as a general guide.
Holders are advised where a stamp duty liability arises.
to consult their advisers with respect to US shareholders the tax consequences of the purchase and The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal ownership of their shares or ADRs, and the income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US holder of consequences under state and local tax shares or ADRs.
This summary only applies to a shareholder that laws in the USA and the implications of the holds shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the current UK US Income Tax convention.
USA or a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States federal income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares or ADRs, and is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices at and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or the date of this report.
vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the Taxation of dividends underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double The gross amount of dividends received without reduction for any taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax UK withholding tax is treated as foreign source dividend income for Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADRs are payable in US amended the Code.
dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount UK shareholders calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends Taxation of dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for shortFrom 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one ninth.
term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on dividend subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident individual quali ed dividends received before 2011.
Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to to consult their own Tax Advisers to con rm their eligibility.
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
Taxation of capital gains Taxation of capital gains Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other of shares or ADRs.
For disposals made prior to 6th April 2008, they disposal of shares or ADRs.
may also be entitled to indexation relief and taper relief on such Estate and gift taxes sales.
Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent purchases generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
from the date of such purchase.
Indexation relief for individual shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998.
Taper relief is available to Stamp duty individual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold shares for UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be at least three years before they are sold.
A capital gain is taxed at the payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or marginal tax rate of the individual.
For disposals after 5th April 2008 depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, the amount of it is proposed that no indexation or taper relief will be available and any consideration provided if transferred on sale, or their value if that a capital gain will be taxed at a at rate of 18% rather than the transferred for no consideration.
marginal tax rate of the individual.
These proposals are not yet law No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK stamp and may be subject to change.
duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that the Inheritance tax instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer the UK.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would be payable of shares or ADRs.
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result of any transfer underlying shares would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value.
case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
There is a minimum charge of 5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 179 INVESTOR INFORMATION Taxation information for shareholders
