Directors statements of responsibility Directors statement of responsibility in relation to Directors remuneration the consolidated financial statements The Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86 sets out the remuneration The Directors are responsible for: policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Directors ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which and of cers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, and complies with Section at any time and from which financial statements can be prepared to B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Going concern basis preparing financial statements for each financial period which give After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in in the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group as at operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the end of the financial period and of the pro t or loss for that they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the period financial statements.
ensuring the operation of systems of internal control and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for Internal control preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates The directors con rm that they have complied with the above in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2007, covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out Board of Directors.
in Financial statements on pages 90 to 158 of this report.
The Directors con rm that suitable accounting policies have been The Combined Code consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements, The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial as necessary.
Reporting Council, as described under Corporate governance on The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial pages 59 to 70, and has complied with its provisions except as statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report page described on page 69.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2007 the auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance are included in the Annual Report 2007, which is published in hardin relation to those points of the Combined Code which are speci ed copy printed form and made available on the website.
The Directors for their review.
are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing Annual Report the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2007, to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, legislation may be different.
the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors, in of ce at the date of this Report, have each con rmed that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant Sir Christopher Gent audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are Chairman aware of that information.
27th February 2008 This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
88 I GSK Annual Report 2007 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors statements of responsibility
