76 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twentieth AGM a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be of Greene King plc will be held at the Millennium Grandstand, purchased shall be 14,675,302 ordinary shares: Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk on Tuesday 4 September 2007 at 12 noon.
Resolutions 1 to 11 b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 12 to 14 be paid for each ordinary share shall be the nominal will be proposed as special resolutions.
value of the ordinary shares at the time of purchase: and 1 To receive and adopt the report of the directors and the c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may accounts for the fifty-two weeks ended 29 April 2007 and be paid for each ordinary share shall be 105 per cent of the auditors report thereon.
the average of the closing price of the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 2 That the directors remuneration report as set out on pages Official List for the five business days immediately 63 to 70 of the annual report for the fifty-two weeks ended preceding the day on which such share is contracted to 29 April 2007 be approved.
be purchased: and 3 To declare a final dividend of 16.45p per ordinary share.
d that the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM in 4 To elect Ian Durant as a director of the company.
2008 or fifteen months after the date of this resolution, except in relation to the purchase of shares pursuant to 5 To elect Jonathan Lawson as a director of the company.
contracts entered into before such expiry whose execution may be wholly or partly after such expiry.
6 To re-elect Rooney Anand as a director of the company.
14 Special resolution 7 To re-elect Norman Murray as a director of the company.
That 8 To re-elect Howard Phillips as a director of the company.
a the company be authorised, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, to send, 9 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the company convey or supply all types of notices, documents or until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
information to the shareholders by means of electronic equipment for the processing, storage and transmission 10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of of data, employing wires, radio, optical technologies, or the auditors of the company.
"any other electromagnetic means, this to include making such notices, documents or information available on a 11 That the authorities and powers conferred on the directors website: and by article 11 of the articles of association of the company be renewed for the period ending on the earlier of the date of b the regulations contained in the document marked ""A"" the AGM in 2008 or fifteen months after the date of this submitted to the AGM and initialled for the purposes of resolution and that for such period the section 80 amount identification by the chairman be approved and adopted shall be 6,114,709. as the new articles of association of the company, in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing 12 Special resolution articles of association with effect from the end of the That the authorities and powers conferred on the directors AGM."
by article 11 of the articles of association of the company be renewed for the period ending on the earlier of the date of the AGM in 2008 or fifteen months after the date of this By order of the board Registered office: resolution and that for such period the section 89 amount Westgate Brewery shall be 917,216.
Lindsay Keswick Bury St Edmunds Company Secretary Suffolk 13 Special resolution 2 July 2007 IP33 1QT That the company be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of its ordinary 1 2 shares of 12 p each provided that: GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 77 NOTICE OF MEETING Appendix 1 Communications with members Summary of proposed changes The company communication provisions of the Act provide a to the articles of association mandatory statutory regime for communications by and to a company.
However, certain provisions of the Act may be overridden and the proposed amendments to article 137, as well General as extending the company communication provisions to The proposed amendments reflect recent changes in the law in communications provided under the articles ensuring consistency relation to the electronic communications regime and certain with the Act, also provide that the existing deemed delivery other minor consequential changes required by the Companies times for notices will continue.
Existing company legislation permits companies to communicate Joint holders, deceased and bankrupt members with shareholders electronically in respect of certain types of The proposed new articles 138 and 139 override the statutory information.
However, the Act allows all shareholder information regime in the Act in relation to joint holders, deceased and including company notices, documents and other information to bankrupt members.
They are clearer and more favourable to the be sent by or to companies either in hard copy, electronic form company than the equivalent provisions in the Act, and reflect the such as email or fax and, in certain cases, by publication on a substance of the existing articles but extend the scope of the website.
If shareholders are invited to agree that a company may provisions to all documents and information to which a send or supply shareholder information by means of a website, shareholder is entitled, not merely notices.
those who do not respond within 28 days are deemed to have agreed to a company communicating shareholder information to them by means of a website.
Where shareholders agree or are Overseas members deemed to have agreed to communication of shareholder The proposed amendments to article 140 will mean that the information by means of a website, they must be notified by post company will continue not to be required to send notices, or, where applicable, email of the availability of the relevant documents and information to a shareholder who has not documents or information on the website, together with all supplied a postal address within the United Kingdom, subject to relevant access details.
the provisions of the Act.
Shareholders should note that the company does not propose to alter its current method of inviting shareholders to consent to Suspension of postal services electronic communications at this stage.
However, the new The proposed amendments to article 141 ensure that notice of a legislation provides for maximum flexibility in the future.
If the meeting is deemed given by advertisement of a notice in a company does seek to implement these changes, specific consent newspaper in situations where, because of a postal strike, the will be sought from shareholders at that time.
company is unable to send out hard copies of the notice of meeting.
Interpretation Certain definitions and expressions used throughout the articles Notes been amended, and others added, to align them with definitions 1 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the used in the Act.
Where the articles referred to provisions of the purpose of the determination by the company of the number Companies Act 1995 which have been repealed, amendments are of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the proposed so that the articles refer instead to the replacement companys register at 12 noon on 2 September 2007, or, if the provisions.
meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register after 12 noon on 2 September 2007 will be disregarded in determining the Authentication of documents by electronic means rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The proposed amendments to articles 69, 88, 122 and 142 derive from the company communication provisions in the Act, providing 2 Every member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is for the authentication of documents sent by electronic means.
entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of them.
A proxy need not be a member.
Any instrument appointing a proxy a form is included with Electronic proxies and written resolutions of directors this notice together with the power of attorney or other The proposed amendments to articles 70 and 96 clarify that a authority if any under which it is signed must be received proxy or written resolution of the directors can be passed using by the registrar not less than 48 hours before the time electronic means.
appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 78 NOTICE OF MEETING 3 Completing and returning a form of proxy will not preclude members from attending the meeting in person and voting should they so wish.
4 Employees participating in the Greene King Free4All profit share scheme can instruct the trustees to vote on their behalf by completing the form of direction.
5 Copies of the executive directors service agreements and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection from the date of despatch of this notice until the date of the meeting at the registered office of the company at any time during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and will also be available for inspection at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk from 10.00am on the day of the meeting until its conclusion.
6 Short biographical details of the directors standing for election or re-election can be found on page 18 of the annual report.
7 This year the company is again offering shareholders the opportunity to record a proxy vote electronically.
Certificated shareholders who would like to vote on-line may do so by visiting the shareholder portal, www.
com, and following the instructions.
You will need to insert your Investor Code as shown on the enclosed proxy form before you are able to vote.
In addition, the company would like to take the opportunity to register your e-mail address for future communications.
If your shares are held electronically via CREST, you may register your votes via your usual CREST link following established CREST procedures.
In both cases, instructions should be received by 12 noon on 2 September 2007.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 Printed on environmentally responsible Era Silk, which is made from 50% recycled paper and 50% from FSC PEFC accredited forests.
Designed and produced by Eye-D Creative Limited.
79 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar Shares trade ex-dividend from 1 August 2007 Record date for final dividend 3 August 2007 Annual general meeting 4 September 2007 Payment of final dividend 10 September 2007 Announcement of interim results December 2007 Payment of interim dividend February 2008 Preliminary announcement of the 2008 results July 2008 Registrars Capita Registrars Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA Telephone : 0870 162 3131 Fax : 01484 600 911 E-mail : shareholder.
com Greene King plc has teamed up with Climate Care to help combat climate change by providing shareholders with the opportunity to receive communications from the company electronically.
The company will donate 1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers.
Climate Care funds projects that reduce greenhouse gases the main cause of climate change.
com and either log in or click on Register new user and follow the instructions.
By registering your e-mail address you will receive e-mails with a web link to information posted on the companys website, including the report and accounts, notice of meetings and other information communicated to shareholders.
Company secretary and Lindsay Keswick registered office Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT Telephone : 01284 763 222 Fax : 01284 706 502 Website : www.
co. uk Share dealing services Stocktrade Telephone : 0845 601 0995 Redmayne Bentley Moseleys Farm Offices, Fornham All Saints, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP28 6JY Telephone : 01284 723 761 Capita IRG Trustees Limited Telephone : 0870 458 4577 Website : www.
com Capital gains tax For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of ordinary shares on 31 March 1982, after adjustment for the capitalisation issues in 1980 and 1982 was 72.5625 pence.
After take-up of the rights issue in July 1996, the March 1982 value becomes 129.6875 pence.
CORPORATE ADVISERS Financial advisers Citigroup The Citigroup Centre, 33 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB Stockbrokers Deutsche Bank AG London Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 3EQ Auditors Ernst & Young LLP 1 More Place, London SE1 2AF Solicitors Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 Registered in England No.
Registered Office, Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds Suffolk IP33 1QT Telephone: 01284 763222 www.
