59 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company Greene King plc for the period ended 29 April 2007 which financial statements.
The other information comprises only the comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 33 to 43. directors report, the chairmans statement, the chief executives These parent company financial statements have been prepared review incorporating the business review, the financial review, the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also corporate social responsibility report and the corporate audited the information in the directors remuneration report that governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report is described as having been audited.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our We have reported separately on the group financial statements of responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Greene King plc for the period ended 29 April 2007.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We conducted our audit in accordance with International audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing company's members those matters we are required to state to Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume company financial statements and the part of the directors responsibility to anyone other than the company and the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, of the significant estimates and judgments made by the or for the opinions we have formed.
directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the parent company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law information and explanations which we considered necessary in and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors assurance that the parent company financial statements and the responsibilities.
part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and company financial statements and the part of the directors International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
remuneration report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion parent company financial statements and the part of the In our opinion: directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the parent company financial statements give a true and fair report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted parent company directors' report is consistent with the financial Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at statements.
The information given in the directors report 29 April 2007: includes that specific information presented in the chief executives review incorporating the business review and the the parent company financial statements and the part of the financial review, cross referred from the business review section directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly of the directors' report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not the information given in the directors' report is consistent with kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the parent company financial statements.
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Ernst & Young LLP and other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered auditor London We read other information contained in the annual report and 2 July 2007 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
