53 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Greene King internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on plc for the period ended 29 April 2007 which comprise the group the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance income statement, the group balance sheet, the group cash flow procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statement, the group statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 32.
These group financial We read other information contained in the annual report and statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial out therein.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the chairmans statement, the chief executives review We have reported separately on the parent company financial incorporating the business review, the financial review, the statements of Greene King plc for the period ended 29 April 2007 corporate social responsibility report and the corporate and on the information in the directors remuneration report that governance statement.
We consider the implications for our is described as having been audited.
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to Basis of audit opinion them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the We conducted our audit in accordance with International fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out information and explanations which we considered necessary in in the statement of directors responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Opinion with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In our opinion : We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in The information given in the directors' report includes that specific accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of information presented in the chief executives review the state of the groups affairs as at 29 April 2007 and of its incorporating the business review and the financial review, cross profit for the period then ended: referred from the business review section of the directors' report.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the received all the information and explanations we require for our IAS Regulation: and audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Ernst & Young LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Registered auditor the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We London are not required to consider whether the boards statements on 2 July 2007 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
