24 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and accounts The directors are responsible for In preparing each of the group and Under applicable law and regulations, preparing the annual report and the parent company accounts, the the directors are also responsible for accounts, in accordance with directors are required to: preparing a Directors Report, applicable law and regulations.
Directors Remuneration Report and  select suitable accounting policies Corporate Governance Statement that Company law requires the directors to and then apply them consistently: comply with that law and those prepare group and parent company  make judgements and estimates that regulations.
accounts for each financial year.
Under are reasonable and prudent: that law they are required to prepare The directors are responsible for the  state whether they have been the group accounts in accordance with maintenance and integrity of the prepared in accordance with IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by the EU and corporate and financial information as adopted by the EU: applicable law and have elected to included on the Companys website.
prepare the parent company accounts Legislation in the UK governing the  prepare the accounts on the going on the same basis.
preparation and dissemination of concern basis unless it is accounts may differ from legislation in The group and parent company inappropriate to presume that the other jurisdictions.
accounts are required by law and by group and the parent company will IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present continue in business.
fairly the financial position of the group The directors are responsible for and parent company and the keeping proper accounting records performance for that period: the that disclose with reasonable accuracy Companies Act 1985 provides in at any time the financial position of the relation to such accounts that parent company and enable them to references in the relevant part of that ensure that its accounts comply with Act to accounts giving a true and fair the Companies Act 1985.
They have a view are references to their achieving general responsibility for taking such a fair presentation.
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
