GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 23 wide range of charity fund raising, Summary Chairman of the Audit Committee.
which makes an additional meaningful We believe that we have made steady The Companys internal audit function contribution to the wider communities progress in the key areas of Social assists in the monitoring of systems of in which we operate.
With their Responsibility during 2007, as control and augments the examination dedication and devotion, our described above.
The changes we have carried out by the external auditors.
employees are a true credit to the now made, to ensure dedicated, senior Disclosure of information Greggs and Bakers Oven names, and management responsibility for this to auditors the real benefits of what they achieve important area, are designed to ensure Each of the directors who held office are inestimable.
It is thanks to these that it obtains an even higher priority at the date of approval of this employees and their efforts that, as a within the business and thus ensure directors report confirms that, so far Company, we are able to make a the setting and achievement of as he she is individually aware, there is significant contribution to the appropriate targets in the years ahead.
no relevant audit information of which communities in which we operate.
AUDITORS the Companys auditors are unaware: Payments to Suppliers Auditor Independence and policy and that he she has taken all the steps Good relationships with our suppliers on the use of the auditors for nonthat he she ought to have taken as a are an important factor in the success audit work director to make himself herself aware of the Group.
Payments to suppliers of any relevant audit information and The Audit Committee has reviewed are made in accordance with the to establish that the Companys whether, and is satisfied that, the Groups normal terms and conditions auditors are aware of that information.
Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, of business except where varied terms continue to be objective and In accordance with Section 384 of the and conditions are agreed with independent of the Company.
KPMG Companies Act 1985, a resolution for individual suppliers, in which case Audit Plc does perform non-audit the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc these prevail.
Where disputes arise, services for the Group but the Audit as auditors of the Company will be we attempt to resolve them promptly Committee is satisfied that its proposed at the forthcoming Annual and amicably to ensure delays in objectivity is not impaired by such General Meeting.
payment are kept to a minimum.
work non-audit fees amounted to By order of the Board The average creditor payment period 81,000 during 2007 and related to for the Company and the Group at 29 taxation compliance services and Andrew Davison December 2007 was 39 days 2006 pensions advice.
Committees policy, to ensure that the Greggs plc CRN 502851 auditor's objectivity is not impaired by Fernwood House non-audit work, is that the Company Clayton Road should be able to incur fees of up to Jesmond 100,000 per year on non-audit work Newcastle upon Tyne inclusive of tax compliance advice.
NE2 1TL Any fees in excess of this must be 11 March 2008 discussed in advance with the
