64 65 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Parent Company Accounts Under UK GAAP Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We have audited the Company financial statements of Halfords BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Group plc for the 52 weeks to 30 March 2007 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of preparation of the Company financial statements, and of whether Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to 30 March 2007. the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Directors Remuneration Report and the Company financial order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements in accordance with applicable law and United assurance that the Company financial statements and the part of Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements Company financial statements and the part of the Directors and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, OPINION including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the In our opinion: Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by at 30 March 2007: our prior consent in writing.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company 1985: and financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Company financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
The  LLP, information given in the Directors Report includes that specific Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information presented in the Chief Executives Review and the Birmingham Finance Directors Report that is cross-referenced from the 6 June 2007 Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Finance Directors Report and the Corporate Governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
