42 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Accounting policies Basis of accounting As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 The accounts are prepared under International Financial Business Combinations to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European in its consolidated accounts.
As a result, the net book value of Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS impairment testing on that date: and goodwill that was written and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on preparing these accounts.
disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended Other intangible assets 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007. a Product development costs The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which cost convention, except as described below under the heading it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new requires the Directors to make judgments, estimates and or substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The and the decision to complete the development has been taken, estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical and can be measured reliably.
Such expenditure is capitalised experiences and various other factors that are believed to be as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet at cost reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
three years after which time it is retired and written out of Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an b Acquired intangible assets ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is future periods if the revision affects both current and future expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value periods.
The key areas where estimates have been used and can be measured reliably.
An acquired intangible asset is assumptions applied are in impairment testing of goodwill and amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a in assessing the defined benefit pension plan liabilities.
straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three and ten years.
Basis of consolidation c Computer software The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, its subsidiary companies made up to 31 March 2007, adjusted plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible to eliminate intra-Group transactions, balances, income and asset, and is amortised through the Consolidated income expenses.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic discontinued are included from the month of their acquisition life of between three and five years.
or to the month of their discontinuation.
Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events Goodwill in respect of acquisitions after 4 April 2004 represents or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development value of the net identifiable assets of the business acquired, expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production and is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated are subject to an annual impairment test.
Goodwill therefore includes non-identified An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income intangible assets including business processes, know-how and statement to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds workforce-related industry-specific knowledge and technical its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the skills.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be assets net realisable value and its value in use.
An assets recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
value in use represents the present value of the future cash On closure or disposal of an acquired business, this goodwill flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated on closure or disposal.
using a post-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Halma p. l. c. 2007 43 Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to hedge its other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in investment in foreign subsidiaries.
The effective part of any gain the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, or loss on these currency borrowings is recognised directly in but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does the Translation reserve within Shareholders funds.
The ineffective not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of statement.
Revenue Foreign currencies Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies The Group presents its accounts in Sterling.
Transactions in to external customers excluding value added tax and other foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at sales related taxes.
Transactions are recorded as sales when the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities the delivery of products or performance of services takes place denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is Provisions included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount, and is income statement.
recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the and the amount can be reliably estimated.
financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Goodwill arising on the Property, plant and equipment acquisition of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the the end of the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided these translations are taken to the Translation reserve within on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed or closed, Freehold buildings 2% the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after Leasehold properties: taking into account the cumulative translation difference held more than 50 years unexpired 2% within the Translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary.
less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem the Plant, machinery and equipment 8% to 20% Translation reserve to be nil at 4 April 2004.
Accordingly, the Motor vehicles 20% profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will 1 Short-life tooling 33 3% not include any currency translation differences which arose before 4 April 2004.
Leases Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those Financial instruments that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or All other leases are classified as operating leases.
trading purposes, but uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce its exposure to exchange rate movements.
Forward Assets held under finance leases are included within property, currency contracts are measured at cost usually zero and plant and equipment and initially measured at their fair value subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Where a forward or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, currency contract is designated as a hedge against variability and a corresponding liability is recognised within the in the cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or a highly Consolidated balance sheet as obligations under finance leases.
probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain Subsequently the assets are depreciated on a basis consistent or loss on the forward contract is recognised in Shareholders with owned assets or over the term of the lease, if shorter.
The cumulative gain or loss is removed from Shareholders inception of the lease, the lease rentals are apportioned between funds and recognised in the Consolidated income statement at an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a the same time as the hedged transaction.
The ineffective part of constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding liability.
any gain or loss, or gains or losses on forward currency contracts Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to that are not designated as hedges, are recognised immediately the Consolidated income statement and the capital element is in the Consolidated income statement.
applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
44 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Accounting policies continued Pensions All awards under this plan are equity-settled and are subject The Group makes contributions to various pension plans, to both market based and non-market based vesting criteria.
covering the majority of its employees.
Their fair value at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of For defined benefit plans, the asset or liability recorded in the market-based performance conditions being met.
The fair balance sheet is the difference between the fair value of the value is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a plans assets and the present value of the defined obligation at straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate that date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected for each plan on an annual basis by independent actuaries using and actual forfeitures arising from the non-market based the projected unit credit method.
The corresponding credit is All actuarial gains and losses as at 3 April 2004 were recognised to Shareholders funds.
in full in the Consolidated balance sheet at that date.
All actuarial gains and losses arising after 4 April 2004 are taken to Inventories Shareholders funds.
Inventories and work in progress of subsidiary companies are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any calculated either on a first in, first out or an average cost basis settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of income statement.
Interest on pension plans liabilities are production and other overheads considered by the Directors to recognised within finance expense and the expected return on be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and the schemes assets are recognised within finance income in condition at the year end.
Net realisable value represents the the Consolidated income statement.
estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
the Consolidated income statement when they fall due.
Taxation Employee share schemes Taxation comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the in the Consolidated income statement except to the extent that Groups share incentive plan, the share option plans and the it relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders funds, in performance share plan.
which case it is recognised in Shareholders funds.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, a Share incentive plan using tax rates enacted or subsequently enacted at the balance Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to sheet date, along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria.
Taxable profit differs from net profits as reported The shares awarded under this plan are purchased in the in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items market by the plans trustees at the time of the award, and that are never taxable or deductible.
are then held in trust for a minimum of three years.
The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated income statement Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the over the three-year vesting periods of the awards.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is b Share option plans accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart All grants of options under the 1990 and 1996 share option plans from the following differences which are not provided for: and the 1999 company share option plan together, the share goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition option plans are equity-settled, and so, as permitted by IFRS 1, of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment have been profits: differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the applied only to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 extent they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
which had not vested at 3 April 2005.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected The fair value of awards under these plans has been measured manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and will not of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws which are be subsequently remeasured.
The fair value is charged to the expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised expected vesting period, with adjustments being made during to the extent that recovery is probable.
this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures and changes to the vesting period itself arising from non-market based Cash and cash equivalents performance conditions.
The corresponding credit is to Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits Shareholders funds.
with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Bank overdrafts are No further awards will be made under the share option plans.
shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the Consolidated c Performance share plan balance sheet.
On 3 August 2005 the share option plans were replaced by the performance share plan.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
