Halma p. l. c. 2007 83 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report The Directors are also required to: and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to properly select and apply accounting policies: prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company present information, including accounting policies, in a manner law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 information: and of the IAS Regulation.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys understand the impact of particular transactions, other events financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, performance.
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud of Financial Statements and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Report of the In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved Directors and Directors Report on remuneration which comply by compliance with all applicable International Financial with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
