Principal subsidiaries Country of registration Holding Companies Hays Holdings Ltd England & Wales Hays Overseas Holdings Ltd England & Wales Hays Commercial Services Ltd England & Wales Hays Specialist Recruitment Holdings Ltd England & Wales Hays International Holdings Ltd England & Wales Hays Holdings BV Netherlands Trading Companies Hays Specialist Recruitment Ltd England & Wales James Harvard International Group Ltd England & Wales Hays Specialist Recruitment Ireland Ltd Ireland Hays Specialist Recruitment Australia Pty Ltd Australia Hays Specialist Recruitment Japan K. K. Japan Hays Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong SAR Hays Specialist Recruitment Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong SAR Hays Travail Temporaire SASU France Hays Regions SASU France Hays SASU France Hays AG Germany Hays Temp GmbH Germany Hays Schweiz AG Switzerland Hays Osterreich GmbH Austria Hays Specialist Recruitment Canada Inc Canada Hays Personnel Services BV Netherlands Hays S. a. r. l Luxembourg Hays Personnel BV Belgium Hays Czech Republic S. r. o Czech Republic Hays Poland Sp z. o. o Poland Hays Personnel Services Espana SA Spain Hays Personnel Espana Temporal SA Spain Hays Overseas Portugal SGPS LDA Portugal Hays Specialist Recruitment AB Sweden Hays FZ-LLC Dubai Hays S. r. l Italy Hays Recruitment and Selection Ltda Brazil At 30 June 2007, Hays plc and or a subsidiary or subsidiaries in aggregate owned 100% of each class of the issued shares of each of these companies.
Shares in companies marked with an asterisk were owned directly by Hays plc and in companies not so marked were owned by a subsidiary or subsidiaries of Hays plc.
The list of companies includes holding companies and those which had a material effect on the consolidated results to 30 June 2007.
Information on the other companies in the Group will be included in the next annual return.
Subsequent events As part of the share buy-back programme, the Company has purchased an additional 7.0 million shares held as treasury shares for a total cost of 11.7 million, after the year end.
The final dividend for 2007 of 3.40 pence per share 49.2 million will be proposed at the AGM on 15 November 2007 and has not been included as a liability as at 30 June 2007.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 November 2007 to shareholders on the register at 5pm on 19 October 2007.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71
