Headlam Group plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Measurement convention The company and group Financial Statements are prepared on the Headlam Group plc the company is a company incorporated in historical cost basis.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the the UK.
lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The group Financial Statements consolidate those of the company Basis of consolidation and its subsidiaries which together are referred to as the group.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control exists when The companys financial statements present information about the the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial company as a separate entity and not about its group.
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently Both the companys Financial Statements and the groups Financial exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as statements from the date that control commences until the date that adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
On publishing the parent control ceases.
company Financial Statements here together with the group Financial Statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
statement and related notes that form a part of these approved Financial Statements.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements of the group and the Financial Statements of the Accounting estimates and judgements company are set out below.
These policies have been applied Management discussed the development, selection and disclosure of consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
the groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the The principal exception is that, the directors have changed the application of these policies and estimates with the Audit committee.
accounting policies in respect of the following matters: In applying the accounting policies, appropriate estimates have been made in a number of areas and the actual outcome may differ from Amendment to IAS 1: Capital Disclosures.
the position described in the companys and groups Balance Sheet at IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that may give rise to a material adjustment to the The implementation of the changes noted above has not had an carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are effect on either the profit or the net assets of the group and the as follows: company for the period commencing 1 January 2007.
Property, plant and equipment The most notable effect of the changes implemented above is the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated additional disclosure presented in the Financial Statements regarding depreciation and impairment losses.
The group is committed to credit and market risk under IFRS 7. investing in new facilities where existing facilities fail to provide satisfactory customer service in a cost effective manner.
When Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting construction on a new facility is initiated, the existing facility is policies that have significant effect on the Financial Statements and marketed for sale and this action can on occasions give rise to an estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year adverse difference between cost and fair value.
It has been assumed are discussed below.
that at the balance sheet date, cost equates to fair value.
IFRS not yet applied Goodwill impairment The following IFRS is available for early application but have not been The impairment test for goodwill is dependent on the forecasts of applied for by the company or group in these Financial Statements: the cash flows of the cash-generating units and the assumptions relating to growth rate.
No impairment resulted from the annual IFRS 8 Operating Segments: Disclosure applicable for years impairment test for 2007. commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
This will require the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the groups chief operating decision maker in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources to them.
The group plans to adopt it during 2009.
