Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93 Shareholder Information Shareholder helpline Headlams shareholder register is maintained by Capita Registrars Capita, who are responsible for making dividend payments and updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders addresses and purchases or sales of Headlam shares.
If you have a question about your shareholding in Headlam you should contact: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA, telephone 44 0 871 664 0300 calls cost 10p plus network extras, email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Frequent shareholder enquiries If you change your address Please notify Capita in writing.
If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by all named shareholders.
If you change your name Please notify Capita in writing and enclose a copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
Lost Headlam share certificate If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call Capita immediately.
A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign.
Capita will charge for this service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts If you receive more than one copy of Headlam communications you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two accounts.
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly.
If you wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, call Capita to request the accounts are consolidated.
Buying and selling shares in the UK If you wish to trade in Headlam shares, you can do so at Capitas website, www.
com or alternatively use a stockbroker or high street bank which trades on the London Stock Exchange.
There are many telephone and online services available.
If you are selling, you will need to present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Transferring Headlam shares Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form.
This form, and details of the procedure you need to follow, is available from Capitas website.
Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no money being paid in exchange for the shares.
Share prices information Shareholders can find share prices listed in most national newspapers.
Ceefax and Teletext pages also display share prices that are updated regularly throughout the trading day.
For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker.
Additionally there is a link to the London Stock Exchange on the Headlam website.
The Headlam website The Headlam website at www.
com provides news and details of the companys activities, plus information on the share price.
The investor information section of the website contains up-to-date information for shareholders including the companys latest results and key dates such as dividend payment dates.
ShareGift ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It may be especially useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information can be obtained at www.
org The Unclaimed Assets Register The Unclaimed Assets Register is a unique search service that helps individuals to find their lost assets and re-establish contact with financial institutions.
It has a database of unclaimed life policies, pensions, unit trust holdings, and share dividends drawn from many companies and can search for lost assets and entitlements.
The Unclaimed Assets Register charges a small fixed fee for each search, 10% of which goes to charity.
For further information, visit www.
co. uk Headlam Group plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk Registered office Headlam Group plc PO Box 1 Gorsey Lane Coleshill Birmingham B46 1LW Tel: 01675 433000 Fax: 01675 433030 Website www.
com Registration Registered in England and Wales Number 460129
