Headlam Group plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Measurement convention The company and group Financial Statements are prepared on the Headlam Group plc the company is a company incorporated in historical cost basis.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the the UK.
lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The group Financial Statements consolidate those of the company Basis of consolidation and its subsidiaries which together are referred to as the group.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control exists when The companys financial statements present information about the the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial company as a separate entity and not about its group.
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently Both the companys Financial Statements and the groups Financial exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as statements from the date that control commences until the date that adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
On publishing the parent control ceases.
company Financial Statements here together with the group Financial Statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
statement and related notes that form a part of these approved Financial Statements.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements of the group and the Financial Statements of the Accounting estimates and judgements company are set out below.
These policies have been applied Management discussed the development, selection and disclosure of consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
the groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the The principal exception is that, the directors have changed the application of these policies and estimates with the Audit committee.
accounting policies in respect of the following matters: In applying the accounting policies, appropriate estimates have been made in a number of areas and the actual outcome may differ from Amendment to IAS 1: Capital Disclosures.
the position described in the companys and groups Balance Sheet at IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that may give rise to a material adjustment to the The implementation of the changes noted above has not had an carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are effect on either the profit or the net assets of the group and the as follows: company for the period commencing 1 January 2007.
Property, plant and equipment The most notable effect of the changes implemented above is the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated additional disclosure presented in the Financial Statements regarding depreciation and impairment losses.
The group is committed to credit and market risk under IFRS 7. investing in new facilities where existing facilities fail to provide satisfactory customer service in a cost effective manner.
When Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting construction on a new facility is initiated, the existing facility is policies that have significant effect on the Financial Statements and marketed for sale and this action can on occasions give rise to an estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year adverse difference between cost and fair value.
It has been assumed are discussed below.
that at the balance sheet date, cost equates to fair value.
IFRS not yet applied Goodwill impairment The following IFRS is available for early application but have not been The impairment test for goodwill is dependent on the forecasts of applied for by the company or group in these Financial Statements: the cash flows of the cash-generating units and the assumptions relating to growth rate.
No impairment resulted from the annual IFRS 8 Operating Segments: Disclosure applicable for years impairment test for 2007. commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
This will require the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the groups chief operating decision maker in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources to them.
The group plans to adopt it during 2009.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Deferred tax assets To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are Deferred tax assets are recognised at the balance sheet date based classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes on the assumption that there is a high expectation that the asset will the legal form of the companys own shares, the amounts presented be realised in due course.
This assumption is dependent on the in these Financial Statements for called up share capital and share groups ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits.
premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Employee benefits Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as The deficit relating to the groups defined benefit plans is assessed part of financial expenses.
Finance payments associated with financial annually in accordance with IAS 19 and after taking independent instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are actuarial advice.
The amount of the deficit is dependent on plan asset recorded directly in equity.
and liability values and the actuarial assumptions used to determine the deficit.
Assumptions include asset growth rates, pension and salary Investments in debt and equity securities increases, price inflation, discount rate used to measure actuarial Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
Where the consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary Foreign currency undertaking includes shares in the company to which the provisions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign of Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 apply, cost represents the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets nominal value of shares issued, together with the fair value of any and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet additional consideration given and costs.
In the Consolidated Financial date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Statements, the excess of the fair value of the consideration of shares Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in issued over the nominal value is credited to the special reserve.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are Derivative financial instruments and hedging translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Following initial adoption, the group has decided not to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
Consequently, all The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill and movements in the fair value of the hedge are recognised immediately fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at in the income statement, within net financing costs.
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated at an average rate Derivative financial instruments for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange Derivative transactions relate to forward foreign currency contracts rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
used to hedge the groups exposure to currency risks arising from selling and buying activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for subsidiaries are taken directly to the translation reserve.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge released into the income statement upon disposal.
accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the group Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain Financial instruments issued by the group are treated as equity, i. e. or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in forming part of shareholders funds, only to the extent that they meet the income statement.
the following two conditions: The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market a they include no contractual obligations upon the company, or price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted group as the case may be, to deliver cash or other financial assets forward price.
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Property, plant and equipment company or group: and Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
b where the instrument will or may be settled in the companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have no obligation to deliver a variable number of the companys own different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the property, plant and equipment.
company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number or its own equity instruments.
Leases in which the company and the group assume substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified Headlam Group plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued as finance leases.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are Trade and other receivables stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount, present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the discounted if material, less impairment losses.
Debts are provided for lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
on specific receivables in full as soon as they are known to be bad or Lease payments are accounted for as described below.
it becomes apparent that payment is doubtful.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line Inventories basis over their estimated useful lives.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The annual rates applicable are: Cost is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them Freehold and long leasehold properties - 2% to their existing location and condition.
Net realisable value Short leasehold properties - period of lease represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of Motor vehicles - 25% completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and Office and computer equipment - 10% - 33.3% distribution.
Warehouse and production equipment - 10% - 20% Inventory provisions are determined by reference to each individual Goodwill and other intangible assets product and are calculated by assessing the age, condition and Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries quantity of each individual product.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference Cash and cash equivalents between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or part of cash management of both the company and group are which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the separable.
purpose only of the Cash Flow Statements.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised The carrying amounts of the groups assets other than inventories but, tested annually for impairment.
and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that For goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
This is in accordance with IFRS 1.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised in the an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Expenditure on research activities, is recognised in the income Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are statement as an expense as incurred.
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying Other intangible assets that are acquired by the group are stated at amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A cash cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance Calculation of recoverable amount sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they The recoverable amount of the groups receivables carried at are available for use.
The estimated useful lives of customer order amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future books are deemed to be between 1 24 months.
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate, i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair the terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by value less cost to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the groups cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss reserves and reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist and there had been a change in the estimates used to determine the The group operates a UK defined benefit pension plan and a recoverable amount.
defined benefit plan in Switzerland.
In the UK there is no contractual agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets benefit liability between the participating subsidiaries and as such the carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would full deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no employer.
The participating subsidiary companies have recognised a impairment loss had been recognised.
cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a professionally qualified actuary.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less Share-based payment transactions attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, The company and group operate various equity settled share option interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any schemes under the approved and unapproved executive schemes and difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in savings related schemes.
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
For executive share option schemes, the option price may not be less than the mid market value of the groups shares at the time when the Employee benefits options were granted or the nominal value.
The company and the group operate both defined benefit and defined contribution plans, the assets of which are held in Approved independent trustee administered funds.
The pension cost is assessed These share option awards are subject to the movement of the in accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary.
groups earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Defined contribution plans Unapproved Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans These share option awards subject to the movement of the group are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
earnings per share exceeding RPI between by 3% and 5% per annum.
Defined benefit plans The performance is assessed by reference to the groups published The groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans results.
is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is value, and the fair value of any plan assets, at bid price, is deducted.
measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date using employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair AA rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation Headlam Group plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements continued model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the income options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the right to receive payments is established.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefits pension When options are granted to employees of subsidiaries of the plans, less administration expenses of pension plans are recognised in company, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an financial income.
The interest accruing on defined benefit pension plan employee expense in the financial statements of the subsidiary liabilities are recognised in financial expenses.
undertaking together with the capital contribution received.
In the financial statements of the company, the options granted are Taxation recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred corresponding increase in equity.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is Repurchase of share capital recognised in equity.
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, net of any tax effects is recognised as a Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the previous years.
amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the from retained earnings.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax Revenue is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business consideration, net of trade discounts and excludes intra-group sales combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and value added and similar taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods is and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
goods are transferred to the buyer, the amount of revenue can be In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary reliably measured and it is probable that the economic benefits differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
associated with the transaction will flow to the group.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected Operating lease payments manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Finance lease payments asset can be utilised.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance Non-current assets held for sale charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance will be recovered principally through the sale rather than through of the liability.
continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and is highly probable within one year.
Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges on On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal shares classified as liabilities, finance leases, interest receivable on funds groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or hedging instruments as outlined in the accounting policy relating to loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent derivative financial instruments and hedging described above.
