57 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors set out on page 58, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and with regard to the Company Financial Statements, that applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: prepare the Group and Company Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and the Company Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company has a website which contains information on Group activities and published financial results.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of this website.
Information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Statement of Directors Responsibilities
