66 Homeserve plc Homeserve plc 67 Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Executives Review and Financial Review that is cross referred Homeserve plc from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
We have audited the group financial statements of Homeserve In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group received all the information and explanations we require for Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
and Expense and the related notes 1 to 39.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing audited.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or statements of Homeserve plc for the year ended 31 March 2007. form an opinion on the eectiveness of the Groups corporate This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We read the other information contained in the Annual Report audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the as described in the contents section and consider whether it Companys members those matters we are required to state is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the consider the implications for our report if we become aware of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, any further information outside the Annual Report.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of statements in accordance with applicable law and International evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Responsibilities.
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements have been properly prepared in accordance with order to provide us with sucient evidence to give reasonable the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation assurance that the Group financial statements and the part and whether the part of the directors remuneration report of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free described as having been audited has been properly prepared in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration information given in the Directors Report includes that specic Report to be audited.
information presented in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Report & Accounts 2007 AR 2007 back half 20. indd 66 25 5 07 18:48:24
