Independent auditors report on the Company We have audited the parent company In addition we report to you if, in our Opinion financial statements of Galiform plc for opinion, the company has not kept In our opinion: the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2007 proper accounting records, if we have the parent company financial which comprise the Balance Sheet and not received all the information and statements give a true and fair view, the related notes 1 to 9.
These parent explanations we require for our audit, or in accordance with United Kingdom company financial statements have been if information specified by law regarding Generally Accepted Accounting prepared under the accounting policies directors remuneration and other Practice, of the state of the companys set out therein.
affairs as at 29 December 2007 We have reported separately on the group We read the other information contained the parent company financial financial statements of Galiform plc for in the Annual Report as described in statements have been properly the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2007 the contents section and consider prepared in accordance with the and on the information in the directors whether it is consistent with the audited Companies Act 1985: and remuneration report that is described as parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our the information given in the Directors report if we become aware of any Report is consistent with the parent This report is made solely to the apparent misstatements or material company financial statements companys members, as a body, in inconsistencies with the parent company accordance with section 235 of the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Deloitte & Touche LLP Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has do not extend to any further information Chartered Accountants and been undertaken so that we might state outside the Annual Report.
Registered Auditors to the companys members those matters London we are required to state to them in an Basis of audit opinion auditors report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance 6 March 2008 To the fullest extent permitted by law, we with International Standards on do not accept or assume responsibility Auditing UK and Ireland issued by to anyone other than the company and the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the companys members as a body, for includes examination, on a test basis, our audit work, for this report, or for the of evidence relevant to the amounts opinions we have formed.
and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an Respective responsibilities assessment of the significant estimates of directors and auditors and judgements made by the directors The directors responsibilities for in the preparation of the parent company preparing the Annual Report, the financial statements, and of whether the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company financial statements Companys circumstances, consistently in accordance with applicable law and applied and adequately disclosed.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We planned and performed our audit Accounting Practice are set out in the so as to obtain all the information and Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Our responsibility is to audit the sufficient evidence to give reasonable parent company financial statements assurance that the parent company in accordance with relevant legal and financial statements are free from regulatory requirements and International material misstatement, whether caused Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated We report to you our opinion as to the overall adequacy of the presentation whether the parent company financial of information in the parent company statements give a true and fair view and financial statements.
whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
indd 98 26 3 08 10:34:28 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 Parent company and principal subsidiary undertakings at 29 December 2007 Country of registration or incorporation Parent company Galiform plc England and Wales Principal subsidiary undertakings Intermediate holding company: Galiform Holdings Limited formerly Orchardlight Limited England and Wales Trading: Howden Joinery Limited England and Wales Houdan Menuiseries SA France Supply: Howden Kitchens Limited England and Wales Property management: Howden Joinery Properties Limited England and Wales Howden Kitchens Properties Limited England and Wales Finance: Southon Insurance Company Limited Guernsey Administration and employee services: Galiform Corporate Services Limited England and Wales Group People Services Limited England and Wales Joint venture Howden Kitchens Asia Limited Hong Kong The Company ultimately owns 100% of the ordinary share capital of all of the above mentioned companies except the joint venture, of which it owns 50%.
The investment in the companies marked with an asterisk are owned directly by the Company.
We have taken advantage of the exemption provided in section 231 5 a of the Companies Act 1985 for those undertakings whose financial positions do not principally affect figures in the Company's individual accounts or the Group accounts.
indd 99 26 3 08 10:34:28 Notes to the company balance sheet the financial statements
