Notes to the financial statements 1 General information on the Company and the Group Imperial Energy Corporation plc the Company, or together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is 6-8 York Place, Leeds, LS1 2DS.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are an independent oil and gas exploration, development and production company focused in Russia and Kazakhstan.
2 Accounting policies and presentation of financial statements a Basis of preparation The financial statements has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements has been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for share based payment charges and the measurement of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are presented in the United Stated Dollar US dollar or US$, the functional currency of the Company, as the majority of the Companys operations are conducted in US dollars and management have used the US dollar accounts to manage the Groups financial risks and exposures.
The functional currency of the Russian subsidiaries is the Russian rouble and the functional currency of the Kazakh subsidiary is the Kazakh tenge.
During the year, the Company and the Group adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
This resulted in certain additional disclosures which are provided in the notes to the financial statements.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - amendment The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial information of the Company except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combinations see below and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
c Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If, after reassessment, the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
