Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Decommissioning The Group has potential decommissioning obligations in respect of its interests in Russia and Kazakhstan.
The extent to which a provision is required in respect of these potential obligations depends, inter alia, on the legal requirements at the time of decommissioning, the cost and timing of any necessary decommissioning works, and the discount rate to be applied to such costs.
Operating in the CIS All of the Groups business is conducted in the CIS through its investment in subsidiaries operating in the oil and gas industry.
These operations, and those of other similar companies, are subject to the economic, political and regulatory uncertainties prevailing in the region.
The legislation regarding foreign currency transactions and taxation in the region is constantly evolving and many new tax and foreign currency laws and related regulations are not always clearly written and their interpretation is subject to the opinions of the local tax inspectors.
Similarly the regions laws and regulations concerning environmental assessments and clean-ups continue to evolve.
As they do, companies operating in the region may incur substantial costs in the future relating to past and current operations.
3 Total revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2007 2006 $000 $000 Oil sales 19,928 3,129 Investment revenue 1,174 4,431 21,102 7,560 4 Business and geographical segments The Group has one principal business activity being oil and gas exploration and production.
Revenue by destination does not materially differ from revenue by origin.
There are no inter-segment sales.
Geographical segments form the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
