Notes to the financial statements 1 General information on the Company and the Group Imperial Energy Corporation plc the Company, or together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is 6-8 York Place, Leeds, LS1 2DS.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are an independent oil and gas exploration, development and production company focused in Russia and Kazakhstan.
2 Accounting policies and presentation of financial statements a Basis of preparation The financial statements has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements has been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for share based payment charges and the measurement of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are presented in the United Stated Dollar US dollar or US$, the functional currency of the Company, as the majority of the Companys operations are conducted in US dollars and management have used the US dollar accounts to manage the Groups financial risks and exposures.
The functional currency of the Russian subsidiaries is the Russian rouble and the functional currency of the Kazakh subsidiary is the Kazakh tenge.
During the year, the Company and the Group adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
This resulted in certain additional disclosures which are provided in the notes to the financial statements.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - amendment The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial information of the Company except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combinations see below and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
c Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If, after reassessment, the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
d Commercial reserves Commercial reserves are proven and probable 2P oil reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrates with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially viable.
There should be a 50 percent statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50 percent statistical probability that it will be less.
e Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
To the extent that revenue arises from test production during an evaluation programme, an amount is charged from exploration and evaluation costs to the cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
f Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are measured in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair values that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rate at the date of transaction is used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Exchange differences that arise on long term intra-Group loans are recognised in the income statement in the individual accounts of each group company.
On consolidation they are transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
g Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
h Oil exploration and evaluation expenditure The Group follows the full-cost method of accounting, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
Under the full cost method of accounting, expenditures incurred in connection with the acquisition, exploration and evaluation of oil and gas assets E&E costs, including directly attributable overheads are capitalised in separate geographical cost pools.
Cost pools are established on the basis of geographical area having regard to the operational and financial organisation of the Group.
The Group currently has two cost pools: Tomsk Region and Kostanai province.
E&E costs are initially capitalised within intangible non-current assets.
Such E&E costs may include costs of licence acquisition, technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, but do not include costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area, which are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classified within tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment development and production assets.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in exploration and evaluation, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration and evaluation licence prospect are not depreciated and, absent any impairment being recognised see below, are carried forward until the conclusion of the appraisal programme and determination as to whether commercial reserves exist.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets is then reclassified as development and production assets within property, plant and equipment.
Intangible E&E assets that relate to E&E activities that are determined not to have resulted in the discovery of commercial reserves remain capitalised as intangible E&E assets at cost less accumulated amortisation, subject to meeting a pool-wide impairment test as set out below.
Such E&E assets are amortised on a unit of production basis over the life of the commercial reserves of the pool to which they relate.
E&E assets are assessed for impairment by reference to IFRS 6 when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount.
Where the E&E assets concerned fall within a geographic pool where the Group has tangible oil and gas assets with commercial proven and probable reserves, the E&E assets are tested for impairment together with all cash generating units and related tangible and intangible assets, associated with that cost pool.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves based upon managements expectation of future oil prices and future costs.
Any identified impairment is charged to the income statement.
Where the E&E assets to be tested fall outside the scope of any established cost pool, the E&E assets concerned will be tested for impairment separately and, where determined to be impaired, will be written off.
i Oil development and production Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field basis and represent the costs of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined above.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development are dealt with prospectively.
The net book values of producing assets are depreciated on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method by reference to the ratio of production in the period to the related commercial reserves of the field, taking into account estimated future development expenditures at current prices necessary to bring those reserves into production.
The minimum amount of oil inventory required to be maintained in the Groups oil pipelines in order for them to operate efficiently linefill is classified as part of property, plant and equipment because it is necessary to bring the property, plant and equipment to its required operating condition.
Linefill is recognised at cost and is subject to depreciation to estimated residual value.
An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each field are interdependent.
Proceeds from the disposal of oil and gas assets both intangible and tangible are credited against the relevant cost centres.
Any overall surplus arising in a cost centre is credited to the income statement.
j Decommissioning Where a material liability for the removal of production facilities and site restoration at the end of the productive life of a field exists, a provision for decommissioning is recognised.
The decommissioning provision recognised is the net present value of the Groups share of estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
A tangible fixed asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created, included as part of the relevant property, plant and equipment and is depreciated on a unit of production basis in accordance with the Groups policy for depletion and depreciation of tangible non-current oil and gas assets.
Changes in estimates are recognised prospectively, with corresponding adjustments to the provision and the associated fixed asset.
Period charges for changes in the net present value of the decommissioning provision arising from discounting are included in finance costs.
The effects of changes in estimates on the unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively over the estimated remaining proven and probable reserves of each pool.
k Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of these assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
l Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
m Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, other than oil and gas assets, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Buildings 4% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 30% Motor vehicles 25% n Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
o Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
p Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at initial fair value which equals nominal value, less allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade receivables are recognised when invoiced.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank deposits Bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months are held as a separate category of current asset and are presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at cost.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Compound instruments The component parts of compound instruments issued by the Group are classified separately as financial liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible instrument.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished upon conversion or at the instruments maturity date.
The equity component is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole.
This is recognised and included in equity, net of income tax effects, and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible loan notes based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses certain derivative instruments to provide effective economic hedges under the Groups policies when necessary.
However, the Group has not elected to apply hedge accounting to any of its derivative instruments.
Accordingly, changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Provisions The provision for decommissioning is based on the net present value of the Groups share of the expenditure which is expected to be incurred at the end of the producing life of each field currently estimated to be 24 years in the removal and decommissioning of the facilities currently in place.
q Share-based payments The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value of such share-based payments is measured by use of a Stochastic model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
r Share issue expenses and share premium account Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issues of share capital.
s Critical accounting judgements and estimates in applying the Groups accounting policies Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management have made the following judgements that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Oil and gas assets As detailed in note 2 h, under the full cost method of accounting for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, such costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to appropriate cost pools, and are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable value.
This assessment involves judgement as to i the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be determined, and ii future revenues and costs pertaining to any wider cost pool with which the asset in question is associated, and iii the discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purpose of deriving a recoverable value.
Further, note 2 h describes the Groups policy regarding the reclassification of intangible assets to tangible assets.
Management considers the appropriateness of asset classification at least annually.
Convertible bonds Note 2 p sets out the Groups accounting policy on convertible bonds.
Management assesses the fair value of the liability component at issue and reviews the appropriateness of the amortisation period at lease annually.
Note 2 k describes the nature of the costs that the Group capitalises which includes applicable borrowing costs that are directly attributable to qualifying assets as defined in IAS 23 Borrowing Costs IAS 23.
Management has considered the definition of qualifying assets in IAS 23 and has determined that all expenditure incurred in respect of the Groups E&E assets currently meets the definition.
Consequently, the interest associated with capital expenditure on the Groups E&E assets has been capitalised.
Recoverability of Russian VAT In common with other oil and gas companies operating in Russia, the Group has recognised the potential difficulties associated with recovering certain Russian Value Added Tax paid in previous years.
In the light of this uncertainty, judgements have been made as to the extent of provision required against VAT receivables.
