Financial Statements Principal Subsidiaries The principal wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are unlisted, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Sinclair Collis Limited Cigarette vending in the UK Incorporated overseas Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Commonwealth Brands Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the United States of America Dunkerquoise des Blends S. A. France Tobacco processing in France Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Gunnar Stenberg AS, Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway Imperial Tobacco Asia Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco CR s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Imperial Tobacco France S. A. S. France Marketing of tobacco products in France Imperial Tobacco Hellas S. A. Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece Imperial Tobacco Italy Srl, Italy Marketing of tobacco products in Italy Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmaz Kft, Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Overseas B. V. the Netherlands Finance company Imperial Tobacco Sigara five Tutunculuck Sanayi five Ticaret A. S. Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A. S. Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis five Pazarlama A. S. Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany and export of tobacco products Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia OOO Reemtsma, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Tobaccor S. A. S. France Holding investments in subsidiary companies Van Nelle Canada Limited, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands www.
com 117 Financial Statements Principal Subsidiaries continued All of the wholly owned subsidiaries were held throughout the year except for Commonwealth Brands Inc which was acquired on 2 April 2007 note 24 and Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited which was incorporated on 6 March 2007.
The principal partly owned subsidiaries of the Group, held throughout the year, are shown below.
All are unlisted unless otherwise indicated.
Incorporated overseas Percentage 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.9 products in Poland Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8 Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 98.7 products in Kyrgyzstan Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 43.0 products in Sweden 2 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A.
Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 74.1 products in the Ivory Coast Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products 76.5 in Slovenia Tutunski Kombinat AD, Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.1 products in Macedonia v 1 The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. in which the Group holds a 99% interest.
2 Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
