Directors Report: Business Review Understanding our operating environment We have operated profitably in a highly regulated environment for many years.
Tobacco Regulation Smoking in Public Places hotels and tobacconists a derogation Regulatory pressures on the industry In a number of the markets and regions until 1 January 2008. have continued during 2007.
Governments in which we operate the debate on the In Germany, the Governments ban around the world are pursuing in varying introduction of increased restrictions on on smoking in all government buildings, degrees the further regulation of tobacco smoking in public places and the work whilst allowing for the provision of separate products, including restrictions affecting place has intensied.
smoking areas, as well as a total ban the manufacture, development, sale, on public transport, came into effect on Our View distribution, marketing and advertising 1 September 2007.
Legislation for hospitality We support sensible regulation but believe of tobacco products.
venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants that bans on smoking in public places are Developments in the areas of smoking in continues to be debated at the Federal disproportionate and unnecessary.
public places, the first global tobacco treaty, State level, with the implementation of further Our experience in markets where smoking pictorial health warnings, excise duty and restrictions planned in the coming months.
restrictions or total bans are in place supports tobacco-related litigation are outlined below.
In the Australian States of Victoria, New our view on the impact of this legislation.
In addition, there have been other South Wales and the Australian Capital Smokers will continue to smoke, and regulatory developments during the year Territory further public smoking restrictions while there may be an initial dip in cigarette including further restrictions on product have come into effect.
consumption, this tends to diminish over time.
display, new reporting formats for the We believe that concerns about smoking increased disclosure of tobacco ingredients, Framework Convention on in public places can be resolved through and, debate in the EU and Australia on Tobacco Control common sense and courtesy and by the testing and standards of lower ignition The World Health Organisations WHO introducing practical solutions such as propensity cigarettes that are currently Framework Convention on Tobacco Control well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking available throughout Canada and in FCTC took effect on 27 February 2005 areas into work places, restaurants and several US states.
and by the end of September 2007 had other public places.
been ratied by 151 countries as well as the EU.
The FCTC is the first global tobacco 2007 Update treaty that seeks to regulate tobacco On 30 January 2007, the EU Commission products in a number of areas including launched a Green Paper seeking views on advertising, labelling, product testing and the the scope of measures to regulate public submission of ingredient information as well smoking.
The Green Paper presents five as product traceability.
The FCTC also policy options including exemptions for certain addresses tobacco taxation and calls for venues, for example restaurants and bars.
tightened legislation to combat the illicit In June 2007, the European Parliament trade in tobacco products.
released its own draft report on the Green Paper calling on the Commission to present Our View a proposal by 2008 for a comprehensive We agree with many aspects of the ban in all enclosed work places, catering convention, most notably the need to prevent establishments, public buildings and youth smoking and the urgent need to stamp transport within the EU.
out both smuggling and counterfeiting of The UK now has a comprehensive ban on tobacco products.
However, it is our belief Alison Cooper smoking in public places and work places that some of the FCTC provisions seek to Corporate Development Director including bars, restaurants and private go beyond reasonable objectives and impose member clubs.
Following the introduction a supranational regulatory regime covering We have continued our long of restrictions in Scotland in March 2006, a wide range of areas better addressed by standing approach of constructive Wales followed on 2 April 2007, Northern national regulators, who are familiar with engagement with the authorities in Ireland on 30 April 2007 and England on local conditions.
Moreover, it gives the WHO the markets in which we operate.
1 July 2007. authority to establish rules in areas outside its The French Government published a core competence areas that fall under the decree in November 2006 banning smoking jurisdiction of other bodies such as the World For more information visit www.
com in public places from 1 February 2007, Trade Organisation or the International but giving bars, restaurants, nightclubs, Standards Organisation.
com 9 Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 2007 Update Excise Duty Tobacco-Related Litigation The second Conference of Parties all We are not facing any active tobaccoTobacco products are subject to excise duty countries which have ratied the FCTC related litigation in the UK.
which, in most markets in which we operate, took place in July 2007.
During the meeting, In the Republic of Ireland, the number of represents a substantial percentage of the the draft guideline on pr otection from tobacco-related claims has fallen from 307 retail price.
High taxes and international Environmental Tobacco Smoke Article 8 in 1997, to 11.
Ten of these claims are disparities in rates of excise duty charged on was unanimously adopted and it was decided subject to dismissal motions.
The other tobacco products have created an environment that further work will be conducted on claim is inactive.
The dismissal motion in in which both illegal cross-border trading and product regulation and illicit trade.
New respect of one claimant was heard by counterfeiting have proliferated.
work agreed includes the development of the Dublin High Court in November and Our View guidelines in the following areas: advertising December 2006.
In April 2007, the court and sponsorship, packaging and labelling, We remain totally opposed to illegal crossruled that this claim should be dismissed.
smoking cessation, tobacco industry border trading and counterfeiting of tobacco This decision has been appealed and the interference and education.
We are committed to working with dismissal motions in respect of the nine work for a protocol that would focus solely government authorities and international other active claims have been stayed on cross-border advertising has been organisations around the world to counter pending the appeal.
No date has been suspended following the decision for a the illicit trade in tobacco products.
set for the appeal hearing.
comprehensive guideline on advertising, We are no longer facing any claims in 2007 Update sponsorship and promotion.
In November 2006, we received a In general, levels of excise duty have been favourable judgment in a case brought against steadily increasing in recent years in a number Pictorial Health Warnings us by an individual.
Also in November 2006, of markets in which we operate and this Pictorial health warnings are mandatory in a an appeal court upheld the dismissal in trend continued in EU Member States in number of countries including Canada, Brazil, March 2006 of a separate individual case.
Nearly all the Member States that Neither claimant has appealed these decisions countries around the world are considering joined the EU in May 2004 and January and they are now out of time to do so.
the use of pictorial health warnings.
2007 have continued to implement excise Despite threats to do so, no proceedings duty increases as they move towards the have been commenced against us in Our View minimum EU level.
We do not believe that pictorial health In the European Union, the EU Tobacco Following our acquisition of warnings are necessary.
It is our view that Excise Tax Directive contains a provision for such warnings are designed solely to shock Commonwealth Brands in April 2007, it to be evaluated every four years.
As part and stigmatise smokers, and we disagree we are currently facing two claims brought of the current review a technical consultation with their use.
We believe that pictorial health by individuals in the United States of America, warnings make no overall contribution to the document was published on 30 March 2007 one of which has been dismissed but could public awareness of the risks associated seeking overall excise duty simplication still theoretically be appealed: the other is with smoking, which are already well known.
and a narrowing of ne cut and cigarette inactive and has been for some time.
A We believe that we are entitled to use our third case against Commonwealth Brands excise duty.
The European Commission is packaging to enable our consumers to was dismissed in June 2007 and cannot expected to issue a formal report, with rm distinguish our products from those of be appealed.
This is consistent with the proposals to amend the minimum levels of our competitors.
considerable improvements we have excise duty relating to tobacco, by the end seen in the US litigation environment.
Discussions at Member State, 2007 Update To date, no judgment has been entered Belgium was the first EU Member State to European Parliament and European Council against Imperial Tobacco and no action adopt legislation requiring pictorial health level are expected to follow in 2008.
The has been settled in favour of a claimant warnings to be introduced for cigarettes.
new EU Tobacco Excise Tax Directive is in any tobacco-related litigation involving Following our challenge to the Belgian then expected to be adopted in 2009, with Imperial Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
regulations, the Ministry of Health changed implementation in the period 2010 2012.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its the regulations and now requires 14 pictorial We have continued to work with customs lawyers that it has meritorious defences to health warnings, instead of the 42 originally authorities in a number of countries around the legal proceedings in which damages are proposed.
Products bearing the new the world to counter the illicit trade in tobacco health warnings appeared on shelves sought for alleged tobacco-related health products.
We have now signed formal from early 2007. effects.
We will continue to vigorously Memoranda of Understanding MoU in The UK Government has announced that contest all such litigation against us.
a number of countries including the UK, from October 2008 pictorial health warnings Ireland, Turkey and China, with similar will be required on all tobacco product packs.
industry wide co-operation agreements In New Zealand, a health warning and in Australia and the Ukraine.
corresponding graphic must cover 30 per cent of the front and 90 per cent of the back of cigarette packs from February 2008.
In Taiwan, pictorial health warning legislation is expected to take effect from January 2009.
Other countries considering the use of pictorial health warnings include Latvia, Slovakia, Switzerland and the Republic of Ireland.
