Supplementary Information Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Earnings per share diluted MYO Adjusted profit after tax attributable to the As for Basic earnings per share except Make your own: tobacco which is made equity holders of the Company divided by that the weighted average number of into a cigarette using a tube machine and the weighted average number of shares in shares includes the weighted average lter tubes.
issue during the period excluding shares number of shares that would be issued Net Revenue held to satisfy employee share schemes and on conversion of all the dilutive potential Net revenue comprises revenue less shares purchased by the Company and held ordinary shares arising from rights under duty and similar items.
Revenue is as as Treasury shares.
Adjusted measures Effective tax rate Duty and similar items includes tobacco Management believes that reporting The tax charge in the income statement duty and other governmental levies which adjusted measures provides a better as a percentage of profit before taxation.
have characteristics similar to duty, such comparison of business performance and as those due in the United States under Enterprise value EV reects the way in which the business is the Master Settlement Agreement and Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Accordingly, adjusted measures Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act.
Ex dividend date of profit from operations, net finance costs, OTP The date from which shares are traded profit before tax, taxation and earnings Other tobacco products ne cut tobacco, without the right to the most recently per share exclude, where applicable, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff and snus.
amortisation of acquired trademarks, Private label Framework Convention on Tobacco restructuring costs, retirement benets net An exclusive retailer or distributor brand Control nancing income, fair value gains and losses usually in the low-price segment.
The World Health Organisations Framework on derivative financial instruments in respect Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC is Productivity of commercially effective hedges and related the first global tobacco treaty that seeks to Productivity is measured as factory output taxation effects.
The term adjusted is not a regulate tobacco products.
dened term under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not Fine cut tobacco RYO be comparable with similarly titled Loose tobacco which is used with rolling Roll your own: tobacco which is used with measures reported by other companies.
papers or lter tubes including make your rolling papers to hand make cigarettes.
Adjusted operating margin Singles Make Your Own The adjusted profit from operations divided FMC Pre-rolled cartridges of tobacco that are by net revenue.
inserted into separately sold cigarette paper tubes with lters using a special Adjusted profit from operations ISO device resembling a pen.
profit from operations adjusted for The International Organisation for amortisation of acquired trademarks, Standardisation, widely known as ISO, Snus restructuring costs and fair value gains is an international standard-setting body Snus is a moist oral tobacco product.
It and losses on derivative financial comprised of representatives from various is manufactured and consumed primarily instruments used to commercially hedge national standards organisations.
It in Sweden and Norway investments in foreign operations.
promulgates world wide industrial Total shareholder return and commercial standards.
Amortisation The total investment gain to shareholders, A systematic charge to the income Market capitalisation resulting from the movement in the share statement to write off the value of intangible The market price of a share multiplied by price and assuming dividends are assets with nite lives over their useful lives.
the number of shares in issue.
Cash conversion rate Market share Travel Retail Cash conversion is calculated as cash ow Market share represents our best estimate Products made available in a market from operations before tax payments less of the volumes of our brands sold as a principally for travelling consumers.
net capital expenditure relating to property, percentage of total market volumes during Volumes plant and equipment and software as a the reporting period.
We use latest monthly Our volume KPI represents the number percentage of adjusted profit from data only where the share or the average of units sold in the period operations.
would be misleading for example if market Weighted average cost of capital entry or a significant product launch has Earnings per share basic The weighted average of the costs of taken place part way through the reporting profit attributable to equity holders of the various types of capital that finance a period.
All market shares are Imperial Company divided by the weighted average company or a project.
Capital would Tobacco best estimates based on the number of shares in issue during the period generally include a mix of debt and equity.
most appropriate independent market excluding shares held to satisfy employee volume data available.
share schemes and shares purchased by the Company and held as Treasury shares.
120 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 For more information visit: www.
Access the latest shareholder information Updates via email Latest share price Financial calendar RSS news feeds Corporate governance 2.
View archive information Investor library Company reports Company presentations Results and trading updates 4.
Shareholder you think services Your feedback Register online Investor contacts Shareview Investor glossary Common questions Imperial Tobacco Group PLC PO Box 244 Southville Bristol BS99 7UJ Tel: 44 0 117 963 6636 Email: info@uk.
com Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed in England by Butler and Tanner.
Registered Office Imperial Tobacco Group PLC PO Box 244 Upton Road Bristol BS99 7UJ UK The paper in this report is made from 100% www.
com post-consumer recycled waste Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007 What does it take to deliver sustainable shareholder value?
Financial Highlights 2007 % change 2006 Cigarette volumes bn cigarettes 200.3 7% 186.9 Fine cut tobacco volumes tonnes 24,450 4% 25,500 In s million 2007 % change 2006 Revenue 12,344 6% 11,676 Net revenue 3,280 4% 3,162 Profit from operations 1,418 8% 1,311 Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 9% 1,356 Profit before tax 1,237 6% 1,168 In pence 2007 % change 2006 Basic earnings per share 134.3 10% 122.2 Adjusted earnings per share 136.7 12% 122.2 Diluted earnings per share 133.7 10% 121.6 Dividend per share 69.5 12% 62.0 Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a better comparison of business performance and reects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, as outlined in our accounting policy note, adjusted measures of profit from operations, net finance costs, profit before tax, taxation and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired trademarks, restructuring costs, retirement benets net nancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges and related taxation effects.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported profit from operations are included within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported finance costs in note 3, adjusted and reported taxation in note 4, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 6.
The adjusted measures in this report are not dened terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
2 Business Overview 20 United States Summary Financial Statements 4 Chairmans Statement 22 Rest of the World 42 Consolidated Income Statement 6 Chief Executives Strategic Review 23 Manufacturing 43 Consolidated Balance Sheet 8 World Tobacco Market Context 25 Corporate Responsibility 44 Consolidated Statement of 9 Understanding Our Recognised Income and Expense Summary Statutory Reports Operating Environment Consolidated Cash Flow 28 Board of Directors 11 A Strategy that Delivers Globally Statement 30 Summary Directors Report 12 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 45 Notes to the summary financial 31 Independent Auditors Report 13 Measuring our Performance statements to the Members 14 Financial Review of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Supplementary Information 17 United Kingdom 32 Summary Corporate 51 Shareholder Information 18 Germany Governance Report 53 Principal Subsidiaries 19 Rest of Western Europe 55 Index 56 Glossary We are delivering sustainable shareholder value through A well balanced Clear direction A strategy for business growth p2 p4 p6 Financial Strong brands International strength expansion p14 p16 p21 Cost efficiency A responsible The right team approach p24 p25 p28 www.
com 1 Business Overview A well balanced business Imperial Tobacco is the worlds fourth largest international tobacco company, which manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Our Group performance Adjusted Earnings Per Share pence Dividend Per Share pence Adjusted profit from Operations million 69.5p 1,475m 136.7p 12% on 2006 9% on 2006 12% on 2006 Net revenue by region % Our manufacturing sites United Kingdom 26.7% Germany 16.0% Rest of Western Europe 19.3% United States 3.6% Rest of the World 34.4% Adjusted profit from operations by region % Manufacturing location Our manufacturing assets United Kingdom 38.3% 22 6 3 Germany 16.1% Rest of Western Europe 22.1% Cigarette factories Other tobacco Rolling papers United States 3.5% product factories and tubes factories Rest of the World 20.0% Our key international brands 2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Overview Highlights Contribution to Group United Kingdom Net revenue Overall cigarette market share up at 46.4 per cent In the UK we continue to build on our 876m Lambert & Butler, UKs best selling market leadership position in cigarettes, 2006: 835m cigarette brand up at 16.6 per cent fine cut tobacco and rolling papers.
UKs number two brand, Richmond, Adjusted profit from operations The UK is a mature market which has up at 15.7 per cent experienced moderate market declines 564m in recent years.
2006: 506m Germany Net revenue Our cigarette market share grew to 21.3 per cent We are growing our cigarette share in 524m JPS market share up at 6.4 per cent Germany and have a leading position 2006: 575m Davidoff in the premium sector in fine cut tobacco.
Market dynamics in remained broadly stable at 1.0 per cent Adjusted profit from operations Germany have been driven by consumer of the cigarette market migration from the discontinued make 238m your own Singles product.
2006: 270m Rest of Western Europe Net revenue Our cigarette market share increased in a number of countries We continue to build on our position in 635m Davidoff and West have grown volumes this region which comprises a number 2006: 637m reinforcing their strong regional positions of highly competitive mature markets Adjusted profit from operations In fine cut tobacco, the initiatives we that are becoming more regulated.
have undertaken have started to deliver some market share improvements 326m 2006: 324m United States Net revenue Returns on investment in the first six months exceeded our weighted We made a significant move into the US average cost of capital 117m tobacco market with the acquisition of Our cigarette market share was 3.7 per 2006: 14m Commonwealth Brands in April 2007. cent of the total cigarette market and Adjusted profit from operations We believe we are well positioned to 13.4 per cent of the discount sector develop our business in the US with Existing rolling papers and tubes 52m our versatile, multi-product portfolio volumes up by 13 per cent and 2006: 4m and an enhanced platform front which 8 per cent respectively to launch our brands and products.
Rest of the World Net revenue The Rest of the World region is diverse with over 100 countries, with different There are considerable opportunities 1,128m dynamics, opportunities and challenges to expand our business and grow our 2006: 1,101m We have grown our cigarette volumes, brands and profits in our Rest of the and delivered market share improvements Adjusted profit from operations World region.
This region is a key area in many markets in the region of future investment for the Group.
com 3 Chairmans Statement Clear direction In this, my first year as Chairman, I am delighted to be reporting another record set of results.
have been efficiently and effectively integrated and delivered significant value for our shareholders.
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands was completed in April 2007, offering us considerable opportunities to expand into this highly profitable market.
In July, we announced a proposed cash offer for Altadis of 50 per share, and are delighted that our shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposed acquisition at our EGM in August 2007.
We expect the transaction to complete in January 2008.
Our geographic prole includes regions offering important opportunities for long term sustainable growth combined with Iain Napier core market strengths.
We are focused on Chairman expanding our current geographic prole to deliver further profitable volume growth, with We remain committed to creating value for expansion during the year in the Americas, our shareholders and, as a result of our Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
continued and consistent focus on this We have grown cigarette market shares strategy, we have delivered another record within every region and this performance is operational and financial performance.
complemented by our world leadership in ne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes.
Earnings and Dividends We have continued to focus on cost This year has been dened by growth, control throughout every aspect of our both acquisition-led and through organic business, with further cost savings achieved developments in new and existing markets.
We have effectively We have continued our focus on costs and used our cash by investing appropriately in the effective management of the cash we acquisitions, in market developments generate.
This successful combination has particularly in our Rest of the World and delivered an increase in adjusted earnings Rest of Western Europe regions and in per share of 12 per cent to 136.7 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 134.3 pence 2006: 122.2 pence.
Corporate Governance The Board recommends a final dividend Shareholders, customers, suppliers, of 48.5 pence per share, bringing the total employees and society in general expect dividend for the year to 69.5 pence, up 12 1 Imperial Tobacco to act responsibly and to per cent on 2006 2006: 62.0 pence.
high standards at all times.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate A Year of Progress Governance.
We have in place a set of Successful acquisitions have been a governance structures and practices designed hallmark of Imperial Tobacco over the last to ensure that the Group is run responsibly decade.
Since our listing on the London in the best interests of its shareholders.
Stock Exchange, we have invested 6.2 Further information is available on pages billion in acquisitions, in accordance with 31 to 41 of this report.
our strategic and financial criteria.
These 1 If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 January 2008.
4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Business Review Total Shareholder Return Over the past three years our total shareholder return was 106 per cent and we have out performed the FTSE All-Share Index by 74 per cent.
225 200 175 150 125 100 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Imperial Tobacco Total Shareholder Return is p13 FTSE All-Share index a Key Performance Indicator Derek Bonham private reasons.
David Cresswell, We were deeply saddened by the death Manufacturing Director, will retire at the of Derek Bonham, our former Chairman, end of December 2007.
I would like to in September 2007.
Derek worked tirelessly express my sincere thanks to them both as our Chairman, guiding Imperial Tobacco for their outstanding contribution to the through its demerger from Hanson, its success of the Company during their listing as an independent company and long service.
through its subsequent transformation Colin Day resigned as a Non-Executive into the worlds fourth largest international Director as a consequence of his overall tobacco company.
business commitments in February 2007 and, as previously announced, Vice Board Changes Chairman Anthony Alexander will retire We regularly review the composition of from the Board at the Annual General the Board to ensure it continues to provide Meeting in January 2008. the most effective leadership for the Groups Finally I thank all our employees for their development as well as planned and contribution to these strong results.
ambition is to continue to build on our Reecting our ongoing focus on the excellent track record and keep Imperial strategic and profitable development of Tobacco performing successfully.
We have the people, the brands and the drive the business, I was delighted to welcome to succeed.
Alison Cooper as Corporate Development Director in July 2007.
To ensure the continued appropriate balance of the Board, Michael Herlihy and Mark Williamson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, also in July 2007.
We reluctantly accepted the resignation Iain Napier of Frank Rogerson as Corporate Affairs Chairman Director in July 2007 for personal and www.
com 5 Chief Executives Strategic Review A strategy for growth It has been another record year for Imperial Tobacco with further growth in cigarette volumes, cigarette market share gains within all regions and excellent performances from our key brands.
National Association of Attorneys General.
We have nalised our plans for the development of our own brands and are in a position to begin their rollout once we have completed all aspects of becoming a participating manufacturer in the Master Settlement Agreement.
In our manufacturing operations, our productivity increased by 7 per cent demonstrating the excellent progress we continue to make with our ongoing business efficiency and simplication strategies.
Altadis In regard to our proposed acquisition of Altadis, we received European Commission clearance in October 2007, subject to the Gareth Davis enlarged Group divesting a small number of Chief Executive ne cut and pipe tobacco and cigar brands Performance Overview in certain European markets.
As previously Our cigarette volumes were up by 7 per cent highlighted this will not materially affect the with key growth areas including Central and operational and financial performance of the Eastern Europe, Germany and Asia together enlarged Group.
We expect approval of with six months contribution from the our offer by the CNMV, the Spanish regulator, Commonwealth Brands business.
soon and expect to complete the deal in Cigarette market shares increased in our January 2008.
The rights issue, which is core markets of the UK and Germany as well part nancing the acquisition, will occur as in Western Europe, Central and Eastern before 18 July 2008.
Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our successful brand strategy has Regulation ensured continued positive developments We have a long history of co-operation for our key brands Davidoff, West and JPS, with authorities in the markets in which we growing volumes by 5 per cent, 9 per cent operate and we remain committed to working and 18 per cent respectively.
Since our constructively with governments and regulatory acquisition of the Davidoff cigarette trademark bodies worldwide.
We believe that sound, in September 2006, we have launched reasonable and practicable regulation, Davidoff in several new markets and developed in consultation with the tobacco introduced a number of successful brand industry, is the most effective approach.
variants, all contributing to our volume and market share gains.
Our Commitment to Corporate As well as developments in our existing Responsibility markets, the acquisition of Commonwealth In recent years, we have built a strong Brands has given us a rm foothold in the framework in which we manage our profitable US market.
We are extremely Corporate Responsibility activities, ensuring pleased with its early performance, with that we live up to the high standards we set returns on investment in the first six months for ourselves and the high expectations our exceeding our weighted average cost of stakeholders have of us.
Our success to date capital.
Our Master Settlement Agreement has been reected in several performance application is progressing and we expect improvements which will be reported in to complete our application in a few weeks detail in our Corporate Responsibility following constructive dialogue with the Review published in December.
6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Proposed Acquisition of Altadis Transaction Summary able to generate annual operational combination which would strengthen efficiencies of approximately 300 million.
our position as the worlds fourth On 18 July 2007, we made a proposed largest international tobacco company.
cash offer for the whole of Altadis at The proposed acquisition will initially The proposed acquisition meets 50 per share.
This gave an equity be nanced through new debt facilities our strict acquisition criteria, providing value of 12.6 billion or 8.5 billion.
When and an equity bridge loan, which will us with a significant enhancement to be renanced, in part, by a rights issue existing net debt and minorities are our operating platform and scale, included, it represented an enterprise following completion of the deal.
The with increased presence in profitable value of 16.2 billion or 11.0 billion.
rights issue will occur before 18 July mature markets as well as improved 2008, and will be sized to ensure we Altadis Board considers that this is opportunities in emerging markets.
an attractive offer and that, in the absence issue the minimum amount of equity The enlarged Group will also have of a competing offer at a higher price needed to maintain an investment stronger and more diversied brand grade credit rating, to which we being led with the Spanish regulator, and product portfolios.
the Altadis Board will recommend it remain committed.
Combined with the revenue benets to their shareholders.
and substantial cost savings we expect We see revenue benets and Strategic Rationale to achieve, we believe this is an excellent substantial cost savings arising from Altadis and Imperial Tobacco are deal that will create significant value the enlarged Group and expect to be a great strategic t, a powerful for shareholders.
Date Event 18 July 2007 Imperial Tobacco made a proposed cash offer of 50 per share to acquire Altadis 13 August 2007 Extraordinary General Meeting: 99.82% of voting Imperial Tobacco shareholders were in favour of the proposed acquisition August 2007 US Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust clearance received October 2007 European Commission merger clearance received November 2007 Expected approval of the proposed offer by the CNMV Spanish regulator January 2008 Expected completion of the proposed acquisition Before 18 July 2008 Rights issue For more information visit www.
com Outlook I believe that the proposed acquisition of Altadis will be a great strategic t that will Looking ahead, we are focused on long term sustainable growth across strengthen our position as the worlds fourth the business and remain committed to largest international tobacco company, with our strategy of growing our operations revenue benets and substantial cost organically and through acquisitions.
savings arising from the enlarged Group.
We have a growing geographic base on In conclusion, I believe we are well which we seek to build our position, with placed to continue to deliver sustainable our broad product and brand portfolio.
Our focus on cost and efficiency continues, as well as ensuring the most effective use of our free cash ow through value creating acquisitions such as Commonwealth Brands and the proposed acquisition of Altadis, Gareth Davis coupled with the ongoing investment in Chief Executive our existing business.
com 7 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued World tobacco market context More than five trillion cigarettes are consumed each year, with the worlds largest cigarette market, China, accounting for over a third of total global consumption.
Industry Overview In mature markets, we expect smoking Industry Growth Opportunities The five largest international tobacco incidence to decline with percentages While the tobacco industry is mature, companies are Altria, British American of smokers within total populations with global volumes broadly stable, we Tobacco, Japan Tobacco including reducing.
However, the number of believe there are still many opportunities recently acquired Gallaher, Imperial adults in the world is set to grow and, to grow profits.
Global market as a result, we expect that overall annual While traditional communications share of the five largest international global consumption will remain broadly channels are reducing through increased tobacco companies, excluding China, unchanged at around five trillion cigarettes regulation, we expect the significant are 28 per cent, 25 per cent, 16 per cent, per annum in the medium term.
international cigarette brands to grow 6 per cent and 3 per cent respectively.
Tobacco regulation and legislation from their current position of around has increased in recent years, including 30 per cent of total global volume, restrictions on smoking in public places, excluding China.
advertising and promotional restrictions Recent industry consolidation such Global market shares and pictorial health warnings.
as Japan Tobaccos acquisition of excluding China Gallaher and our proposed acquisition Excise Duty of Altadis, combined with investments Increases in excise duty in many of the in smaller scale bolt-on acquisitions and mature higher price markets such as underlying organic growth, should increase the UK, are leading consumers to opportunities for the international downtrade to cheaper brands.
Conversely in emerging markets, premium brands are growing as consumers are increasingly trading up.
One of the biggest challenges facing Altria 28% the industry is illicit trade.
International British American Tobacco 25% disparities in the rates of excise duty have Japan Tobacco 16% created an environment that encourages Imperial Tobacco 6% the growth of smuggling, illegal crossAltadis 3% Other 22% border trading and counterfeiting.
For more information visit www.
com 8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Understanding our operating environment We have operated profitably in a highly regulated environment for many years.
Tobacco Regulation Smoking in Public Places hotels and tobacconists a derogation Regulatory pressures on the industry In a number of the markets and regions until 1 January 2008. have continued during 2007.
Governments in which we operate the debate on the In Germany, the Governments ban around the world are pursuing in varying introduction of increased restrictions on on smoking in all government buildings, degrees the further regulation of tobacco smoking in public places and the work whilst allowing for the provision of separate products, including restrictions affecting place has intensied.
smoking areas, as well as a total ban the manufacture, development, sale, on public transport, came into effect on Our View distribution, marketing and advertising 1 September 2007.
Legislation for hospitality We support sensible regulation but believe of tobacco products.
venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants that bans on smoking in public places are Developments in the areas of smoking in continues to be debated at the Federal disproportionate and unnecessary.
public places, the first global tobacco treaty, State level, with the implementation of further Our experience in markets where smoking pictorial health warnings, excise duty and restrictions planned in the coming months.
restrictions or total bans are in place supports tobacco-related litigation are outlined below.
In the Australian States of Victoria, New our view on the impact of this legislation.
In addition, there have been other South Wales and the Australian Capital Smokers will continue to smoke, and regulatory developments during the year Territory further public smoking restrictions while there may be an initial dip in cigarette including further restrictions on product have come into effect.
consumption, this tends to diminish over time.
display, new reporting formats for the We believe that concerns about smoking increased disclosure of tobacco ingredients, Framework Convention on in public places can be resolved through and, debate in the EU and Australia on Tobacco Control common sense and courtesy and by the testing and standards of lower ignition The World Health Organisations WHO introducing practical solutions such as propensity cigarettes that are currently Framework Convention on Tobacco Control well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking available throughout Canada and in FCTC took effect on 27 February 2005 areas into work places, restaurants and several US states.
and by the end of September 2007 had other public places.
been ratied by 151 countries as well as the EU.
The FCTC is the first global tobacco 2007 Update treaty that seeks to regulate tobacco On 30 January 2007, the EU Commission products in a number of areas including launched a Green Paper seeking views on advertising, labelling, product testing and the the scope of measures to regulate public submission of ingredient information as well smoking.
The Green Paper presents five as product traceability.
The FCTC also policy options including exemptions for certain addresses tobacco taxation and calls for venues, for example restaurants and bars.
tightened legislation to combat the illicit In June 2007, the European Parliament trade in tobacco products.
released its own draft report on the Green Paper calling on the Commission to present Our View a proposal by 2008 for a comprehensive We agree with many aspects of the ban in all enclosed work places, catering convention, most notably the need to prevent establishments, public buildings and youth smoking and the urgent need to stamp transport within the EU.
out both smuggling and counterfeiting of The UK now has a comprehensive ban on tobacco products.
However, it is our belief Alison Cooper smoking in public places and work places that some of the FCTC provisions seek to Corporate Development Director including bars, restaurants and private go beyond reasonable objectives and impose member clubs.
Following the introduction a supranational regulatory regime covering We have continued our long of restrictions in Scotland in March 2006, a wide range of areas better addressed by standing approach of constructive Wales followed on 2 April 2007, Northern national regulators, who are familiar with engagement with the authorities in Ireland on 30 April 2007 and England on local conditions.
Moreover, it gives the WHO the markets in which we operate.
1 July 2007. authority to establish rules in areas outside its The French Government published a core competence areas that fall under the decree in November 2006 banning smoking jurisdiction of other bodies such as the World For more information visit www.
com in public places from 1 February 2007, Trade Organisation or the International but giving bars, restaurants, nightclubs, Standards Organisation.
com 9 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 2007 Update Excise Duty Tobacco-Related Litigation The second Conference of Parties all We are not facing any active tobaccoTobacco products are subject to excise duty countries which have ratied the FCTC related litigation in the UK.
which, in most markets in which we operate, took place in July 2007.
During the meeting, In the Republic of Ireland, the number of represents a substantial percentage of the the draft guideline on protection from tobacco-related claims has fallen from 307 retail price.
High taxes and international Environmental Tobacco Smoke Article 8 in 1997, to 11.
Ten of these claims are disparities in rates of excise duty charged on was unanimously adopted and it was decided subject to dismissal motions.
The other tobacco products have created an environment that further work will be conducted on claim is inactive.
The dismissal motion in in which both illegal cross-border trading and product regulation and illicit trade.
New respect of one claimant was heard by counterfeiting have proliferated.
work agreed includes the development of the Dublin High Court in November and guidelines in the following areas: advertising Our View December 2006.
In April 2007, the court and sponsorship, packaging and labelling, We remain totally opposed to illegal crossruled that this claim should be dismissed.
smoking cessation, tobacco industry border trading and counterfeiting of tobacco This decision has been appealed and the interference and education.
We are committed to working with dismissal motions in respect of the nine work for a protocol that would focus solely government authorities and international other active claims have been stayed on cross-border advertising has been organisations around the world to counter pending the appeal.
No date has been suspended following the decision for a the illicit trade in tobacco products.
set for the appeal hearing.
comprehensive guideline on advertising, We are no longer facing any claims in 2007 Update sponsorship and promotion.
In November 2006, we received a In general, levels of excise duty have been favourable judgment in a case brought against Pictorial Health Warnings steadily increasing in recent years in a number us by an individual.
Also in November 2006, Pictorial health warnings are mandatory in a of markets in which we operate and this an appeal court upheld the dismissal in number of countries including Canada, Brazil, trend continued in EU Member States in March 2006 of a separate individual case.
Nearly all the Member States that Neither claimant has appealed these decisions countries around the world are considering joined the EU in May 2004 and January and they are now out of time to do so.
the use of pictorial health warnings.
2007 have continued to implement excise Despite threats to do so, no proceedings duty increases as they move towards the Our View have been commenced against us in minimum EU level.
We do not believe that pictorial health the Netherlands.
It is our view that In the European Union, the EU Tobacco Following our acquisition of such warnings are designed solely to shock Excise Tax Directive contains a provision for Commonwealth Brands in April 2007, and stigmatise smokers, and we disagree it to be evaluated every four years.
As part we are currently facing two claims brought with their use.
We believe that pictorial health of the current review a technical consultation by individuals in the United States of America, warnings make no overall contribution to the document was published on 30 March 2007 one of which has been dismissed but could public awareness of the risks associated seeking overall excise duty simplication still theoretically be appealed: the other is with smoking, which are already well known.
and a narrowing of ne cut and cigarette inactive and has been for some time.
A We believe that we are entitled to use our third case against Commonwealth Brands excise duty.
The European Commission is packaging to enable our consumers to was dismissed in June 2007 and cannot expected to issue a formal report, with rm distinguish our products from those of be appealed.
This is consistent with the proposals to amend the minimum levels of our competitors.
considerable improvements we have excise duty relating to tobacco, by the end seen in the US litigation environment.
Discussions at Member State, To date, no judgment has been entered Belgium was the first EU Member State to European Parliament and European Council adopt legislation requiring pictorial health against Imperial Tobacco and no action level are expected to follow in 2008.
The warnings to be introduced for cigarettes.
has been settled in favour of a claimant new EU Tobacco Excise Tax Directive is Following our challenge to the Belgian in any tobacco-related litigation involving then expected to be adopted in 2009, with regulations, the Ministry of Health changed Imperial Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
implementation in the period 2010 2012. the regulations and now requires 14 pictorial Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its We have continued to work with customs health warnings, instead of the 42 originally lawyers that it has meritorious defences to authorities in a number of countries around proposed.
Products bearing the new the legal proceedings in which damages are the world to counter the illicit trade in tobacco health warnings appeared on shelves sought for alleged tobacco-related health products.
We have now signed formal from early 2007. effects.
We will continue to vigorously Memoranda of Understanding MoU in The UK Government has announced that contest all such litigation against us.
a number of countries including the UK, from October 2008 pictorial health warnings Ireland, Turkey and China, with similar will be required on all tobacco product packs.
industry wide co-operation agreements in In New Zealand, a health warning and corresponding graphic must cover 30 per Australia and the Ukraine.
cent of the front and 90 per cent of the back of cigarette packs from February 2008.
In Taiwan, pictorial health warning legislation is expected to take effect from January 2009.
Other countries considering the use of pictorial health warnings include Latvia, Slovakia, Switzerland and the Republic of Ireland.
10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Broad Product and Brand Portfolio A strategy that delivers globally Our broad product and brand portfolio includes international cigarette brands such as Davidoff and West and strong regional Our strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by and local brands such as JPS, Lambert & growing both organically and through acquisitions.
Butler, Classic, Maxim, Excellence and Horizon.
Complementing our cigarette portfolio is our world leadership in ne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators with brands such as Golden Virginia, Drum and Rizla.
To ensure we continue to leverage and build brand equity, our brand strategy takes a portfolio approach responsive to individual market dynamics Group strategy and price segmentation.
2 Cost Optimisation and To create sustainable Efficiency Improvements shareholder value by growing both Our continued focus on reducing costs organically and through acquisitions and improving our efficiency supports our 1 Strategic objectives sales development.
Our ongoing search for productivity improvements, through 1 2 3 the effective use of our assets and by Cost optimisation optimising our manufacturing capacity, Sales and efficiency Effective cash is the primary driver of our manufacturing development improvements management strategy.
We seek continuous performance improvements and believe there is further Measuring success Key Performance Indicators potential for cost savings through our ongoing programme of standardisation Adjusted earnings per Total shareholder return Adjusted operating margin and the extension of best practice across share all our manufacturing facilities, while Cigarette market Cash conversion Volumes Productivity safeguarding our reputation for quality, rate share exibility and innovation.
This cost focus extends beyond manufacturing and, throughout Imperial Tobacco, our culture is focused on cost the Republic of Ireland, France, Belgium, Our Strategic Objectives optimisation and shareholder value creation.
Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, Greece and We deliver our strategy by actively pursuing Italy.
In these countries we are focused on three primary objectives: 3 Effective Cash Management building our cigarette market shares, along Imperial Tobacco is a highly cash generative 1 Sales Development with strengthening our position in ne cut business.
Our focus is on managing capital We are growing our business internationally tobacco and rolling papers.
expenditure and working capital, tax and through organic growth and acquisitions.
Outside Western Europe we have 1 interest costs.
Our strategy is to ensure strengths in sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle 1 that the cash we generate is used efficiently Strong Geographic Footprint East, selected countries in Central and through acquisitions, organic investment We have a strong international prole, with Eastern Europe, Asia and Australasia and and returning funds to our shareholders, our products sold in over 130 countries.
Our key markets within these adding to our value creation.
We see opportunities, both organic and regions include the Ivory Coast, Saudi Arabia, We have invested 6.2 billion in acquisition-led, to enhance and extend our Poland, Russia, Ukraine, Taiwan and Australia.
acquisitions since our listing on the existing operations in our Rest of Western Our strategy continues to be focused on London Stock Exchange in 1996 and have Europe, United States and Rest of the World developing our international strategic and returned over 0.8 billion to shareholders regions, with our strong positions in the regional brands and expanding our presence through our share buyback programme.
UK and Germany continuing to be key in both existing and new markets.
Our We are committed to continuing to expand contributors to our overall results.
recent acquisition of Commonwealth our business through both acquisitions Our historical roots are in the UK and we Brands gives us an established platform and organic investment opportunities.
have held a significant position in Germany from which to grow in the US market.
Our dividend policy is to increase dividends since our acquisition of Reemtsma.
In both We continue to seek acquisitions which broadly in line with growth in adjusted these markets, our strategic focus is the increase both our international scale and earnings per share, with a payout ratio profitable development of our strong portfolio penetration of our targeted markets, of around 50 per cent.
particularly where those businesses across all product groups.
We operate in Western Europe with have highly complementary geographic important markets including the Netherlands, proles and strong brand portfolios.
com 11 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Principal risks and uncertainties A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by management and is embedded into our corporate planning process.
Each area of the business is required to the markets in which we operate, to alleged foreign trading and related formally review their principal areas of risk there are regulatory restrictions affecting violations by a number of people, and uncertainty so that major risks are the manufacture, development, sale, including former Reemtsma employees, reviewed at all levels across the Group.
distribution, marketing and advertising during a period prior to our 2002 This is an ongoing process, ensuring there of tobacco products.
Increased regulation acquisition of Reemtsma, is included are clear and consistent procedures for may increase our operating costs and in the Corporate Governance Report.
monitoring, updating and implementing may have an adverse effect on the appropriate controls to manage the demand for our products.
Key Market Dependency identied risks.
The Board acknowledges The continued organic growth of the responsibility for the Groups systems Excise Duty business is underpinned by our key of internal control.
More detailed Increasing excise duty on tobacco products markets.
Any material decline in the information on the Groups approach is likely to reduce the demand for tobacco performance of these markets may to risk management is found in the products.
Tobacco products are subject impact our future profit development.
to excise duty which, in many of the markets We are subject to the same general in which we operate, represents a Competition Law risks and uncertainties as any other substantial percentage of the retail price We have significant market positions in business, for example, the political stability and has been steadily increasing in recent certain markets.
As a result, we may be in the countries in which we operate and years.
Increasing levels of excise duty subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny as source our raw materials, the impact of have, among other things, encouraged to competition law in these markets, which natural disasters and changes in general consumers in affected markets to switch could result in adverse regulatory action by economic conditions including currency from premium priced cigarettes to lower relevant authorities, including the potential and interest rate uctuations, changes priced cigarettes and ne cut tobacco.
for monetary fines, and negative publicity.
in taxation legislation and the impact Substantial increases in excise duty Along with a number of other companies of competition.
and any signicantly unfavourable change we supplied information to the UK Ofce Outlined below is a description of the in the tax treatment of ne cut tobacco, of Fair Trading OFT in October 2003 principal risks and uncertainties that are if widely adopted, may have an adverse and April 2005 in relation to an enquiry specic to, and may impact, our business.
effect on the size of individual duty paid into the operations of the UK tobacco Not all these factors are within the Groups markets for our products.
supply chain, but to date no substantive control.
There may be other risks and Excise duty increases have also response to any of the information uncertainties which are unknown to the encouraged both legal and illegal crosssubmitted has been received from the Group or which may not be material border trade from countries with lower OFT.
The OFTs enquiry is continuing.
now but could turn out to be material levels of duty and the production of In the event that the OFT ultimately in the future.
Within decides that a company has infringed A more detailed description of the such an environment there is a risk that UK competition law, it may impose a ne.
risks relating to us and to the proposed we and or our employees may be acquisition of Altadis is set out in Part III subject to investigation by customs Litigation of our circular to shareholders dated or other authorities.
Although we have We may incur substantial costs in 18 July 2007 and is available on our implemented procedures to detect and connection with health-related litigation.
com control illegal trading of our products, Various tobacco litigation claims are such procedures can provide only pending against the Group.
To date, no Regulation reasonable and not absolute assurance tobacco litigation claim brought against The tobacco industry is subject to of detecting non-compliance by managing Imperial Tobacco has been successful substantial and increasing regulation.
and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
For many years the trend has been Further information regarding certain However, if any individual claim were to towards an increasingly restrictive investigations initiated by the German be successful, it may result in a significant regulatory environment.
In many of authorities in January 2003 in relation liability for damages, and may lead to For more information visit For more see the Corporate Governance p32 www.
com section of this Report 12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Measuring our performance Key Performance Indicators are the principal measures used by the Board to assess performance against our strategy.
Key Performance Indicators 2007 performance Previous years 2006: 122.2p Adjusted Earnings further claims against us.
Regardless 2005: 112.2p Per Share 136.7p of the outcome of pending litigation, the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Total Shareholder 2006: 14% 2005: 40% Proposed Acquisition of Altadis Return 30% The proposed acquisition of Altadis is conditional on 80 per cent of Altadis shareholders accepting our offer and on Altadis shareholders resolving to 2006: 42.9% Adjusted Operating amend Altadis bye-laws to remove 2005: 41.5% Margin 45.0% certain restrictions on voting rights.
While we believe that we have a proven track record of integrating acquisitions, the success of the 2006: 98% Cash Conversion proposed acquisition will be dependent 2005: 101% Rate on our ability to integrate Altadis 81% without disruption to our and its existing business.
The integration of Altadis may involve particular challenges and will require management attention 2006: 45.5% Cigarette Market that would otherwise be devoted to 1 2005: 44.5% Share 46.4% running our business.
We can offer UK no assurance that we will be able to realise the potential benets of the proposed acquisition to the extent 2006: 20.7% envisaged and within the timeframe 2005: 19.4% 21.3% contemplated.
If we are unable to Germany successfully integrate Altadis, this could have a negative impact on the revenue, profit and financial condition of the 2006: 186.9bn Volumes enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group.
2005: 175.2bn The circular relating to the proposed 200.3bn acquisition of Altadis is available on our Cigarette website, www.
com Part III of the circular outlines in detail 2006: 25,500t the risk factors relating to the 2005: 26,600t proposed acquisition.
Excluding Commonwealth Brands Our KPIs are defined 3.
Excluding our Lahr factory in Germany, which was impacted by the p56 cessation of Singles production.
The factory was subsequently closed in full in the Glossary in March 2007 www.
com 13 Financial Review Financial strength In 2007 we delivered another record financial performance.
increase was due to higher average adjusted net debt of 4.3 billion 2006: 3.5 billion and a marginally higher average all in cost of debt of 5.5 per cent 2006: 5.4 per cent reecting higher euro interest rates on our oating rate debt.
Adjusted interest cover was 6.2 times 2006: 7.2 times.
Reported net finance costs of 181 million 2006: 143 million included retirement benefit net finance income of 54 million 2006: 46 million and fair value gains on interest rate derivatives of 2 million 2006: loss of 1 million.
profit Before Tax Adjusted profit before tax was 1,238 million, up 6 per cent on 2006.
Reported Robert Dyrbus profit before tax increased to 1,237 million Finance Director 2006: 1,168 million.
Group Operating Performance Taxation 2007 2006 The adjusted tax charge for the year m m was 310 million 2006: 310 million, Net revenue 3,280 3,162 representing an adjusted effective tax rate of 25.0 per cent 2006: 26.5 per cent.
Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 1,356 The reported tax charge was 325 million Amortisation of acquired trademarks 23 2006: 310 million.
Restructuring costs 45 Fair value movements on derivatives 34 Earnings and Dividends Adjusted earnings per share increased by profit from operations 1,418 1,311 12 per cent to 136.7 pence 2006: 122.2 Adjusted operating margin 45.0% 42.9% pence and basic earnings per share increased by 10 per cent to 134.3 pence In 2007, revenue was 12,344 million Trademark Amortisation, 2006: 122.2 pence.
We have proposed compared to 11,676 million in 2006.
Restructuring Costs and Derivative a final dividend of 48.5 pence such that the Excluding duty and similar items, net Financial Instruments total dividend for the year is 69.5 pence, an revenue was 3,280 million 2006: Reported profit from operations in 2007 increase of 12 per cent.
included trademark amortisation costs of by shareholders, this dividend will be paid Adjusted profit from operations was 23 million, principally related to trademarks on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders up 9 per cent to 1,475 million and Group acquired under the Commonwealth Brands on the register at close of business on adjusted operating margin rose to 45.0 per acquisition, and 34 million fair value losses 18 January 2008.
Our policy remains to cent 2006: 42.9 per cent.
Reported profit on derivative financial instruments on grow dividends broadly in line with adjusted from operations grew 8 per cent to 1,418 commercially effective hedges.
earnings per share, with a payout ratio million 2006: 1,311 million.
The 2006 restructuring costs of 45 of around 50 per cent.
Good organic growth throughout the million relate to the closures of our Lahr business with volume increases and pricing and Liverpool factories.
There were no Net Debt and Cash improvements have offset the cessation restructuring costs in 2007.
At 30 September 2007, our reported net of Singles in Germany.
Our overall results debt had increased to 4.9 billion 2006: benefited from six months contribution from Net Finance Costs 3.9 billion.
Eliminating the fair value of Commonwealth Brands following its Adjusted net finance costs increased to interest rate derivatives and accrued acquisition in April.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have re-classied the results of our Austrian business from Germany to Rest of the World to reect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group.
The results for 2006 have been re-stated accordingly.
Similarly, the 2006 results of our US rolling papers and tubes business have been reclassied from Rest of the World to United States as the United States segment has been introduced following the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
our adjusted net debt was 4.8 billion At the time of launching our proposed offer 2006: 3.8 billion.
The increase in adjusted in July, new bank facilities of 9.2 billion net debt was primarily due to the acquisition were put in place ready to renance certain of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007. existing Imperial and Altadis bank facilities, as well as to provide the debt portion of During the year to 30 September 2007, the acquisition funding.
we spent a further 105 million, including As the proceeds of the rights issue will transaction costs, acquiring 5.7 million of not be available on completion of the deal our shares at an average market price of and in order to satisfy the requirements for 18.31 per share.
Prior to the suspension bank guarantees avales to be issued in of our share buyback programme, at respect of the total consideration payable, the time of our announcement of the an equity bridge facility of 5.4 billion was Commonwealth Brands acquisition, put in place to cover the funding requirements we had spent a cumulative 862 million, until the rights issue process is complete.
including transaction costs, buying back The rights issue will occur before 18 July 51.7 million shares representing 7.1 per 2008 and will be sized to ensure that we cent of issued share capital.
issue the minimum amount of equity Our cash conversion for year ended needed to maintain an investment grade September 2007 was 81 per cent 2006: 98 credit rating, to which we are committed.
This is lower than our targeted rate of around 100 per cent due to a higher level of net capital expenditure, as well as a short term increase in working capital of 194 million as a result of stock building in certain Central European markets in advance of duty increases due in January 2008.
Acquisitions Robert Dyrbus The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands Finance Director was completed on 2 April 2007.
In January 2007, we also acquired a controlling interest in Tremaco, a tobacco and tobacco-related products distribution business based in Estonia.
Financing of the Proposed Acquisition of Altadis The proposed acquisition of Altadis will be nanced through new bank debt facilities and a rights issue.
com 15 Operating Review Strong brands Our key global brands of Davidoff, West, Drum, Golden Virginia and Rizla are complemented by a strong portfolio of regional and local brands such as Lambert & Butler, Classic, JPS, Horizon, Maxim and Excellence.
We have seen some excellent performances from our key strategic cigarette brands, Davidoff and West, supported by good progress from a number of our regional brands with JPS a particular highlight.
Graham Blashill Group Sales and Marketing Director West is our largest international volume brand, Drum is the second largest ne cut tobacco brand Golden Virginia is the number one ne cut tobacco in the world, sold in over 45 markets worldwide.
It is sold in over 35 markets, with significant presence in Germany, Central and predominately in Western Europe.
JPS is our key low-priced cigarette brand and is Rizla is available in over 120 markets worldwide Davidoff is sold in over 100 countries worldwide and is growing in a number of markets across Western and is the number one rolling paper brand in the particularly strong in Taiwan, Greece and the Middle East.
UK, Belgium, Greece, France, Italy, Scandinavia and Africa.
16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 per cent and the UKs number two brand, United Kingdom Richmond, was up at 15.7 per cent 2006: 15.5 per cent.
Following the introduction We continued to build on our market leading position in the UK of Windsor Blue last year, the brand continued to grow strongly in the economy and have delivered excellent financial results.
sector capturing 2.6 per cent share of the total market.
In ne cut tobacco, our market share dipped to 63.6 per cent 2006: 65.3 per cent but Golden Virginia continues to lead the market.
We launched Gold Leaf in June 2007 in the value segment, and had grown to 1.6 per cent market share in September 2007.
We are the UK market Performance Highlights leader in rolling papers and, in August, we 2007 2006 launched a new variant Rizla Smooth with Net revenue 876m 835m positive results to date.
Adjusted profit from operations 564m 506m Outlook Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 22.9bn 23.4bn The UK is an important profit centre for the Group.
With our broad product and brand Imperial Tobacco ne cut tobacco volumes 2,200t 2,100t portfolio and the initiatives we have taken in the economy cigarette and the value ne Market Overview cut tobacco sectors, we believe we are well 2007 2006 placed to continue to build on our market 1 leading position.
Market size: cigarette 47.9bn 49.1bn 1 Market size: ne cut tobacco 3,500t 3,250t 1 Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes 46.4% 45.5% Imperial Tobacco market share: 1 ne cut tobacco 63.6% 65.3% 1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Market Dynamics Once the initial impact of public smoking We estimate that the total UK cigarette bans has dissipated, we expect annual market was down 2 per cent to 47.9 billion, cigarette market declines of 3 to 4 per cent with strong growth in the value and economy in line with the long term trend.
On 1 sector continuing, now accounting for over October 2007, the minimum age for the 44 per cent of the total market.
Following sale of tobacco products by retailers in a buoyant first half, the cigarette market England, Scotland and Wales was declined in the second half following the increased from 16 to 18. introduction of bans on smoking in public places and the poor weather.
The ne cut Our Performance tobacco market grew by 8 per cent to In the UK, net revenue grew by 5 per cent, 3,500 tonnes 2006: 3,250 tonnes, with to 876 million, with adjusted profit from downtrading into and within the segment.
operations up by 11 per cent to 564 A ban on smoking in public places was million.
This strong financial performance introduced in England on 1 July 2007, reects growth in our cigarette market following similar bans in Wales and share, cost savings and pricing Northern Ireland, earlier in the year.
anticipated, and in line with our experiences Our cigarette market share climbed to in other markets with similar legislation, 46.4 per cent 2006: 45.5 per cent.
The these have resulted in an initial decline UKs best selling cigarette brand, Lambert & in cigarette market volumes.
com 17 Operating Review continued smoking areas as well as a total ban Germany on public transport, came into effect on 1 September 2007.
Legislation for hospitality Our cigarette share grew in Germany, with JPS continuing venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants and regional state government buildings its strong upward trend.
continues to be debated at the Regional State level, with the implementation of further restrictions planned in the coming months.
Our Performance In Germany, net revenue fell to 524 million, with adjusted profit from operations down to 238 million.
Our results benefited from continued growth in our cigarette market Performance Highlights share and cost efficiencies, but were 2007 2006 adversely affected by the cessation of the Net revenue 524m 575m profitable Singles product and the decline in the total duty paid tobacco market.
Adjusted profit from operations 238m 270m Our cigarette market share grew to Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 20.4bn 19.9bn 21.3 per cent 2006: 20.7 per cent, with an excellent performance from JPS which Imperial Tobacco other tobacco products increased its market share to 6.4 per cent volumes as cigarette equivalents 8.0bn 10.0bn 2006: 3.8 per cent.
Along with other mid priced brands, West, the second largest Market Overview cigarette brand in Germany, continued 2007 2006 to be impacted by downtrading with its market share down to 7.2 per cent 2006: 1 Market size: cigarette 91bn 92bn 8.2 per cent.
Davidoff, in the premium Market size: other tobacco products sector, remained broadly stable at 1.0 1 per cent of the total cigarette market as cigarette equivalents 36bn 43bn 2006: 1.1 per cent.
1 Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes 21.3% 20.7% Our market share of other tobacco Imperial Tobacco market share: other products was down to 19.1 per cent 1 2006: 21.8 per cent impacted by the tobacco products as cigarette equivalents 19.1% 21.8% migration of former Singles consumers, 1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
and increased competition in this sector.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have reclassied the results of our Austrian business from Germany to Our make your own West and JPS Single Rest of the World to reect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group.
The results for Tobacco products and newly launched 2006 have been restated accordingly.
Route 66 make your own tobacco performed well and have captured a significant share of this growing segment.
Market Dynamics segment, now 19.1 per cent of the cigarette The German market continued to be market compared to 11.4 per cent a year ago.
Outlook impacted by the cessation of the make Other tobacco products were down 16 We are focused on continuing the positive your own Singles product, following the per cent to 36 billion cigarette equivalents developments in our cigarette market share.
change in taxation status of the product in 2006: 43 billion.
In 2006, Singles accounted We believe we are well positioned to benefit April 2006.
This, combined with successive for 20 billion cigarette equivalents of the from the downtrading environment, given tobacco tax increases, has increased total other tobacco products sector.
In line our strength in value cigarettes and our both legal and illegal cross-border ows with our view at our interim results in May, broad product portfolio.
we estimate that approximately 20 per cent We estimate that the overall tobacco of former Singles consumers have moved market in 2007 was down 6 per cent to into duty paid cigarettes, 55 per cent into 127 billion cigarette equivalents 2006: 135 other tobacco products and 25 per cent billion.
The cigarette market fell slightly to into both legal and illegal cross-border ows.
91 billion cigarettes 2006: 92 billion, with The Federal Governments ban on downtrading continuing, resulting in strong smoking in all federal government buildings, growth in the low price branded cigarette whilst allowing for the provision of separate 18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 our cigarette shares and benefited from Rest of Western Europe pricing improvements, but results were impacted by lower travel retail sales and Our cigarette share grew in a number of markets in our Rest euro exchange rates.
of Western Europe region, reflecting growth in Davidoff, West Cigarette Performance and JPS.
Our cigarette market share was up to 10.6 per cent in the Netherlands with an excellent performance from JPS.
Route 66 and newly launched JPS grew our market share in Belgium to 10.6 per cent.
JPS delivered another good performance in France, where market share was up to 4.0 per cent.
In Ireland, our market share improvement to 26.4 per cent was driven Performance Highlights by John Player Blue.
In Greece, Davidoff 2007 2006 and West continued to grow strongly with our total market share continuing its Net revenue 635m 637m upward trend to 9.7 per cent.
In Spain our Adjusted profit from operations 326m 324m market share was impacted by lower travel retail sales and was down to 5.9 per cent, Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 19.6bn 20.1bn while in Portugal our market share climbed Imperial Tobacco ne cut tobacco volumes 14,900t 15,100t to 4.1 per cent, again with strong growth from JPS.
Regional Overview Fine Cut Tobacco Performance 2007 2006 In ne cut tobacco the market remains 1 Regional size: cigarette 320bn 320bn extremely competitive, although the 1 portfolio extension and repositioning Regional size: ne cut tobacco 31,200t 30,450t initiatives we have undertaken have started to deliver some market share 1 Imperial Tobacco Market Shares improvements.
Newly launched Bastos Cigarette Fine Cut Tobacco has grown our market share in Belgium 2007 2006 2007 2006 to 10.9 per cent, while in the Netherlands, the largest ne cut tobacco market in the Belgium 10.6% 10.2% 10.9% 10.4% region, our overall market share was stable France 4.0% 3.6% 26.7% 28.0% at 51.1 per cent with Zilver and Evergreen performing well.
Despite growth in JPS, Greece 9.7% 8.4% 43.8% 45.2% our market share was down in France to Ireland 26.4% 26.2% 65.6% 67.4% 26.7 per cent, due to increased competition from cigarette branded ne cut tobacco Italy 1.3% 1.5% 49.0% 54.1% launches.
In Italy, Peter Stuyvesant make Netherlands 10.6% 8.9% 51.1% 51.1% your own was launched in April and has Portugal 4.1% 3.4% 42.5% 57.7% been successful, capturing 2.9 per cent of the ne cut tobacco market by September.
Outlook The strength of our broad portfolio continues to offer us a number of growth opportunities.
We are focused on further developing the Regional Dynamics at both the EU and Member State level, positive momentum behind our growing We estimate that the regional cigarette including further restrictions introduced in cigarette shares.
Although we expect the market was stable at 320 billion cigarettes France on 1 February 2007.
Pictorial health ne cut tobacco market will continue to be with the annual regional ne cut tobacco warnings appeared on cigarette packs in challenging, we will focus on ensuring the market up to 31,200 tonnes.
The pricing Belgium in early 2007. success of the initiatives we have taken environment is improving with increases with our ne cut tobacco portfolio.
in a number of markets, including Spain, Our Performance the Netherlands and France.
Net revenue was down slightly to 635 The introduction of bans on smoking million, with adjusted profit from operations in public places continues to be debated up slightly to 326 million.
com 19 Operating Review continued and Sonoma holding 8.2 per cent and United States 4.8 per cent of the discount cigarette sector respectively.
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007 has We have an existing strong presence in rolling papers and tubes, which grew significantly increased our presence in this profitable market.
volumes by 13 per cent and 8 per cent respectively in the year.
In July 2007, we completed the purchase of the Bali Shag and McClintock ne cut tobacco brands from Peter Stokkebye.
Prior to this, Commonwealth Brands was the exclusive distributor of these two brands, which have a combined market share of around 1 per cent of the ne cut tobacco market.
Performance Highlights We continue to progress our own Master 2007 2006 Settlement Agreement application and have Net revenue 117m 14m had very constructive dialogue with the National Association of Attorneys General Adjusted profit from operations 52m 4m and representatives from several settling Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 7.1bn states.
We expect to complete our application in a few weeks.
Imperial Tobacco ne cut tobacco volumes 100t The integration of our existing Our 2007 results include six months contribution for Commonwealth Brands, which was acquired on 2 April 2007. rolling papers and tubes business with Commonwealth Brands has progressed Market Overview well, with our New Jersey sales and 2007 2006 marketing operations transferring to the Commonwealth Brands ofce in Bowling 1 Market size: cigarette 367bn 379bn Green, Kentucky.
1 Market size: ne cut tobacco 10,000t 9,100t 1 Outlook Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes 3.7% We have nalised plans for the launch of our Imperial Tobacco market share: 1.0% brands and are in a position to begin their 1 ne cut tobacco roll out once we have completed all aspects of becoming a Participating Manufacturer in 1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
We believe we are well positioned to develop our business in the US with our Market Dynamics would give the Food & Drug Administration versatile, multi-product portfolio and an authority to regulate tobacco products is also The US is the worlds second largest enhanced platform from which to launch being debated.
In recent times, we have cigarette market by volume after China, our brands and products.
seen considerable improvements in the accounting for a significant percentage of litigation environment, reecting the fact that the tobacco industry global profits.
In 2007, the great majority of individual and class action we estimate that the overall cigarette claims have been decided in favour of the market declined by 3 per cent to 367 billion tobacco industry.
cigarettes 2006: 379 billion, with the discount sector accounting for around 27 Our Performance per cent of the total cigarette market.
Including six months contribution for The other tobacco products sector is Commonwealth Brands, which was acquired dominated by smokeless tobacco products on 2 April 2007, net revenue for the year was which account for approximately 60 per 117 million 2006: 14 million, with adjusted cent of the market.
Cigars and cigarillos profit from operations 52 million 2006: account for 30 per cent, with ne cut 4 million.
tobacco and pipe tobacco the remaining 10 Cigarette volumes were 7.1 billion, per cent.
We estimate that the ne cut with our cigarette market share at 3.7 per tobacco market grew 10 per cent to 10,000 cent of the total cigarette market and at tonnes 2006: 9,100 tonnes.
13.4 per cent in the discount sector.
The Legislation proposing an increase in federal Commonwealth brand portfolio is focused excise tax on tobacco has been unsuccessful, on the discount sector with USA Gold but debate on this issue continues.
A bill that 20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 International expansion Our success is built on the consistent and successful execution of our strategy.
We have grown our business internationally both organically and through acquisitions in recent years.
Following our investment in Skruf in 2005, we have focused on developing our snus position.
5% Davidoff volume growth in 2007 We have grown our cigarette market share in Norway to 3.5 per Our US cigarette market share: cent following our 2006 acquisition of Gunnar Stenberg.
3.7% of the total market 13.4% of the discount sector We have introduced a number of our own brands into Estonia, following our acquisition of Tremaco in January 2007.
Commonwealth Brands Davidoff Scandinavia On 2 April 2007 we acquired Commonwealth Following the acquisition of the worldwide Davidoff We have expanded our Central European footprint Brands, the fourth largest cigarette manufacturer cigarette trademark in September 2006 we have in recent years, with investments and acquisitions in the US for US$1.9 billion.
accelerated the brands development and widened its in Sweden, Norway and Estonia.
geographic prole with brand launches in a number of US Key Brands new markets.
The two key brands are USA Gold and Sonoma, which hold 8.2 per cent and 4.8 per cent of the discount cigarette sector respectively.
com 21 Operating Review continued Australasia Rest of the World In the highly regulated mature markets of Australia and New Zealand, we improved The diversity of this region provides opportunities for us to continue to profitability with the benefit of price increases, expand our business and grow our brands and profits.
despite the value segment of the cigarette sector becoming increasingly competitive.
Our market shares were down in Australia to 17.5 per cent 2006: 17.8 per cent, and broadly stable in New Zealand at 17.5 per cent.
Central Europe In Central Europe, important markets in this region include Poland, Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, Slovakia and the Performance Highlights Czech Republic supported by our 2007 2006 growing Scandinavian operations.
Net revenue 1,128m 1,101m We have improved our regional Adjusted profit from operations 295m 252m profitability and increased our cigarette market shares in a number of markets Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 130.3bn 123.5bn including the Czech Republic and Poland.
Imperial Tobacco ne cut tobacco volumes 2,550t 2,000t Brand highlights include Moon in the Czech Republic, Golden Gate in Hungary and With effect from 1 October 2006, we have re-classied the results of our Austrian business from Germany to Slovakia, JPS in Austria and West in Rest of the World to reect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group.
The results for Slovenia and Poland.
The EU accession 2006 have been re-stated accordingly.
Similarly, the 2006 results of our US rolling papers and tubes business have been re-classied from Rest of the World to United States as the United States segment has been countries in this region have rising taxes as introduced following the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
they work towards reaching EU minimum tax levels by the end of their derogation 1 Imperial Tobacco Cigarette Market Shares periods.
In this environment, ne cut 2007 2006 tobacco has grown, with our regional volumes doubling during the year.
Australia 17.5% 17.8% In Scandinavia, we have made progress Ivory Coast 83.3% 83.5% in developing our snus position growing Poland 16.9% 16.1% our volumes by 46 per cent.
Following our acquisition of Tremaco in Estonia in January Russia 5.5% 5.5% 2007, we have introduced a number of Taiwan 11.7% 11.1% our own brands, while in Norway we have grown our cigarette market share to 3.5 per Saudi Arabia 7.0% 5.1% cent with growth in Davidoff, Paramount Ukraine 20.6% 19.0% and West.
Eastern Europe In Eastern Europe, alongside our established positions in Ukraine and Russia we have Our Performance presence in Laos and Vietnam, while growing operations in Turkey and the Net revenue was up at 1,128 million, with in China we continue to develop our Caucasus.
Regional cigarette volumes adjusted profit from operations growing collaboration with the State Tobacco continued to grow strongly.
In Russia while 17 per cent to 295 million despite foreign Monopoly Administration and the Yuxi our market share was stable at 5.5 per cent, exchange losses.
This profit performance Hongta Group.
In Taiwan, we grew our Davidoff improved its performance.
In Ukraine, reects our growing cigarette volumes, market share to 11.7 per cent, with a good our volumes increased and our market share further geographic expansion and share performance from West adding to our continued its upward trend to 20.6 per cent gains we have achieved in a number of Davidoff market share.
We delivered 22 per markets in the region.
cent volume growth in Laos and increased 2006: 19.0 per cent, with volume increases our market share in Vietnam to 10.6 per for major brands particularly Classic, West Asia cent.
In China, our volumes of West and and Davidoff.
In Turkey, our market share has In Asia, we have a strong presence in Davidoff have grown with increased grown to 2.5 per cent and our volumes have Taiwan complemented by a growing distribution in additional cities.
risen by 85 per cent, with strong growth in 22 22 Imperial T Imperial Tobacco Gr obacco Group PLC 2007 oup PLC 2007 West, Klasik and Davidoff.
In the Caucasus, Manufacturing we delivered significant volume increases with good performances from West, We have a consistent approach across our 31 factories, Davidoff and R1.
enabling our simplication and standardisation strategy to deliver performance improvements, without compromising on quality.
Africa and the Middle East We have an established presence in the sub-Saharan region of Africa and in the Middle East, where Davidoff is our leading brand.
Our market shares grew in a number We seek to deliver further cost savings In March 2007, we announced our of markets across the region including across our manufacturing footprint, plans to build a factory in Taiwan Senegal with growth in Excellence, and this year delivered 33 million of at a cost of 45 million which will Madagascar with Good Look performing savings from a variety of initiatives aid the further development of our well, Burkina Faso with Mustang and the including ongoing business simplication presence in Asia.
We expect to Ivory Coast with Fine.
generate annual cost savings of In the Middle East region, Davidoff has 20 million from 2010 as a result again been driving growth with volumes Our Performance of a reduction in supply chain costs up by 29 per cent and market share gains We increased our productivity by and other operational efficiencies, across the region including Saudi Arabia, 7 per cent, with higher cigarette with the factory planned to be fully volumes contributing to our improved Kuwait and UAE.
operational by the end of our 2008 performance.
We also reduced our financial year.
unit costs in both cigarette and ne Americas and Duty Free We gained further ISO14001 cut tobacco, by 3 and 13 per cent We are focused on building our presence accreditation in the year with respectively.
In addition, we have into other markets in the Americas region.
Madagascar and Burkina Faso further simplied our blends and We launched Davidoff into Canada and bringing the total number of factories ingredients in the year.
West and Davidoff into Mexico.
certied to 21 or 68 per cent of our We aim to ensure that our In duty free, our cigarette volumes manufacturing operations.
manufacturing footprint is structured have remained stable and ne cut tobacco We constantly review potential effectively, to ensure a fast response volumes have grown by 27 per cent.
In standardisation opportunities and to changing market dynamics and particular, we have increased Davidoffs have delivered further operational consumer requirements.
In order presence in duty free following the efficiencies.
Our progress has been to meet growing demand in Eastern introduction of new variants.
Europe, we have increased the reected in the improvements in our capacity at both our Volgograd and manufacturing performance indicators.
Outlook Kiev factories with the installation With over 100 countries in our Rest of new and upgraded machinery.
Outlook of the World region it is a key area of future We have also added cigarette and We are focused on the quality of investment and potential growth for the other tobacco product machinery our products and on the continuing Group.
In the context of the challenges in Germany, in support of new success of our simplication and that the geographic diversity of this region product initiatives.
The closures of standardisation strategies, while brings, we believe there is considerable our factories in Liverpool in the UK ensuring we remain responsive and scope for continued market and exible to changes in market and and Lahr in Germany were completed brand development.
on schedule by the end of March 2007. www.
com 23 Operating Review continued Cost efficiency We are focused on the quality of our products and on the continuing success of our simplication and standardisation strategies, while ensuring we remain responsive and exible to changes in market conditions.
Overall productivity up by We have again delivered excellent productivity gains and cost progress.
7% David Cresswell Manufacturing Director Our manufacturing assets worldwide 3 22 6 Rolling papers Cigarette factories Other tobacco and tubes product factories factories Manufacturing Excellence Increased Productivity Continued Investment We have a consistent approach across our We increased our productivity by 7 per cent, Our investment in manufacturing has increased this year, 31 factories enabling us to deliver performance with higher cigarette volumes contributing to with construction of our new factory in Taiwan underway improvements, without compromising on quality.
and other initiatives in Russia, Ukraine and Germany.
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Corporate Responsibility A responsible approach We believe we can benefit our shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, consumers and the communities in which we operate by running our business responsibly.
We have met, or partially met, all Our strategy is to embed the principles of our objectives, with notable success of Corporate Responsibility into our in environmental management where we business processes and control systems.
achieved all our objectives ahead of schedule.
This enables high standards of corporate We believe that the systems we have in behaviour throughout our business place to manage our corporate responsibility and is demonstrated by our activities are appropriate.
This will assist us performance improvements.
in fullling our duty to promote the success of the company, as outlined in the Performance: Overview and Progress Companies Act 2006.
In 2005, we set a number of performance objectives across four areas: corporate Corporate Responsibility Management: responsibility management, product we have processes in place to manage our stewardship, occupational health safety most significant Corporate Responsibility and environmental management and social issues.
We have implemented a non-financial performance which were to be met by reporting system which enables us to External Assessment Our performance is reected in our progress in the indices by which we benchmark ourselves against other leading companies.
In the assessment conducted by In the Business in the Community We were also rated 70 per cent in the SAM Research for the Dow Jones Environment Index we also received 2007 Carbon Disclosure Project Index Sustainability Index 2007, our overall a Platinum ranking of 95 per cent compared to a food and beverage score was again 73 per cent for our performance sector average of 63 per cent compared with a sector average We were short-listed for the first of 44 per cent 66 per cent in 2005 Financial Times Citi Private Bank In the Business in the Community Environmental Award Meeting the Corporate Responsibility Index, Carbon Challenge.
We were selected we improved our performance from amongst the top six international 86 per cent in the previous year companies for the improvement to 91 per cent and were awarded we have made in carbon efficiency a Gold ranking in Europe, Asia and Africa www.
com 25 Corporate Responsibility continued regularly review our activities and progress.
None of the Corporate Responsibility issues we had previously identied as potentially Our Five Priorities for the Next Five Years material risks in our Corporate Responsibility We have five key areas of focus for our Corporate Reviews had a material impact in the reported year.
Responsibility activities over the next five years.
These are: Product Stewardship: we have implemented further standards for product stewardship We are committed to further improvements and ingredient assessments.
We have also Carbon in carbon management, through energy made provisions to meet the regulatory conservation, lower carbon technologies requirements of the EU Registration, Management and carbon offsetting.
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Regulation.
We are committed to further improvements Environmental Management and Portfolio in how we manage our product portfolio Occupational Health and Safety: in 2006, to achieve an appropriate balance between our energy consumption was down by 13 Balance 1 1 product stewardship, regulatory demand and per cent 2005: down by 11 per cent and the needs and preferences of our consumers.
our carbon dioxide emissions were down 1 by 21 per cent 2005: down by 20 per We will continue to work with our suppliers 1 cent.
We also made progress in reducing Supplier to improve their economic, social and our waste output, our waste to landll and Standards environmental standards.
In the area of occupational health and safety our lost time accident rates remained We will aim for accountability, training and stable during 2006.
We operate in some Local expertise to ensure a more effective local difficult regions of the world and take our Accountability response to Corporate Responsibility issues.
responsibilities regarding the personal security of our employees seriously.
However, during the year regrettably there were four fatalities.
A sales employee and We are aiming to increase transparency that two security guards were assaulted and Policy our policies and standards are routinely and murdered by armed militia in Africa in two Evidence universally observed.
separate incidents and a fatal accident occurred to a contractor at one of our UK factories, when he was crushed by his own vehicle.
In addition, we will continue our activities in the areas of occupational health, safety and environment and community investment, as well as continuing to Social Performance: we invested 1.7 develop our management systems.
million in community activities to respond to local community needs and to encourage employee activities in the communities For more information visit in which we operate.
com cr develop our social responsibility in tobacco production programme involving our suppliers and generally, a good level Independent Veriers Statement assurance statement in the Review.
This of risk management is evident.
on Corporate Responsibility year we have increased the scope and The information and performance data in depth of the assurance in line with the Further information on our performance our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines.
objectives and our progress is published has been veried by SGS United Kingdom SGS have evaluated our Corporate in our Corporate Responsibility Review Limited, to determine its accuracy and Responsibility Reporting against G3, in December.
reliability and to give an opinion on our and in their view, our disclosure is at Corporate Responsibility performance level B.
The maximum achievable level reporting.
This opinion can be found in their is A.
1 Absolute values for financial year 2006 compared with 2001 base year.
26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Summary Statutory Reports 28 Board of Directors and Chief Executives Committee 30 Summary Directors Report 31 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 32 Summary Corporate Governance Report Summary Financial Statements 42 Consolidated Income Statement 43 Consolidated Balance Sheet 44 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 45 Notes to the summary financial statements Supplementary Information 51 Shareholder Information 53 Principal Subsidiaries 55 Index 56 Glossary www.
com 27 Board of Directors The right team 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 Board of Directors Name: 1.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Title & Age Chairman, 58 Title & Age Corporate Development Director, 41 Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007 Appointment Appointed to the Board, July 2007 Non-Executive Director from March 2000 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Chairman of Nominations Committee and Member of the membership membership Remuneration Committee Skills and Alison has responsibility for strategic planning and business Skills and Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC, Chief experience development, as well as for Corporate Affairs.
Alison joined the experience Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass Brewers and Bass Group in 1999 and has held a number of senior roles including, International Brewers.
He was then Vice President UK and Director of Finance and Planning and Director of rest of Western Ireland for Interbrew SA until August 2001.
Previously she was with  Executive of Taylor Woodrow International Housing and External Currently no external Director appointments Development from 2001 to 2005 appointments External Currently Non-Executive Chairman and Director of McBride appointments PLC, Collins Stewart PLC and Tomkins PLC Name: 2.
David Cresswell, C ENG, MIEE Title & Age Chief Executive, 57 Title & Age Manufacturing Director, 62 Appointment Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996 Appointment Appointed to the Board, June 2003 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Chief Executives Committee membership membership Skills and Gareth led the successful Hanson demerger and subsequent Skills and David has undertaken a number of senior management experience listings on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
With 35 experience roles across the Group.
An electrical engineer by background years experience across all aspects of the Company, he has played he has previously held the position of Managing Director for a key role in the development of general strategy and the Groups each of Imperial Tobaccos major operating divisions, namely ongoing expansion programme cigarette, rolling papers and roll your own tobacco External Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003 External Currently no external Director appointments appointments appointments Name: 3.
Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA Name: 7.
Anthony Alexander, FCA Title & Age Finance Director, 54 Title & Age Vice Chairman, 69 Appointment Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996 Appointment Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger in October 1996 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Nominations Committee membership membership Skills and Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Limited Skills and Anthony was appointed Vice Chairman on demerger with experience from November 1989 and one of the three-man Hanson team experience Hanson in 1996.
Previously he was an Executive Director of involved in the strategic reorganisation of the Group.
Since then Hanson PLC with responsibility for all UK operating companies he has played an integral part in shaping the strategic direction while serving as Chief Operating officer of the Group External Currently no external Director appointments External Currently no external Director appointments appointments appointments Name: 4.
Pierre Jungels, CBE HON, C ENG, PHD Title & Age Group Sales and Marketing Director, 60 Title & Age Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 63 Appointment Appointed to the Board, October 2005 Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, August 2002 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member membership membership of the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee Skills and Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing activities.
Skills and Pierre has held numerous senior international positions experience With over 39 years experience with the Group he has held a experience within the oil industry with Shell International, Petrona SA number of senior sales and marketing positions, including and British Gas PLC.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in Managing Director UK and Regional Director for 1996, leading the business to substantial geographic and Western Europe financial growth until retirement in November 2001 External Currently no external Director appointments External Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director of Baker appointments appointments Hughes Inc. Non-Executive Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc and Rockhopper Exploration PLC and a NonExecutive Director of Woodside Petroleum Ltd 28 28 Imperial T Imperial Tobacco Gr obacco Group PLC 2007 oup PLC 2007 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 Name: 9.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD Name: 13.
Mark Williamson, CA SA Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 55 Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 49 Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, April 2006 Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, July 2007 Committee Nominations Committee Committee Chairman of Audit Committee: and Member of the membership membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee Skills and Ken was President, Asia Pacic of Allied Domecq from Skills and Mark has considerable international financial and general experience 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005.
He joined International Power in 2000 to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior management positions as Group Financial Controller and was appointed to the Board in the Asia Pacic region with Seagram, Interbrew and as Chief Financial officer in 2003.
Previously, he was Group International Distillers & Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at Simon Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals storage group External Currently serves on the Board of ID Lanka Ltd appointments External Currently serves on the Board of International Power appointments Company Secretary Name: 10.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 54 Name: 14.
Matthew Phillips, LLB Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, July 2007 Title & Age Company Secretary, 37 Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Appointment Appointed Company Secretary, October 2004 membership Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Secretary to and Skills and Michael was formerly Company Secretary, General Counsel membership Member of the Chief Executives Committee: Secretary to the experience and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall Audit and Remuneration Committees responsibility for corporate acquisitions and divestments and Skills and Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos legal department in has extensive experience of both private and public market experience 2000 and was closely involved in negotiations for the transactions acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma.
Previously External Currently serves on the Board of Compass Partners he worked for law rms Linklaters and Burges Salmon appointments International LLP External Currently no external Director appointments appointments Name: 11.
Charles Knott, FCMA Chief Executives Committee Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 52 Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, April 2006 Name: 15.
Kathryn Turner Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Title & Age Group Human Resources Director, 52 membership Remuneration Committee Appointment Appointed Group Human Resources Director in 2002 Skills and Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007 Committee Chief Executives Committee experience Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, ICIs membership avours and fragrances business.
Previously fullled a variety Skills and Kathryn is responsible for all aspects of human resource of international assignments as a long term executive at experience management across the Group.
She joined in 2002 from National Starch, a Unilever company until 1997 Somereld PLC, where she was a member of the PLC Board.
External Currently CEO of Flint Group She has also held a number of senior operational consulting appointments roles in change management in the FMCG sector External Currently no external Director appointments appointments Name: 12.
Susan Murray Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 50 Name: 16.
Gary Aldridge, MBA Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, December 2004 Title & Age Manufacturing Director Designate, 54 Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Appointment 1 January 2008 membership Remuneration Committee Committee Chief Executives Committee Skills and Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited from membership experience October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief Executive Skills and Gary will succeed David Cresswell as Manufacturing of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Prior to this she was worldwide experience Director on 1 January 2008.
Gary was Regional Operations President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, Director Far East, Eastern Europe, Africa and Middle East.
a part of Diageo plc Previously, he was Director of Operations, Central and Eastern External Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL International Europe.
He held a number of senior manufacturing roles in appointments PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group RJ Reynolds International before joining Reemtsma in 2001 PLC.
Previously Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset External Currently no external Director appointments Management PLC.
Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts appointments and council member of the Advertising Standards Authority www.
com 29 Summary Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements for the year to 30 September 2007 Annual Review.
Business Review A review of the Groups activities and future developments, which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, including the financial performance during the year, key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is included in the Business Review section on pages 6 to 29.
The purpose of the Business Review is to provide information to the members of the Company.
The Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Company and the Group as a whole.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Review and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Review should be construed as a profit forecast.
Financial Results and Dividends The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was 905 million as shown in the summary consolidated income statement set out on page 42.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: In s million 2007 2006 Ordinary Shares Interim paid, 21.0p per share 2006: 18.5p 141 127 Proposed final, 48.5p per share 2006: 43.5p 326 293 Total ordinary dividends, 69.5p 2006: 62.0p 467 420 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 15 February 2008 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 18 January 2008.
The associated ex-dividend date is 16 January 2008.
Summary Financial Statements The Summary Financial Statements are a summary of information in the Annual Report and Accounts and Directors Remuneration Report 2007.
As such they do not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company and the Group as a whole as would be provided by the full Financial Statements and Remuneration Report.
For further information the full Annual Accounts, the Auditors Report on those accounts, and the Directors Report should be consulted.
Those shareholders who receive only the Annual Review but would like to receive, free of charge, the Annual Report and Accounts for this year and or future years should write to the Companys Registrars or Citibank Shareholder Services, the ADR Depositary, addresses for whom are shown on page 51.
The Annual Report and Accounts are also available on line at www.
Auditors The Auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either section 237 2 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and returns or section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 January 2008, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this Annual Review.
30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Independent Auditors statement to the members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC We have examined the Summary Financial Statement of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summarised Annual report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Summarised Annual report with the Annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summarised Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies within the Summary Financial Statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Financial Statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Bristol 31 October 2007 www.
com 31 Summary Corporate Governance Report continued The Board of Directors the Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions and Compliance Throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Report, the Group has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2003 with the exception of Code provision A.
This provision specifies that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
This non compliance, from 2 January 2007, resulted from the Boards decision to retain Mr. A G L Alexander on the Board to ensure continuity at senior Board level during the Chairmans early tenure and the resignation of Mr C R Day as a consequence of his overall business commitments.
As planned the Board regained compliance on 1 July 2007 following the appointment of two additional independent Non-Executive Directors, Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson.
The Code was further revised in 2006 the 2006 Code.
As the Company is required to report under the Code it has adopted the revised provisions of the 2006 Code early.
The Company was, therefore, technically in breach of Code provision B.
2.1 as, since his appointment as Chairman, Mr I J G Napier has remained a member of the Remuneration Committee.
As Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC, the Group is also required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including section 404.
The Group has, however, taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth Brands Inc. during its first year since acquisition.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and seeks to maintain high standards of management of the affairs of Group.
Accordingly both the Board and its Audit Committee have continued to keep under review the Groups entire system of internal control, encompassing both financial and operational controls, as well as compliance and risk management.
Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place across the whole Group.
During the course of the year, business reviews of the Groups operations and reviews performed in conformance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been performed as part of the Group Compliance Functions programme of activity.
This has highlighted a small number of controls requiring minor remediation work, which is currently being completed.
Update on Ongoing Enquiries Certain elements of the previously reported investigations initiated by German authorities in January 2003 are ongoing.
These investigations concern alleged foreign trading and related violations by a number of people, including former Reemtsma employees, during a period prior to Reemtsmas acquisition by Imperial Tobacco.
As also previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial Tobacco and a number of other companies to the UK Office of Fair Trading the OFT in October 2003 in relation to an OFT investigation into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain.
Further information was supplied in April 2005 but to date no substantive response to any of the information submitted has been received from the OFT.
The OFTs investigation is ongoing.
In the event that the OFT decides that a company has infringed UK competition law, it may impose a fine.
Further details relating to the investigations and enquiry are within the Annual Report and Accounts which is available on line at www.
32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Board and Board Committee Structure Board Governance Summary Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Shareholders PLC Board of Directors The Board of Directors met nine times during the year.
The full Board manages overall control of Group affairs including responsibility for: Commercial strategy Approval of financial statements Major acquisitions and disposals Authority levels for expenditure Treasury and risk management policies Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee The Audit Committee met The Remuneration The Nominations four times during the year.
Committee met five times Committee met three times Its responsibilities include: during the year.
Its Monitoring internal responsibilities include: responsibilities include: control Determining Evaluation of skills, Approving the Groups remuneration levels for knowledge and accounting policies the Chairman, Executive experience of the Board Reviewing financial Directors, and members Formulation of statements of the Chief Executives succession plans Reviewing the external Committee Development of role Oversight of senior specifications and Audit plan and Group management making of Compliance work plan remuneration recommendations with Review of Auditor Oversight of the Groups regard to the independence employee share plans appointment of Directors Monitoring the Groups Approval of the Directors Succession plans for Public Interest Disclosure Remuneration Report senior executives Whistleblowing policy Chief Executives Committee The Chief Executives Committee met ten times during the year.
This is the senior management steering committee for the Company.
Its responsibilities include: Implementing Group strategy Monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business For more information visit www.
com 33 Summary Corporate Governance Report continued Structure of the Board and Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors G Davis Member R Dyrbus Member G L Blashill Member A J Cooper Member D Cresswell Member Non-Executive Directors I J G Napier Chairman Member Chairman A G L Alexander Vice Chairman Member K M Burnett Member Member M H C Herlihy Member Member Member Member P H Jungels Senior Independent Director Member Member Chairman Member C F Knott Member Member Member Member S E Murray Member Member Member Member M D Williamson Member Chairman Member Member Secretary M R Phillips Secretary Secretary Secretary Secretary Board Structure The Board considers that all eight Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman remain independent for the purposes of the NYSE Corporate Governance rules and all seven Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman as required by the Code remain independent for the purposes of the Code.
However, recognising the general external focus under the Code on directors who have served in excess of nine years, the Company has not, since September 2006, classified Mr A G L Alexander for the purposes of the Code as an independent Director when determining the composition of the Board and its Committees.
As announced previously, Mr A G L Alexander will remain on the Board until the Companys 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Mr A G L Alexander is not a member of any of the Board Committees other than the Nominations Committee.
The Directors biographies, appearing on pages 28 and 29, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and the wider Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector, together with a range of business and financial experience which is vital to the management of an expanding international company.
The biographies also include details of any other major directorships.
On 1 July 2007 Mrs A J Cooper joined the Board as Corporate Development Director and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors and will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election.
In addition, Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus and Ms S E Murray retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr I J G Napier succeeded Mr D C Bonham as Chairman on 2 January 2007.
Mr C R Day resigned, as a consequence of his overall business commitments, from the Board with effect from 16 February 2007 and Dr F A Rogerson resigned, for personal and private reasons, from the Board with effect from 27 June 2007.
Mr D Cresswell has confirmed to the Board that he intends to retire on 31 December 2007.
The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Performance Evaluation During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally reviewed and evaluated its own performance together with the performance of its Committees and individual Directors.
Following these reviews the Board and its Committees are satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively and that, notwithstanding the continued changes in Board membership, there remains a high degree of Board unity.
No fundamental issues or training needs that require addressing were identified and the Board is also satisfied that each of the current Directors has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute effectively to the Board and its Committees.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus, together with Ms S E Murray should stand for re-election, and that Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson should stand for election, at the 2008 AGM.
34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Remuneration Strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees at all levels across the Group while ensuring that there is a clear link between reward and performance.
The Group, therefore, sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which it operates.
To assist in communicating this strategy, senior employees were issued with total reward statements.
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity and encourages them to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of employee share plans the majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans, with in excess of 38 per cent of the eligible population participating in one or more of those plans.
Executive Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee.
The package is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
Notwithstanding the Companys continued outperformance of the FTSE 100 as shown in the graph on page 36 the executive remuneration policy continues to be set to provide base salary at around the median level of the comparator group, as set out below, while providing the Executive Directors and Chief Executives Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
The executive remuneration policy combines short term and long term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, performance related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits.
Key Elements of Directors Remuneration Package in the Financial Year to 30 September 2007 2 Element Objective Award level Performance criteria Performance period 1 Base salary.
Reward high performing Median of FTSE 50 excluding N A. N A. employees reflecting market companies in the Financial value of role and individuals and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Annual cash Incentivise delivery of Maximum percentage of Adjusted EPS growth.
base salary: Chief Executive and Finance Director 100%, other Executive Directors 75%.
Share matching Incentivise delivery of improved May elect to invest some or all Adjusted EPS growth.
Group adjusted EPS and align of gross bonus in shares.
These with interests of shareholders.
Long term Incentivise long term delivery Percentage of base salary: 3 elements 3 years.
of TSR and EPS adjusted for Chief Executive 200%, Finance 50% adjusted EPS certain items and align with Director 150%, other Executive growth interests of shareholders.
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 25% TSR vs. 3 comparator group.
2 The performance criteria have been chosen to reflect the Groups Key Performance Indicators and to align remuneration with the interests of shareholders.
The Auditors perform agreed upon procedures on the EPS calculations and Auditors Limited perform the TSR calculations prior to review by the Audit Committee.
3 The comparator group comprises: Altria Group Inc, British American Tobacco plc, Carlsberg A S, Diageo PLC, Heineken N. V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, Interbrew S. A. Japan Tobacco Inc. Pernod Riccard S. A. Reynolds American Inc, SAB Miller PLC and Scottish & Newcastle PLC.
Following Japan Tobaccos acquisition of Gallaher Group PLC and the Companys proposed acquisition of Altadis, they have been replaced in the comparator group by Japan Tobacco Inc. and Heineken N. V. respectively.
com 35 Summary Corporate Governance Report continued Evidence of the Groups sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below.
Total return indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 300 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 200 100 0 30 Sep 02 30 Sep 03 30 Sep 04 30 Sep 05 29 Sep 06 28 Sep 07 Executive Directors Service Agreements The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from Hanson Group and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect that.
The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Companys established policy that Executive Directors have service agreements which are terminable on no more than one years notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements, save as set out in the table below.
The Executive Directors service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and, save in the limited respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every case.
The Groups policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid monthly in arrears.
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, redundancy or on a change of control, on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individuals full award lapses.
Executive Directors Service Agreements Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable during the notice period.
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
Mr D Cresswell 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
1 Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
1 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
2 LTIP, SMS and CSMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year on annual vesting, including the vesting of the Centenary Share Matching Scheme.
3 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
4 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employement will terminate.
5 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 10,000.
6 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007.
7 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007.
8 Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006.
However, Mr S Huismans continues to receive fees in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
9 Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005.
10 Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005 and subsequently left the Company on 30 April 2005 and received payment in lieu of notice which was subject to his duty to mitigate.
11 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
12 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.
2 Or date of resignation if earlier.
5 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007.
6 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007.
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2007.
Auditor Independence Policy The Groups Auditor Independence Policy provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired.
The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform, and establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of the external Auditors.
This policy is published on the Groups website, www.
38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Internal Control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in the Code from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Group Compliance Function and external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee, regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control.
It confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
The Group has established control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance, and to comply with any relevant US governance and control provisions.
The provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require US listed companies to adopt a generally accepted framework of control, advocating the Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO as appropriate.
The Group considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfies the requirements of both the Turnbull guidance and COSO.
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk Assessment: x The Group has clearly set out its strategic objectives as part of its medium term planning process.
These objectives are incorporated as part of the annual planning cycle: x A detailed assessment of strategic risks was undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium term planning and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles: x All areas of the business undertook risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks were reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from each of the business operations identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such risks.
This review is ongoing throughout all business operations of the Group to ensure that there continues to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk exposure so identified: x The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
The Group Compliance Function formally reported at each Audit Committee meeting the outcome of its ongoing activities, including its programme of reviews relating to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and any more general business reviews.
These reports have supported the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within the business operations.
In this way, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Groups exposure to major business risks is minimised such that the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group: x Notwithstanding that the Group has taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth Brands in the first year after acquisition, the Group is integrating Commonwealth Brands within its overall control framework: and x A summary of the principal risks facing the business is included on page 12. www.
com 39 Summary Corporate Governance Report continued Control Environment and Control Activities: x The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having their own management and control structures which satisfy the Groups controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities: x The Board continually reviews the Groups organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place to fulfil their roles.
Such delegated authority ensures that decisions, significant either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level: x The Board has formally adopted, and annually reviews, the schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision: x The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board which personnel are expected to comply with.
These cover key issues such as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance and health, safety and environmental issues.
This framework of policies and procedures, which has been developed and issued, with consistent communication throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite control guidance and remains pertinent to the Groups business activities: x A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees or others relating to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether financial or non-financial commonly referred to as Whistleblowing arrangements operates throughout the Group: x The Group has an established and consistent methodology for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations and identifying significant risk issues associated therewith.
Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with each significant risk that has been identified, including not only internal controls but also other external measures such as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies: x There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including acquisitions: x The Groups treasury function operates within a well defined policy designed to control the Groups financing arrangements and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through treasury instruments: and x The Board reviews annually the Groups Treasury and Tax functions and Occupational, Health, Safety and Environmental matters.
Information and communication: x Each area of the business produced detailed financial plans, prior to the start of the financial year, which were reviewed for robustness and realism: and x A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, ensured that major variances against plan were promptly and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews were conducted at a detailed level within each function and at a high level by the Chief Executives Committee.
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, were assessed on a regular basis using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
Monitoring: x A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group.
These included independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks and relevant controls.
Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective systems of internal control, in accordance with the Groups policies and covering all business activities both financial and non-financial, have been maintained within their area of responsibility: x The Group Compliance Functions responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, focusing on those areas of greatest perceived risk to the Group: x Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls as identified by the independent reviews of the Group Compliance Function: and x As a consequence of its US listing, the Group is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Testing of the 2007 year end controls is still ongoing at the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year ended 30 September 2007, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Code and Turnbull guidance.
Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above, and review of the Groups financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pension Fund The Groups main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees consisting of five nominees from the Company: one member of which is chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the funds Rules and for no other purpose.
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Requirements As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE listing standards relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies, but is exempt from others.
There is an obligation to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time, the Group believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the relevant NYSE listing standards.
The Board develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group.
In addition, the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent Group Compliance Function.
Communication with Shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
All material documents including the Annual Report and Form 20-F together with announcements, investor presentations and share price information are published on the Imperial Tobacco website, www.
Currently all shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, and submitting proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including the ability to abstain if desired.
The amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to be proposed at the AGM in 2008, will allow the Company to benefit from the wider provisions under the Companies Act 2006 relating to communicating electronically with shareholders and will allow the Company to use its website to communicate with shareholders to a greater extent than currently possible.
In addition, at the AGM in 2007 individual shareholders received presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the Groups performance and current business activities and were given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and other Directors.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject, with all resolutions put to a poll.
The Company indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed during its AGMs, together with the number of votes for, against and withheld for each such resolution.
After the conclusion of the meeting the final results are published through a regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
com 41 Summary Financial Statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 2007 Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September In s million Notes 2007 2006 Revenue 1 12,344 11,676 Duty and similar items 1 9,064 8,514 Other cost of sales 990 1,013 Cost of sales 10,054 9,527 Gross profit 2,290 2,149 Distribution, advertising and selling costs 659 627 Administrative expenses 213 211 Profit from operations 1 1,418 1,311 Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 1,356 Amortisation of acquired trademarks 23 Restructuring costs 2 45 Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 34 Investment income 3 318 283 Finance costs 3 499 426 Net finance costs 3 181 143 Adjusted net finance costs 237 188 Retirement benefits net financing income 54 46 Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 2 1 Profit before taxation 1,237 1,168 Taxation 4 325 310 Profit for the year 912 858 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 905 851 Minority interests 7 7 Earnings per ordinary share Basic 6 134.3 p 122.2 p Diluted 6 133.7 p 121.6 p All activities derive from continuing operations.
42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Summary Financial Statements Consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2007 September September In s million 2007 2006 Non-current assets Intangible assets 4,950 3,910 Property, plant and equipment 640 580 Investments in associates 4 5 Retirement benefit assets 602 397 Trade and other receivables 7 19 Deferred tax assets 52 71 6,255 4,982 Current assets Inventories 998 789 Trade and other receivables 1,254 1,067 Current tax assets 50 13 Cash and cash equivalents 380 263 Derivative financial instruments 71 29 2,753 2,161 Total assets 9,008 7,143 Current liabilities Borrowings 1,067 1,122 Derivative financial instruments 219 119 Trade and other payables 1,593 1,433 Current tax liabilities 267 272 Provisions 26 56 3,172 3,002 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 4,053 2,930 Trade and other payables 5 5 Deferred tax liabilities 208 135 Retirement benefit liabilities 397 434 Provisions 32 39 4,695 3,543 Total liabilities 7,867 6,545 Net assets 1,141 598 Equity Share capital 73 73 Share premium account 964 964 Retained earnings 58 423 Exchange translation reserve 23 35 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,118 579 Minority interests 23 19 Total equity 1,141 598 www.
com 43 Summary Financial Statements Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 30 September 2007 Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September In s million 2007 2006 Exchange movements 58 54 Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits 202 100 Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement benefits 59 24 Deferred tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity 7 Current tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity 5 Net income recognised directly in equity 206 29 Profit for the year 912 858 Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,118 887 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 1,111 880 Minority interests 7 7 Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,118 887 Consolidated cash ow statement for the year ended 30 September 2007 Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September In s million Notes 2007 2006 Cash flows from operating activities 8 999 1,155 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 15 13 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 128 75 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5 15 Purchase of intangible assets software 5 7 Purchase of intangible assets trademarks 5 368 Purchase of businesses net of cash acquired 7 966 68 Net cash used in investing activities 1,084 490 Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid 227 199 Purchase of treasury shares 105 556 Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 7 7 Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 55 55 Increase in borrowings 2,324 1,356 Repayment of borrowings 1,317 795 Dividends paid to minority interests 4 7 Dividends paid to shareholders 434 406 Net cash generated by used in financing activities 189 655 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 104 10 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 263 257 Effect of foreign exchange rates 13 4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 380 263 44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Summary Financial Statements Notes to the summary financial statements 1.
Segmental information The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
The management structure is based on geographical regions.
These geographical regions of UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe, US and Rest of the World have been used as the primary reporting segments.
The manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products is a single integrated business and as a consequence, the Group has only one business segment and no secondary segment disclosure has been made.
Central costs are allocated to segments on the basis of net revenue.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have reclassied the results of our Austrian business from Germany to Rest of the World to reect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group.
The results for 2006 have been restated accordingly.
Similarly the 2006 results of our US business have been reclassied from Rest of the World to US as the US segment has been introduced following the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
Geographical consolidated income statement by destination of sales 2007 Duty and Profit from In s million Revenue similar items Net revenue operations UK 4,842 3,966 876 555 Germany 2,645 2,121 524 232 Rest of Western Europe 1,746 1,111 635 319 US 266 149 117 35 Rest of the World 2,845 1,717 1,128 277 12,344 9,064 3,280 1,418 2006 Duty and Profit from In s million Revenue similar items Net revenue operations UK 4,762 3,927 835 496 Germany 2,698 2,123 575 239 Rest of Western Europe 1,647 1,010 637 321 US 14 14 4 Rest of the World 2,555 1,454 1,101 251 11,676 8,514 3,162 1,311 Geographical reconciliation from profit from operations to adjusted profit from operations by destination of sales Fair value changes on derivative Adjusted 2007 Profit from Amortisation Restructuring financial profit from In s million operations of trademarks costs instruments operations UK 555 9 564 Germany 232 6 238 Rest of Western Europe 319 7 326 US 35 17 52 Rest of the World 277 6 12 295 1,418 23 34 1,475 Fair value changes on derivative Adjusted 2006 Profit from Amortisation Restructuring financial profit from In s million operations of trademarks costs instruments operations UK 496 n a 10 506 Germany 239 n a 31 270 Rest of Western Europe 321 n a 3 324 US 4 n a 4 Rest of the World 251 n a 1 252 1,311 n a 45 1,356 Amortisation of trademarks relates principally to Commonwealth Brands trademarks acquired in 2007 and trademarks acquired in Australia and New Zealand in 1999.
Adjusted profit from operations has not been restated for 2006 as the trademark amortisation effect was not significant in that year.
com 45 Summary Financial Statements Notes to the summary financial statements continued 2.
Restructuring costs In s million 2007 2006 Employment related mainly termination 23 Fixed asset write offs and impairment 17 Other operating charges 5 45 There were no restructuring costs in the year ended 30 September 2007.
In 2006 restructuring costs were primarily in respect of the closure of our Liverpool and Lahr factories.
Net finance costs In s million 2007 2006 Interest on bank deposits 14 13 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 203 188 Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 101 82 Investment income 318 283 Interest on bank and other loans 251 201 Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 149 142 Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 99 83 Finance costs 499 426 Net finance costs 181 143 Reconciliation from net finance costs to adjusted net finance costs In s million 2007 2006 Reported net finance costs 181 143 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 203 188 Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 149 142 Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 101 82 Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 99 83 Adjusted net finance costs 237 188 4.
Taxation Analysis of charge in the year In s million 2007 2006 Current tax UK corporation tax at 30% 2006: 30% 120 148 Overseas taxation 172 164 Total current tax 292 312 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33 2 Total tax charge 325 310 Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported profit before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure of earnings disclosed in note 6.
In s million 2007 2006 Reported taxation 325 310 Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired trademarks 10 Tax on restructuring costs 16 Tax on retirement benefits net financing income 15 16 Tax on fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 10 Adjusted tax charge 310 310 46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Summary Financial Statements 5.
Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year In s million 2007 2006 Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2006 of 43.5p per share 2005: 39.5p 293 279 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 21.0p per share 2006: 18.5p 141 127 434 406 A final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 48.5 pence per share has been proposed.
This amounts to 326 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2007.
At the year end, the shareholders had not yet approved the final dividend and therefore it is not included in the balance sheet as a liability.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Groups employee share schemes and shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised.
No instruments have been excluded from the calculation on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
In s million 2007 2006 Earnings: basic and diluted 905 851 In millions of shares Weighted average number of shares: Shares for basic earnings per share 673.8 696.3 Potentially dilutive share options 2.9 3.3 Shares for diluted earnings per share 676.7 699.6 In pence Basic earnings per share 134.3 122.2 Diluted earnings per share 133.7 121.6 Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share 2007 2006 In s million unless otherwise indicated EPS Earnings EPS Earnings Reported basic 134.3 p 905 122.2 p 851 Amortisation of acquired trademarks 4.9 p 33 n a n a Restructuring costs p 4.2 p 29 Retirement benefits net financing income 5.8 p 39 4.3 p 30 Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 3.3 p 22 0.1 p 1 Adjusted 136.7 p 921 122.2 p 851 www.
com 47 Summary Financial Statements Notes to the summary financial statements continued 7.
Acquisitions 2007 On 2 April 2007, the Group acquired from Houchens Industries Inc 100% of the share capital of CBHC Inc, which trades as Commonwealth Brands and manufactures and sells quality discount cigarettes across the United States.
The acquired business contributed revenue of 252 million and profit from operations of 35 million after charging trademark amortisation of 17 million in the period from 2 April 2007 to 30 September 2007.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2006, Group revenue would have been 12,561 million and Group profit from operations for the year would have amounted to 1,446 million, these amounts having been estimated by including Commonwealth Brands results for the six months prior to acquisition adjusted to reect the Groups accounting policies and changes in depreciation and amortisation due to fair value adjustments.
During the year the Group also acquired interests in a number of small businesses including in January 2007 a controlling interest in Tremaco, a tobacco and tobacco-related products distribution business based in Estonia.
The aggregate consideration for these acquisitions amounted to 1 million.
Full IFRS disclosures have not been provided for these small acquisitions as they are not considered to be significant to the Group as a whole.
Details of Commonwealth Brands net assets acquired are as follows: Fair value Fair value In s million Book value adjustments under IFRS Trademarks 163 507 670 Property, plant and equipment 14 4 10 Inventories 37 37 Trade and other receivables 6 6 Unrestricted cash 29 29 Restricted cash 123 123 Trade and other payables 177 4 181 Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands 194 194 Borrowings 279 279 Net assets acquired 278 499 221 Goodwill 305 Total consideration 526 The fair value adjustment in respect of trademarks relates to Commonwealth Brands cigarette brands, principally USA Gold and Sonoma, which have been independently valued using the income method.
The trademarks are being amortised over their estimated useful lives of 20 years.
Goodwill represents a strategic premium to immediately establish critical mass in the US market and acquire assembled sales, manufacturing and distribution workforces.
Consideration for Commonwealth Brands satisfied by: In s million Cash 516 Direct costs related to the acquisition 10 Total consideration 526 The purchase price for Commonwealth Brands on a debt free basis is as follows: In s million Total consideration 526 Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands 194 Borrowings at acquisition 279 Unrestricted cash 29 Total purchase price 970 48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Summary Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued 2007 continued Cash ows relating to acquisitions were as follows: In s million Commonwealth Brands Total consideration 526 Dividend paid to Houchens at acquisition 194 Borrowings repaid at acquisition 279 Unrestricted cash acquired 29 970 Other businesses acquired 1 Total cash flows arising due to acquisitions 971 Direct costs related to Commonwealth Brands acquisition not paid at the balance sheet date 5 Acquisition cash flows reflected in investing activities in consolidated cash flow statement 966 2006 During 2006 the Group acquired interests in a number of small businesses, including in February 2006 a 100% interest in Gunnar Stenberg AS, a tobacco and tobacco-related products sales and distribution company based in Norway.
The fair and book value of the net assets acquired were 2 million, giving rise to goodwill of 11 million.
Full IFRS disclosures have not been presented as these acquisitions are not considered significant to the Group as a whole.
The acquisition of the worldwide Davidoff cigarette trademark announced in August 2006 has, in accordance with IFRS 3, not been treated as a business combination as the substance of the transaction is the purchase of an intangible asset.
In December 2005 the Group made the final payment of deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of Tobaccor SA.
Cash ows from operating activities In s million 2007 2006 Profit for the year 912 858 Adjustments for: Taxation 325 310 Finance costs 499 426 Investment income 318 283 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 115 120 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Net retirement benefits 4 5 Share-based payments 15 16 Movement in provisions 37 11 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,513 1,441 Increase decrease in inventories 141 59 Increase in trade and other receivables 149 99 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 96 10 Movement in working capital 194 50 Taxation paid 320 236 Net cash flows from operating activities 999 1,155 www.
com 49 Summary Financial Statements Notes to the summary financial statements continued 9.
Analysis of net debt The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and derivative financial instruments in the year were as follows: Derivative Cash and cash Current Non-current financial In s million equivalents borrowings borrowings instruments Total As at 1 October 2006 263 1,122 2,930 90 3,879 Exchange movements 13 17 31 1 Cash flow 104 23 1,030 903 Accretion of interest 15 62 47 Change in fair values 58 58 As at 30 September 2007 380 1,067 4,053 148 4,888 Adjusted net debt Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes the fair value of interest rate derivative financial instruments and interest accruals.
In s million 2007 2006 Reported net debt 4,888 3,879 Accrued interest 88 41 Fair value of interest rate derivatives 15 16 Adjusted net debt 4,785 3,822 10.
Purchase of treasury shares During the year the Group continued its share buyback programme purchasing 5,713,000 ordinary shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a total cost of 105 million including expenses.
The total number of shares held in treasury is 51,717,000 representing 7.1% of the issued share capital.
The total cost, including expenses, of shares held in treasury is 862 million.
The shares purchased to date have not been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve and represent a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
The share buyback programme was suspended on 8 February 2007 following the announcement of the agreement to acquire Commonwealth Brands.
50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Supplementary Information Shareholder information Registered ofce PO Box 244 Upton Road Bristol BS99 7UJ 44 0 117 963 6636 Registered in England and Wales No: 3236483 Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA 0870 241 3932 44 0 121 415 7009 0870 600 3950 text phone for shareholders with hearing difficulties ADR Depositary Shareholder Services for ADR Holders Citibank Shareholder Services PO Box 43077 Providence, RI 02940-3077 USA Toll-free number in the US:1-877-CITI-ADR 877-248-4237 email: citibank@shareholders-online.
com Stockbrokers Hoare Govett Limited 250 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4AA 44 0 20 7678 8000 Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 20 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QW 44 0 20 7425 8000 Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 31 Great George Street Bristol BS1 5QD Lawyers Ashurst Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA Allen & Overy One Bishop Square London E1 6AO Financial advisers CitiGroup CitiGroup Centre 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB www.
com 51 Supplementary Information Shareholder information continued Financial Calendar and Dividends Interim results are expected to be announced in May 2008 and the full years results in November 2008.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on Tuesday, 29 January 2008 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre.
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with this report.
Dividends are generally paid in August and February.
Payment of the 2007 final dividend, if approved, will be on 15 February 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 January 2008.
The associated ex dividend date is 16 January 2008.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable from Equiniti, at the address shown.
Share Dealing Service A low cost, execution-only, postal dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares has been set up by Hoare Govett Limited.
Commission is 1 per cent with a minimum charge of 15.
For details please contact Hoare Govett Limited at the address shown.
This service is restricted to UK residents only and transactions are limited to 15,000 approximately 10,000.
Hoare Govett Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Individual Savings Account ISA Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account ISA, dedicated to Imperial Tobacco Group shares operated by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Details of the ISA can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, tel: 0870 242 4244. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy further shares in the market.
Further information can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, tel: 0870 241 3018.
American Depositary Receipt Facility Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs using the symbol ITY.
Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares.
The ADS facility is administered by Citibank N. A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown.
International Direct Investment Program Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs have been included in the Citibank International Direct Investment Program which provides registered holders and interested investors with a convenient way to purchase and sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs.
To obtain further information about the International Direct Investment Program, please call Citibank N. A. the administrator and sponsor at 1-800-808-8010 toll-free in the USA.
Website Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.
Equiniti also offer a range of shareholder information online.
You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices and dividend details and nd practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.
52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Summary Financial Statements Principal Subsidiaries The principal wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are unlisted, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Sinclair Collis Limited Cigarette vending in the UK Incorporated overseas Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Commonwealth Brands Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the United States of America Dunkerquoise des Blends S. A. France Tobacco processing in France Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Gunnar Stenberg AS, Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway Imperial Tobacco Asia Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco CR s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Imperial Tobacco France S. A. S. France Marketing of tobacco products in France Imperial Tobacco Hellas S. A. Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece Imperial Tobacco Italy Srl, Italy Marketing of tobacco products in Italy Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmaz Kft, Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Overseas B. V. the Netherlands Finance company Imperial Tobacco Sigara five Tutunculuck Sanayi five Ticaret A. S. Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A. S. Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis five Pazarlama A. S. Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany and export of tobacco products Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia OOO Reemtsma, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Tobaccor S. A. S. France Holding investments in subsidiary companies Van Nelle Canada Limited, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands www.
com 53 Summary Financial Statements Principal Subsidiaries continued All of the wholly owned subsidiaries were held throughout the year except for Commonwealth Brands Inc which was acquired on 2 April 2007 note 24 and Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited which was incorporated on 6 March 2007.
The principal partly owned subsidiaries of the Group, held throughout the year, are shown below.
All are unlisted unless otherwise indicated.
Incorporated overseas Percentage 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.9 products in Poland Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8 Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 98.7 products in Kyrgyzstan Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 43.0 products in Sweden 2 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A.
Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 74.1 products in the Ivory Coast v Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products 76.5 in Slovenia Tutunski Kombinat AD, Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.1 products in Macedonia v 1 The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. in which the Group holds a 99% interest.
2 Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Supplementary Information Index A F R Acquisitions 15, 48 Financial Calendar 52 Regional Performance 15 Adjusted Measures 56 Financial Highlights IFCRegistrars 51 Africa 23 Financial Review 14 Regulation 6, 9, 12 Altadis 6, 7, 13 Framework Convention on Remuneration Committee 33 American Depositary Tobacco Control 9 Rest of the World 22 Receipts Shares 52France 19 Rest of Western Europe 19 Annual General Meeting 52 Restructuring Costs 46 G Asia 22 Risk Assessment 39 Germany 18 Audit Committee 33 Risks and Uncertainties 12 Glossary 56 Australia 22 Russia 22 Greece 19 B Group Performance 2 S Balance Sheet 43 Sales Development 11 H Belgium 19 Saudi Arabia 22 Health, Safety and Environment 26 Board Committees 33 Segmental Information 45 Hungary 22 Board of Directors 28 Senegal 23 Burkina Faso 23 Share Buybacks 50 I Business Overview 2 Shareholder Information 51 Income Statement 42 Slovakia 22 Ireland 19 C Slovenia 22 Italy 19 Cash Flow from Operating Activities 49 Smoking in Public Places 9 Ivory Coast 22 Cash Flow Statement 44 Spain 19 Cash Management 11 K Statement of Recognised Caucasus 22 Key Performance Indicators 13 Income and Expense 44 Chairmans Statement 4 Strategy 11 L Chief Executives Committee 29, 33 Summary Financial Statements 42 Laos 22 Chief Executives Strategic Review 6 Litigation 10, 12 China 22 T Community Investment 26 Taiwan 22 M Contents IFC Taxation 14, 46 Madagascar 23 Corporate Governance Report, Total Shareholder Return Index 5 Manufacturing 23 Summary 32 Travel Retail 19 Master Settlement Agreement 6, 20 Corporate Responsibility 25 Turkey 22 Middle East 23 Cost Optimisation 11 U Czech Republic 22 N Ukraine 22 Net Debt 50 D UAE 23 Net Finance Costs 14, 46 Debt 14, 50 United Kingdom 17 Netherlands 19 Directors United States 20 New Zealand 22 Biographies 28 Nominations Committee 33 V Interests in Shares 38 Norway 22 Vietnam 22 Remuneration 35 Notes to the Summary Report, Summary 30 W Financial Statements 45 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP 52 World Tobacco Market 8 Dividends 14, 47 O Duty Free 23 Operating Environment 9 Operating Review 16 E Outlook 7, 17, 23 Earnings Per Share 14, 47 Estonia 22 P Excise Duty 10 Pension Fund 41 Pictorial Health Warnings 10 Principal Subsidiaries 53 Productivity 23 Poland 22 Portugal 19 www.
com 55 Supplementary Information Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Earnings per share diluted MYO Adjusted profit after tax attributable to the As for Basic earnings per share except Make your own: tobacco which is made equity holders of the Company divided by that the weighted average number of into a cigarette using a tube machine and the weighted average number of shares in shares includes the weighted average lter tubes.
56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 For more information visit: www.
Registered Office Imperial Tobacco Group PLC PO Box 244 Upton Road Bristol BS99 7UJ UK The paper in this report is made from www.
