Financial Statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union collectively IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policies on financial instruments, retirement benefit schemes and share schemes below.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements note on pages 76 to 77.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
This could affect future financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modied, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
Consolidated income statement presentation format We continually review the content and presentation of our financial statements to ensure compliance with relevant accounting standards and regulations and also to consider their relevance and usefulness to readers.
As a result of this ongoing review we have changed the format of our consolidated income statement from the nature of expense to the function format, also known as the cost of sales format.
Comparative data has been restated.
We believe this revised presentation will provide users of our financial statements with a better understanding of our business.
The functional presentation is also more consistent with that of our major competitors and many other European FMCG groups reporting under IFRS, and is more closely aligned with the way management reviews performance internally.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identiable assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 117 to 118.
Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates the functional currency.
The income and cash ow statements of Group companies using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling the Groups presentation currency at average rates of exchange in each period.
Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The differences between retained profits and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted by IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when treated as qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges external borrowings and permanent intragroup loans up to the value of the net assets of Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies.
Gains or losses on these hedges are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.
com 71 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing third party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Licence fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Duty and similar items Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the characteristics of duty.
In countries where duty is a production tax, duty is included in the income statement as an expense.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty is deducted from revenue.
Payments due in the United States under the Master Settlement Agreement and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act are treated as a production tax.
Taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base.
However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries including overseas subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Dividends Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised.
Previously all goodwill was written off through equity in the period of acquisition.
As permitted under IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in accordance with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying value of the Group companys assets and liabilities including the carrying amount of related goodwill.
Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible assets other These consist mainly of acquired trademarks and computer software which are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks include the Davidoff cigarette trademark which was acquired in September 2006.
The Directors are of the opinion that this trademark has an indefinite life, based on the fact that Davidoff is an established international brand with global growth potential.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Other trademarks and computer software are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
For trademarks other than Davidoff the useful life does not exceed 20 years.
Computer software is written off over a period that does not exceed five years.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown in the balance sheet at their historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with them will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
72 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Financial Statements Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 14 years straight line The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
Impairment of assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benets have expired or been transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classied as loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, and is recognised in the income statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
However, as the Group has decided not to hedge account for its derivative financial instruments as permitted under IAS 39, changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity but excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds twelve months is classied as a current asset, consistent with recognised industry practice.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly announced.
Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
com 73 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both dened benefit and dened contribution schemes.
Under a dened benefit scheme, the amount of retirement benefit that will be received by an employee is dened.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet is the difference between the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date and the fair value of the scheme assets.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows.
The service cost of providing retirement benets to employees during the year is charged to profit from operations.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straightline basis over the average vesting period.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in full in the statement of recognised income and expense for the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
A charge is also made within net finance costs for the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the year.
This arises from the schemes being one year closer to payment.
For dened contribution schemes, the Group pays a dened contribution to the scheme: there are no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
Such contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Any prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
Share-based payments The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment to share-based employee compensation schemes in respect of awards granted after 7 November 2002 which remained unvested at 1 January 2005, the dates specified in IFRS 1.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation schemes.
The cost of employees services received in exchange for the grant of rights under both types of scheme is expensed over the vesting period, and is determined by reference to the fair value of the instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions e. g. earnings per share.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable under all schemes, and re-measures the fair value of the cash-settled schemes.
The Group recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes and current liabilities for cash-settled schemes.
The fair value is measured based on an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
In order to manage the related exposure, the Group funds the purchase of the number of shares necessary to satisfy rights to shares arising under share-based employee compensation schemes.
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
No additional shares are issued as a result of the Groups share-based employee compensation schemes.
When the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of any proceeds received.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
Segmental reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment.
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
The management structure is based on geographical regions.
These geographical regions of UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe, United States and Rest of the World have been used as the primary reporting segments.
The manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobaccorelated products is a single integrated business and as a consequence, the Group has only one business segment and no secondary segment disclosure has been made.
Central costs are allocated to segments on a consistent basis of net revenue.
74 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Financial Statements The prices agreed between Group companies for intragroup sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions and fees are based on normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Use of adjusted measures Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a better comparison of business performance and reects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of profit from operations, net finance costs, profit before tax, taxation and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired trademarks, restructuring costs, retirement benets net nancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges and related taxation effects.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported profit from operations are included within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported finance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8.
The adjusted measures in this report are not dened terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are as follows: Amortisation of acquired trademarks Acquired trademarks are recognised as intangible assets, and are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these are considered to be nite.
Acquired trademarks considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised.
We exclude the amortisation of acquired trademarks and deferred tax relating to tax deductible amortisation from our adjusted earnings measures.
Restructuring costs significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, and that changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement unless the instrument qualies for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a result, the Group has decided not to apply hedge accounting as permitted under IAS 39.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments used to commercially hedge interest rate risk from adjusted net nancing costs.
We also exclude fair value gains on derivative financial instruments used to commercially hedge investments in foreign operations from adjusted profit from operations.
Retirement benefits net financing income The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement benefit liabilities are included within net finance costs.
Since these items do not impact cash ows and can be subject to significant volatility outside managements control they have been eliminated from adjusted measures of net finance costs and earnings per share.
Other non-GAAP measures used by management Net revenue Net revenue comprises revenue less duty and similar items.
The segmental analysis in note 1 includes amounts for net revenue which management regards as an important measure in assessing the profitability of operations.
Adjusted net debt Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes the fair value of interest rate derivative financial instruments and interest accruals.
New Standards and Interpretations not yet effective and not adopted early At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were issued but application was not mandatory for the period: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
