Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 4 Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on the acquisition of a business combination, management are required to make estimates when utilising the Groups valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows, revenue and gross profit multiples.
Asset lives are estimated based on the nature of the intangible asset acquired and range between 3 and 40 years.
Valuation of share-based payments In order to determine the value of share-based payments, management are required to make an estimation of the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price calculated over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The list of inputs used in the Binomial and Monte Carlo Simulation models to calculate the fair values are provided in Note 40.
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value Management have made a number of assumptions with regards to the models used to value financial instruments at their fair value at year end.
Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied.
Note 27 details the methods used to value the primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups borrowing requirements and the derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate profile.
For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
Other financial instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, where possible, by observable market prices or rates.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets There are a number of assumptions management have considered in performing impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets, as determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 16 details the assumptions that have been applied.
Pension assumptions There are a number of assumptions management have considered on the advice of actuaries which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Note 39 details the assumptions which have been adopted.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome Note 31.
