Legal Notices Notice regarding limitations on the liability of Directors under English Law Under the UK Companies Act 2006, the liability of the Directors of Informa plc is limited in respect of statements in and omissions from the Directors Report contained on pages 10 to 68.
Under English law the Directors can be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Directors Report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but can not otherwise be liable.
Pages 10 to 68 inclusive comprise the Directors Report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English law and the potential liability of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by English law.
Notice concerning forward-looking statements This Annual Report and written information released, or oral statements made, in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group warns investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk and Uncertainties on pages 51 to 53 of this Annual Report.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 143
