UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Directors Report, Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration Report disclosures have been made in the Group Annual Report of Informa plc.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
When the assets come into use, these costs are amortised over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be 3-10 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 - 15 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan, where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Investments held by the Company in subsidiaries and joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 131
