Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, which is when the strategic and operating policy decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The arrangements the Group has entered into involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest.
The Group reports its interests using proportionate consolidation and combines its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expense with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised over the term of the subscription.
Conference income is deferred and recognised when the conference is held.
Income from managed events represents fees earned and is recognised when the event is held.
Consulting and training revenues are recognised as services are delivered.
Where consultancy services are provided over a period of time, revenue is recognised using the stage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be measured reliably.
The stage to completion is determined with regard to key milestones in the contract being attained and the percentage of services performed under the contract as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Royalty revenue is recognised as the franchisee recognises their revenue.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units, as defined by the Board for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular cash generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 4.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows: Book lists 20 years Journal titles 20 - 40 years Database content and intellectual property 4 - 10 years Large scale events and exhibitions 8 - 10 years Software, which is not integral to a related item of hardware, is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
These costs are amortised over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be 3-10 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
Property and equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 - 15 years Freehold land is not depreciated The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Income Statement.
76 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Inventory Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the hedging and translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched longterm foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging and translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease and is matched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, including interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
78 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Pension costs Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each Balance Sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within Operating Profit.
The interest cost arising on the pension liability less the interest return on the scheme assets is presented within Finance Costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Income Statement and in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The expected return on scheme assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension scheme.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the Share Options and Long Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Financial Assets Financial assets are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available for sale investments.
The classification is determined by Management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments within the Group.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 79 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Available for sale investments Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 21.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income Statement for the period.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each Balance Sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 37 days 2006: 32 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
80 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured at the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 81 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 3 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Income Statement for the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 27.
ESOP trust shares Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection with certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
82 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
