Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2007 1 General Information Informa plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 49.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Corporate and Risk Information section of the Directors Report on page 48.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see Note 27.
Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - Revised IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 - Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
2 Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Management believe that adjusted operating profit Note 8 and adjusted earnings per share Note 15 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The principal adjustments made are in respect of: Restructuring costs the costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating acquired businesses, non-recurring business restructuring, closure or disposal of businesses and costs associated with Board level changes: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible fixed assets the Group continues to amortise these intangible fixed assets and test for impairment of these assets but does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading: Finance income and costs gains losses made on exchange contracts for hedging capital transactions which do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Bank facility fees written off capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but where syndicated loan facilities have been terminated early and new facilities undertaken on funding major acquisitions, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed.
This accelerated expense is not viewed as being part of operating activities and is thus excluded from the adjusted results: and Discontinuing activities where the Group is in the process of exiting a major geographical location or line of business, having announced the decision but still being in the process of winding down trade.
The Groups operations are split into three broad market sectors of Academic & Scientific, Professional, and Commercial.
These divisions are further analysed into more specific segments which bring together products in comparable market areas under common business heads.
This is how the Groups operational management is structured and its results are reviewed and thus form the primary reporting segments Note 6.
74 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
