PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC In relation to the parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report and statements consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the We have audited the parent company financial statements Highlights, Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive, of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended Business Review, Directors Report, Corporate Governance 31 December 2007 which comprise the Company balance sheet Statement, Audit Committee Report and the unaudited part of the and related notes 1 to 10.
These parent company financial Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report statements have been prepared under the accounting policies if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended Basis of audit opinion 31 December 2007.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the Companys members those matters we are required to state parent company financial statements and the part of the to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are report, or for the opinions we have formed.
appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company assurance that the parent company financial statements and financial statements in accordance with applicable United the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the parent company financial statements give a true and fair financial statements give a true and fair view and whether view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the parent company financial statements and the part of Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly as at 31 December 2007: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the parent company financial statements and the part of report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act information given in the Directors Report includes that specific 1985: and information that is cross referred from the Business review, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Directors and Employees sections of the Directors Report.
with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Ernst & Young LLP, information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Registered auditor, London.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
18 February 2008 Statement of Directors responsibilities and Independent auditors report 91
