Contacts Registered office ADR depositary 67 Alma Road JPMorgan Windsor JPMorgan Service Center Berkshire PO Box 3408 SL4 3HD South Hackensack Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 NJ 07606-3408 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 USA Telephone 1 800 990 1135 For general information about the Groups business please US callers toll free contact the Corporate Affairs department and for all other 1 201 680 6630 non-US callers enquiries please contact the Company Secretary both at Email jpmorganadr@mellon.
com Registrar Stockbrokers Equiniti JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Aspect House Merrill Lynch International Spencer Road Lancing Auditors West Sussex Ernst & Young LLP BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2132 UK callers Investment bankers 44 121 415 7034 non-UK callers www.
co. uk Citi For those with hearing difficulties Solicitors a text phone is available on Linklaters 0871 384 2255 for UK callers with compatible equipment.
Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Other telephone service providers may charge different rates.
100 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 USEFUL INFORMATION USEFUL INFORMATION Forward-looking statements Both the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 and or implied by, such forward-looking statements, including, but the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 not limited to: the risks involved with the Groups reliance on the contain certain forward-looking statements as defined under reputation of its brands and protection of its intellectual property US legislation Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 rights: the risks relating to identifying, securing and retaining with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and management and franchise agreements: the effect of political business of InterContinental Hotels Group and certain plans and and economic developments: the ability to recruit and retain key objectives of the Board of Directors of InterContinental Hotels personnel: events that adversely impact domestic or international Group PLC with respect thereto.
Such statements include, but travel, including terrorist incidents: the risks involved in the are not limited to, statements made in the Message from the Groups reliance upon its proprietary reservation system and Chairman and Chief Executive.
These forward-looking statements increased competition in reservation infrastructure: the risks can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to involved with the Groups reliance on technologies and systems: historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use the risks of the hotel industry supply and demand cycle: the words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, possible lack of selected development opportunities: the risks plan, goal, believe, or other words of similar meaning.
These related to corporate responsibility: the risk of litigation: the statements are based on assumptions and assessments made risks associated with the Groups ability to maintain adequate by InterContinental Hotels Groups management in light of their insurance: the Groups ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants: experience and their perception of historical trends, current compliance with data privacy regulations: and the risks associated conditions, expected future developments and other factors with funding the defined benefits under its pension plans.
they believe to be appropriate.
The main factors that could affect the business and financial By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently results are described in the Business Review of the Annual Report predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
There and Financial Statements 2007 and also in any Annual Report are a number of factors that could cause actual results and of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC on Form 20-F for 2007 developments to differ materially from those expressed in, and for any subsequent year.
Design and production Corporate Edge www.
com Photography VisualMedia Print Royle Print This Report is printed on Revive 50:50 silk, which is made up of 25% post-consumer waste, 25% pre-consumer waste and 50% virgin fibre.
Both mill and printer are certified with environmental management system ISO 14001 and the Forest Stewardship Council.
Royle Print is also a Carbon Neutral Company.
Contacts and Forward-looking statements 101 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 67 Alma Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 3HD Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 make a booking at www.
com welcoming, convenient, stylish, friendly, smart, contemporary, relaxing, practical, luxurious, inviting, comfortable great hotels guests love IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Contents 1 Welcome to IHG 2 Highlights 3 Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive 1 Overview 4 Putting guests in touch with our hotels around the world 5 How we operate 6 The Americas 10 Europe, Middle East and Africa 6 Where we operate 14 Asia Pacific 18 Global summary 19 Corporate reputation Corporate governance Corporate culture Health and safety 19 Corporate reputation Confidentiality Assurance Corporate responsibility 22 How technology serves our guests and owners 24 Building awareness of our brands 22 Supporting our hotels 26 Great people create great hotels 28 Summary financial statement 32 Our senior leadership team 34 Summary Directors report 35 Corporate governance 28 Facts and figures 36 Summary remuneration report 40 Investor information 41 Financial calendar Hotels for everyone Our seven hotel brands and our Priority Club Rewards programme are among the best known in the world.
In the Know The Place to Meet Relax, its Holiday Inn Stay Smart InterContinental Hotels One of the fastest growing Friendly service and great Convenience, comfort and & Resorts are located in upscale hotel brands in the value are the hallmarks value make Holiday Inn major cities and leisure world, located in more than of Holiday Inn.
One of the Express a popular choice destinations in over 60 50 countries.
Crowne Plaza worlds most recognised with guests and hotel countries.
Each hotel offers offers simple elegance and brands, Holiday Inn was owners.
Contemporary high-class facilities and full-service facilities for relaunched in 2007 to improve guest rooms and bathrooms, services aimed at the business and leisure our ability to meet guest a complimentary breakfast discerning business and travellers alike.
Mainly needs for contemporary, and easily accessible leisure traveller.
The brand sited in principal cities, high-quality and consistent locations make this limited strives to provide guests these hotels offer highfacilities.
The relaunch service Holiday Inn an with memorable experiences quality accommodation includes a new identity and ideal choice for people which also give a sense of for leisure and business logo.
Aimed at both business on the road.
Holiday Inn each hotels location.
These travellers who appreciate travellers and families on Express was also hotels blend luxury with a style, a sociable environment, holiday, the brand continues relaunched in 2007. celebration of local culture excellent meeting facilities to grow around the world.
and heritage reflected and state-of-the-art in everything from dcor business technology.
149 HOTELS 299 HOTELS 1,381 HOTELS 1,808 HOTELS 8 OWNED AND LEASED 1 OWNED AND LEASED 6 OWNED AND LEASED 1 OWNED AND LEASED 104 MANAGED 89 MANAGED 193 MANAGED 23 MANAGED 37 FRANCHISED 209 FRANCHISED 1,182 FRANCHISED 1,784 FRANCHISED 50,762 ROOMS 83,170 ROOMS 256,699 ROOMS 156,531 ROOMS 62 HOTELS IN 118 HOTELS IN 365 HOTELS IN 712 HOTELS IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Curl Up Get Comfortable Consider Us Home Its Easier.
The industrys first branded Staybridge Suites is a Created for guest stays of a Our multi award-winning boutique hotel, Hotel Indigo.
high-end brand offering week or longer, Candlewood rewards programme is Aimed at style-conscious guests a home from home Suites offer studios and onethe worlds largest hotel guests who want peaceful for extended hotel stays.
bedroom suites with wellloyalty scheme.
Priority and affordable luxury Residential in style, they equipped kitchens, spacious Club Rewards is supported combined with all the provide studios and suites, work areas and an array of online in nine languages knowledge, experience and kitchens, living rooms and convenient amenities.
and through our reservations operating systems that an work areas, and high-speed This extended stay brand systems, giving our international hotel company internet access for business continues to grow rapidly customers unrivalled can offer.
Inspired by lifestyle and leisure guests.
The Just in the Americas and recently incentives to choose our retailing, it features seasonal Like Home theatre and new launched a new bedding hotels wherever they stay.
changes, inviting service, buffet kitchen are communal collection winning the Priority Club Rewards also inspiring artwork, casual areas where guests can Chain Leadership Award for helps to harness growing dining, airy guest rooms and meet and relax.
The brand Design and Dcor 2007 from revenues and consumer 24-hour business amenities.
will develop outside the US Lodging Hospitality magazine.
11 HOTELS 122 HOTELS 158 HOTELS 37 MILLION MEMBERS WORLDWIDE 2 MANAGED 2 OWNED AND LEASED 78 MANAGED 9 FRANCHISED 41 MANAGED 80 FRANCHISED PRIORITY CLUB REWARDS WEBSITES 79 FRANCHISED IN NINE LANGUAGES 1,501 ROOMS 13,466 ROOMS 16,825 ROOMS 52 HOTELS IN 157 HOTELS IN 207 HOTELS IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE OVERVIEW WHERE WE OPERATE CORPORATE REPUTATION SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS FACTS AND FIGURES OVERVIEW WHERE WE OPERATE CORPORATE REPUTATION SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS FACTS AND FIGURES Welcome to IHG In 2007 around 137 million room nights were booked into our 4,000 hotels in nearly 100 countries.
We are one of the worlds largest hotel companies and are focused on quality growth through managing and franchising our seven distinctive brands.
We work to place guest satisfaction at the heart of everything we do by creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
This Review aims to give an insight into how we went about this during the year.
The Review describes how our business model works and summarises our performance by region.
It outlines how our approach to managing our reputation, technology, branding and our people differentiates us from our competitors.
We also provide a summary of our financial performance during the year and a range of statutory, governance and other helpful information for shareholders.
Overview 1 Highlights RECORD 28,848 NET ROOMS GROWTH 2007 was a year of excellent progress for IHG in which the Company recorded strong growth in an expanding industry.
OPENED 1 HOTEL A DAY We opened and signed a record number of hotels, and grew revenue per available room RevPAR faster than the market SIGNED OVER 2 NEW HOTELS A DAY in all our major geographies.
Our brands are increasingly being chosen over those of our competitors, by guests and by the hotel owners with whom we partner.
REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM UP 7% CONTINUING OPERATING PROFIT UP 19% Andrew Cosslett GROUP THE AMERICAS Chief Executive 2007 237m 2007 $440m 2006 200m 2006 $395m EMEA ASIA PACIFIC 2007 67m 2007 $63m 2006 37m 2006 $52m SPECIAL DIVIDEND 709m PAID FINAL DIVIDEND UP 12% TO 14.9p On average for 2007.
Total system room revenue divided by the number David Webster of room nights available.
Chairman Operating profit before exceptional items.
2IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 OVERVIEW OVERVIEW Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Strong trading Improving brand performance We also made changes to our Executive Committee.
Kirk Kinsell, previously Our financial performance was strong.
Over the last two years we have Chief Development Officer for the Continuing operating profit before conducted extensive hotel research Americas region, took up the position exceptional items was up 19 per cent, studies across the globe and we are of President of our Europe, Middle from 200 million to 237 million, and now applying the insights from this work East and Africa region.
Peter Gowers, up 30 per cent at constant exchange to refresh and renew our hotel brands.
formerly Chief Marketing Officer, rates.
Adjusted continuing earnings The performance of the InterContinental became President of our Asia Pacific per share rose 23 per cent from 38.0p brand continues to gather pace: we region, and we welcomed back to 46.9p.
Global RevPAR rose by signed 33 new InterContinental hotels Tom Seddon who had previously worked 7 per cent, mainly driven by guests around the world in 2007 and ended the for IHG as Chief Marketing Officer.
willingness to pay more for an year with a record pipeline of 62 hotels.
In October 2007 we announced the Shareholder returns global relaunch of our Holiday Inn brand Accelerating growth family.
The relaunch is designed to raise During the year we returned 790 million the standards of quality, style and to shareholders by way of a 709 million The number of hotels which operate comfort in the hotels, and will deliver special dividend and 81 million of under IHGs brands grew at a record a consistent, best-in-class service to share buybacks.
This takes our total pace.
We opened 366 hotels in 2007, one our guests.
Owners and franchisees will funds returned to shareholders since a day on average.
We continued to focus invest up to 500 million in Holiday Inn March 2004 to 3.5 billion.
on improving the quality of our hotel hotels around the world over the next estate and removed over 150 hotels three years, and IHG will separately Dividend increase during the year.
Taking into account make a 30 million contribution.
these removals, the number of hotel The Board is recommending a This activity should generate a strong rooms in our system increased by over 12 per cent increase to the final dividend return on investment through expected 5 per cent, representing more than a for 2007, taking it to 14.9p per share.
increases in RevPAR following 50 per cent increase in rooms growth This will give a full year dividend of 20.6p, completion of the relaunch.
Our future growth lies in the 12 per cent higher than 2006.
Subject forward order book of contracts that to shareholder approval, the final Board and Executive Committee we have signed for new hotels our dividend will be paid on 6 June 2008. pipeline.
This pipeline also grew at a As previously announced, record pace in 2007, and now stands Richard Hartman retired from the Board Outlook at 1,674 hotels, comprising 225,872 in September 2007.
We thank him for The outstanding contribution from rooms, a 43 per cent increase on 2006. his service and wish him well for the our people has driven excellent We signed 873 hotels in the year, future.
In December 2007 Ying Yeh was results in 2007.
We have the biggest comprising 125,533 rooms, a 22 per appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
development pipeline in the industry cent increase on 2006.
This is by far Her in-depth knowledge of the Asia and this will deliver another high level the highest level of signings in the hotel Pacific region will be of great value of hotel openings in 2008.
We have now added a total to IHG.
Two of our Non-Executive the current economic environment of 47,419 rooms to our system against Directors, Sir David Prosser and is less predictable than in 2007, our our three-year target of adding 50,000 Robert C Larson, are planning to retire broadly-based portfolio of brands and to 60,000 net rooms by the end of 2008. from the Board at the end of May and our resilient fee-based business model We remain confident we will exceed the December 2008, respectively.
Both position us well for future growth.
have given outstanding service to IHG.
David Webster Andrew Cosslett Chairman Chief Executive Highlights and Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive 3 Putting guests in touch with our hotels around the world IHG owns a handful of hotels from a portfolio of almost 4,000 that carry our brands.
The majority are owned by third parties, who rely on IHG to deliver guests to their hotels every day.
As IHG does not own most of the hotels The IAHI continued to strengthen its that carry our brands, we have built collaborative partnership with IHG a strong working relationship with during 2007, formulating an even our owners association, the IAHI, over stronger platform for the upcoming the last 51 years.
IHG relies on our process and unique within the hotel industry and diligence in challenging critical helps us to deliver the high standards business decisions to continually our guests expect.
The IAHI was improve the value of its brands and formerly known as the International generate financial prosperity for its Association of Holiday Inn Owners hotel owners.
and now goes by the name the Together, the IAHI and IHG have IAHI The Owners Association.
prepared for the rapidly changing The Chairman of the IAHI changes guest expectations and future annually and this year Rick Takach demands.
The momentum has begun took over from Mike C Hoffman who with the global relaunch of Holiday Inn, did an outstanding job during his with an expanded focus on hotel Rick Takach Chairman Chairmanship.
quality, refreshed brand hallmarks IAHI The Owners Association and a new look for the brand.
Nowhere When hotel owners choose one of has our impact and contribution to the our brands they become part of the IHG system been more valuable than IHG system, which includes: with this brand relaunch.
We were a worldwide sales team of more involved every step of the way, than 8,000: providing feedback, asking questions websites in 12 languages: and reviewing plans.
The IAHIs input 12 reservations offices globally: was encouraged and welcomed by IHG senior management.
This resulted the industrys leading international in a powerful demonstration of how reservations system: our Associations process works best.
our loyalty programme, Priority In addition, the IAHI was instrumental Club Rewards, with 37 million in improving the Express Start members: Breakfast Bar appealing to guests and almost 4,000 hotels providing providing our hotels with a competitive around 137 million room nights advantage.
In response to the new per year in nearly 100 countries: bedding standards for Candlewood and Suites, guests are giving rave reviews.
funds of $817 million to invest I am confident that the IHG system behind our brands.
will raise the level of guest satisfaction and brand preference through these important initiatives.
Together, we are creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
Rick Takach 2007 08 IAHI Chairman For further information go to www.
org 4IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 OVERVIEW OVERVIEW How we operate Our growth is now firmly rooted in franchise agreements and management contracts.
This enables us to expand rapidly by channelling other peoples capital into projects while we benefit from more predictable, high-quality earnings.
How our business model typically works OWNING MANAGING FRANCHISING BRAND IHG IHG IHG MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION IHG IHG IHG STAFF IHG IHG supply general third party manager as a minimum OWNERSHIP IHG third party third party IHG CAPITAL high low none none IHG REVENUE all revenue fee % of total revenue fee % of rooms plus % of profit revenue Owning Managing Today we own just a handful of hotels IHG runs the managed hotels from a portfolio of almost 4,000 operating estate day to day, but ownership of under one of our brands.
The hotels the buildings remains with a third-party that remain under ownership have a net owner.
A management contract gives book value of approximately 0.9 billion, us direct control over quality and with the lions share of this in the big service standards.
By the year end, InterContinental hotels in London, we had 539 hotels operating under Hong Kong, New York and Paris.
management contracts, representing 14 per cent of our total estate.
Since 2003 we have sold 181 owned and leased hotel properties and have Franchising retained the flag on 90 per cent of these, providing a solid ongoing income Franchisees want to be in business stream.
By the year end, we owned for themselves but not by themselves.
18 hotels, less than one per cent of Franchising enables them to trade our total estate.
under one of our brands and take advantage of the tools that enhance their business: our reservations system, websites, Priority Club Rewards, property improvement plans, quality training and marketing support.
At the year end, we had 3,392 hotels operating under franchise agreements, which represented 86 per cent of our total estate.
Putting guests in touch with our hotels around the world and How we operate 5 The Americas The new-look Holiday Inn A global relaunch of the Stevan Porter worlds favourite hotel brand was announced in Dallas President, The Americas in October.
The first relaunched properties will open in the Americas in spring 2008 with the entire estate due to complete by 2010.
The US is the biggest lodging market in the world and it continues to offer tremendous growth.
We believe theres potential for extensive additional rooms in this territory over the next five years.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2007 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF ROOMS BY ROOMS IN ROOMS BY BRAND PIPELINE BUSINESS Revenue per available room RevPAR BY BRAND MODEL up6.1%, 16,624 3,722 4,029 1% due to rises in room rates InterContinental InterContinental owned and leased 47,893 9,036 39,696 10% INTERCONTINENTAL, CROWNE PLAZA, Crowne Plaza Crowne Plaza managed HOLIDAY INN and HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS outperform their market segments with 177,999 33,029 365,134 89% RevPAR increases of 10.1%, 7.5%, 4.9% Holiday Inn Holiday Inn franchised and 6.7% respectively 134,551 54,279 Holiday Inn Holiday Inn DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Express Express outnumbers competitors 13,466 15,921 Staybridge Staybridge Suites Suites 16,825 18,605 Candlewood Candlewood Suites Suites 1,501 6,565 Hotel Indigo Hotel Indigo TOTAL TOTAL 408,859 141,157 6IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WHERE WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE Style and affordable luxury Hotel Indigo is the industrys first branded boutique hotel, blending the experience of a brand hotel with the service personality of a boutique at an affordable price.
Interpret Indigo, launched in 2006, allows owners to add their own stamp to hotel hallmarks.
Holidays are coming Developers get Hotel Indigo Seeing the light The planned relaunch of Holiday Inn Our newest brand, Hotel Indigo, reached We launched an employee comes as the signings pace for the its first major milestone when it opened engagement initiative called brand family reaches record levels.
We now expect Hotel Chase the Extraordinary in 2007 The Americas Holiday Inn brand Indigo to open over 50 new properties across our owned and managed family development pipeline currently by 2010.
During the year, new Hotel estate.
This led to the replacement stands at 879 hotels.
In 2007 we opened Indigo hotels opened in Tennessee, of incandescent light bulbs new hotels in Miami Beach and Chicago New York state, Arizona and Ottawa, throughout our hotels with and signed management contracts for Canada.
Mexicos first Hotel Indigo, key hotels near Disney World, Florida a renovated hacienda project, opened more energy-efficient compact and Las Vegas, Nevada.
This single and Holiday Inn Express today enjoy hallmarks include bold colours, unique project led to over $2 million in 30 per cent and 17 per cent shares of artwork, oversized armchairs, airy guest annual energy savings and a their respective US mid-market sectors.
Interpret reduction in carbon emissions.
Both brands are buoyant in Canada Indigo, launched in 2006, allows owners The US Lodging Association 58 hotels in the pipeline and Latin to localise hotel hallmarks.
Outstanding recognised it as best practice America nine hotels in the pipeline.
examples of this are the hotels in during the year.
Construction of a 128-room Holiday Inn Arizona and Ottawa.
First conceived Express is under way in Santa Fe, Mexico.
as a design-led and cost-effective way to For further information on convert older hotel properties and other corporate responsibility go to Change is Inn buildings, Indigo is now also attracting www.
com responsibility developers to a new-build concept.
Exciting changes to Holiday Inn, the worlds favourite hotel brand, were Improving with age presented to 4,500 delegates at our investor conference in Dallas.
Owners With over 60 years of heritage, the welcomed the move to invest up to InterContinental brand was launched $1 billion globally for new brand to provide a base for international imagery, updated lobbies, signature business people and diplomats in bedding, bathrooms and extensive staff far-flung locations.
We expect hotels to benefit has continued to expand in major cities from a significant rise in revenue per and in resort locations, performing available room RevPAR following the well during the year.
This major upgrading of new new 363-room InterContinental and existing hotels is scheduled to be in Los Angeles under a long-term complete by early 2010 in the Americas, management contract with Tokyo-based with a first new look hotel opening in Sumitomo Realty.
Boston, opened in late 2006, had a strong first year.
Our development pipeline is buoyant.
Eight new hotels are planned for US travel hot spots, including San Francisco, Monterey Bay, California and Paradise Valley, Arizona.
The Americas 7 The Americas continued Our strategy is to be a clear market leader, particularly in the mid-price sector with Holiday Inn.
IHG is moving into new territories and building strong hotel development pipelines in the extended stay, boutique and upscale sectors.
We are going from strength to strength.
Stevan Porter Crowne Plaza Broadway New York The Sleep Advantage programme continues to be a great success across the Crowne Plaza estate throughout the Americas.
Crowne Plaza Broadway New York Currently undergoing InterContinental Los Angeles Century City Expansion of the InterContinental a multi-million dollar refurbishment programme.
brand continues across the west coast.
The InterContinental Los Angeles Century City opened in January 2007.
A second InterContinental in San Francisco is due to open in the city centre in early 2008, together with a third 208-room resort hotel at nearby Monterey Bay.
8IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WHERE WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE Hotel Indigo New York City Construction began on the first property for New York City in the Chelsea district.
The 20-storey high-rise building will house 122 guest rooms.
Number one growth brand Staying power Rainforest Alliance Coffee Crowne Plaza was named 2007s Staybridge Suites continued to expand top US premium growth brand by faster than any competitor in the Having approved a change of Lodging Hospitality magazine.
With upscale extended stay market, in one coffee supplier for Holiday Inn 172 properties in the Americas and of the fastest growing sectors in the in 2006, we moved to better 37 in the pipeline, the brand offers US.
We opened our 100th hotel in quality produce obtained elegant dcor, comprehensive meetings Tallahassee, Florida in February and exclusively from growers who facilities and the Sleep Advantage a total of 25 properties during the year.
work under the Rainforest programme in the US.
Our first newWith 147 hotels in the development build prototype property opens in pipeline, we expect to double in number Alliance umbrella.
Newly signed over the next three years.
We continue that coffee in our hotels is now Crowne Plaza hotels include properties to add hotels in key areas, including a sourced from farms that pay in New Jersey, Arkansas, San Diego, first Staybridge Suites for Manhattan fair wages and operate in a Miami, and first developments for in 2009. sustainable way.
We also laid foundations for the Crowne Plaza New markets, more firsts For further information on Matzatlan, Mexico.
corporate responsibility go to Our strategy is to increase our presence in Mexico, the Caribbean, Central and www.
com responsibility Franchised estate takes lead South America and Canada.
During the Our Americas development pipeline year, we opened the first Candlewood of franchised hotels outnumbered all Suites and Hotel Indigo hotels in rival franchisors at the close of the Canada, where we have also opened year.
We now occupy first place in the five new Holiday Inn Express hotels franchised hotel industry for the first in as many months.
In Latin America time, with a total of 1,309 hotels in our our flags fly in 17 countries and the development pipeline.
During 2007, development pipeline stands at nine we signed 21 per cent more franchised hotels 1,251 rooms.
In the past two rooms 118 hotels compared to 2006. years, owners throughout Latin America and the Caribbean have invested a total of $95 million to upgrade existing hotels.
We remain the largest franchisor in Mexico with a portfolio of 103 hotels and a development pipeline of 60.
The Americas 9 Europe, Middle East and Africa Kirk Kinsell Ahead of the pack in Scotland Crowne Plaza President, EMEA Glasgow was voted the citys best hotel and the Conference Hotel of the Year in the Scottish Hotels of the Year Awards 2007.
We are marking a major milestone with the opening of our first Staybridge Suites in the region.
We are also making great progress in growing our brands in the Middle East and we are identifying new development opportunities in emerging markets.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2007 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF ROOMS BY ROOMS IN ROOMS BY BRAND PIPELINE BUSINESS Regional revenue per available room BY BRAND MODEL RevPAR 20,012 5,960 1,674 1% up8.6%, InterContinental InterContinental owned and leased driven by 6.3% rate increase 17,326 6,298 39,073 36% Crowne Plaza Crowne Plaza managed MIDDLE EAST strong, with 19.6% increased RevPAR 52,842 9,546 68,813 63% Holiday Inn Holiday Inn franchised 19,380 9,766 7.6% RevPAR rise in Continental Europe Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Express Express 1,229 In the UK, HOLIDAY INN and EXPRESS BY HOLIDAY INN outperformed their markets Staybridge with RevPAR growth of 6.3% Suites 90 Other TOTAL TOTAL 109,560 32,889 10 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WHERE WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE UK conversions to Holiday Inn We added 11 Holiday Inn hotels to our system overnight in May following a deal with Kew Green Hotels in the UK.
Formerly operated as Courtyard by Marriott, they became Holiday Inn hotels under the terms of a 20-year licence agreement.
Holiday Inn Northampton UK Holiday Inn Chessington UK Crowne Plaza growth Tapping economic growth Model Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza continued to grow We want to increase the presence of We introduced design throughout the year with new signings our brands in key Eastern European guidelines for building new including: franchise agreements for destinations and grow the number of Holiday Inn hotels in Europe.
a new build Crowne Plaza in Albufeira hotels we have in the Middle East and Hotels built to the guidelines in the Algarve: a first IHG hotel for Africa over the next three to four years.
require less construction Denmark the Crowne Plaza Oiland mineral-rich countries on the materials and less energy Copenhagen Towers: and the first crossroads of Europe and Asia are to run.
This innovative Crowne Plaza in St Petersburg, Russia.
poised for economic growth, providing An important focus is to gain high new opportunities for hotel owners.
approach reduces costs returns through our management and During the year, record signings for our for our owners and is more franchised models.
We sold the share Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn branded environmentally friendly.
we owned in Crowne Plaza London hotels throughout EMEA boosted our For further information on The City in 2007, but retained a 17-year total pipeline to 187 hotels.
29 of those corporate responsibility go to management contract on the property.
hotels are located in the Middle East and nine in Eastern Europe.
com responsibility Born in the USA the largest international hotel operator in Moscow.
During the year we opened The first Staybridge Suites in the UK the 575-room Crowne Plaza World is due to open in Liverpool in 2008.
Trade Centre, Moscow bringing the Staybridge Suites already has a number of hotels under our brands development pipeline of 10 properties in Russia to six 2,042 rooms.
We in the EMEA region, including key UK also opened the InterContinental cities such as Birmingham, Newcastle, and Crowne Plaza hotels in Dubais Cardiff and London.
We also have Festival City.
a deal signed for Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates.
Europe, Middle East and Africa 11 Europe, Middle East and Africa continued Our Holiday Inn development pipeline is at a record level.
We see huge potential for this brand and look forward to opening our first relaunched hotel in 2008.
Kirk Kinsell Crowne Plaza Dubai Festival City InterContinental Dubai Festival City 12 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WHERE WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE Restored to its former glory The newly refurbished InterContinental London Park Lane was recognised by readers of Cond Nast Traveller as one of the UKs top 10 business hotels in 2007.
It was also voted first choice for restaurants and food.
Flagship hotels perform Record demand for luxury Bloomsbury sets standards The recently renovated InterContinental We signed a record 15 new deals for hotels in London and Paris are earning InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Holiday Inn London their place as flagship properties in in 2007.
Management or franchise Bloomsbury won the Best Europe.
The InterContinental London contracts were agreed for new hotels Disabled Facilities Award, Park Lane is reclaiming market share in Tbilisi, Georgia: Belgrade, Serbia Accessibility for All, at the since it reopened in 2006.
Theo Randall and Tripoli, Libya.
The brands first Meetings and Incentive at The InterContinental was named resort in Africa will open on the island Travel Industry Awards 2007. runner up in the top new restaurant of Mauritius in late 2008.
Agreements category in Londons renowned to debut the brand in Portugal and The award was made for the restaurant guide Zagat 2008.
The Sweden were also announced, and new outstanding accessibility InterContinental Paris Le Grand openings in 2008 will include hotels in and service the hotel team also performed well.
The hotel is Milan, Italy: Dresden, Germany: and offers its guests.
now seeing the benefits of the multiKiev, the Ukraine.
This momentum has For further information on million euro renovation programme seen key openings across the region that completed in Spring 2003 with in the past 18 months, including Taba corporate responsibility go to RevPAR increasing 14% during 2007, Heights in Egypt, a major renovation www.
com responsibility together with an improvement in in Abu Dhabi, together with the profit margins.
reopening of the InterContinental London Park Lane.
Dubais city within a city Ready for relaunch Two hotels a Crowne Plaza and an InterContinental opened simultaneously The relaunch of the Holiday Inn brand at Dubai Festival City in 2007.
A third family will see Express by Holiday Inn InterContinental Residence Suites is renamed Holiday Inn Express regiondue to open in 2008, marking a landmark wide, bringing the brand into line across hat-trick first for the company.
The move comes in a year the InterContinental and Crowne Plaza of record signings for the Holiday Inn Dubai Festival City are connected to brand family across the region with a the Festival Waterfront Centre, with total of 68 signed.
The years signings 550 retail outlets and 90 restaurants included five new Holiday Inn Express and cafs.
hotels in Spain and new Holiday Inn hotels in the cities of Chelyabinsk and Novosibirsk, Russia.
Europe, Middle East and Africa 13 Asia Pacific Best brand for seventh time Readers of Business Travel Asia Peter Gowers magazine voted Holiday Inn the best mid-market hotel brand President, Asia Pacific in Asia Pacific for the seventh consecutive year.
Holiday Inn Batam Indonesia Asia Pacific is our fastest growing region and the rapid spread of our hotels is built on great relationships with our owners.
The investment we have made over the years in great people, backed by strong brands and efficient systems is really paying dividends.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2007 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF ROOMS BY ROOMS IN ROOMS BY BRAND PIPELINE BUSINESS Growth across all brands BY BRAND MODEL 14,126 10,331 693 1% Revenue per available room RevPAR InterContinental InterContinental owned and leased up8.9%, 17,951 21,028 56,114 84% Crowne Plaza Crowne Plaza managed mainly driven by rate increases 25,858 14,370 9,868 15% Holiday Inn Holiday Inn franchised INTERCONTINENTAL RevPAR up 11.1%, CROWNE PLAZA 6.5%, 2,600 6,097 HOLIDAY INN 8.7% and Holiday Inn Holiday Inn HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS 11.0% Express Express 6,140 GREATER CHINA RevPAR Other increased 7.0%, driven by rate rises TOTAL TOTAL Above market RevPAR growth as strong demand continues 66,675 51,826 14 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WHERE WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE Holiday Inn Express forges ahead Three Holiday Inn Express hotels opened in 2007, in key cities including Hefei and Shanghai taking us to 11 Holiday Inn Express hotels in China, Hong Kong and Japan in total.
Holiday Inn Express is developing well in the region, with a development pipeline of 22 hotels 6,097 rooms.
Crowne Plaza Sanya China Holiday Inn Express Shangdi Beijing Top of the league InterContinental well placed in Asia Green award for Chongqing IHG was named the leading international InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is hotel company in China by Travel Trade poised to appear for the first time in The newly opened Gazette magazine and Euromonitor key destinations including Melbourne, InterContinental Chongqing during 2007.
This reflects the strength Australia and Ho Chi Minh City and is designed as part of a of Holiday Inn, the growth of Crowne Hanoi in Vietnam.
InterContinental is commercial centre, above Plaza and the recent opening of four also well prepared for the 2008 Olympics office space and luxury InterContinental Hotels in Chongqing, in China as the only premium brand to shopping.
Its one of only Shenzhen, Jiuzhaigou and Chengdu have two new hotels with direct access in China.
The InterContinental 20 hotels in China awarded Beijing Beichen is a short walk Certified Green Hotel Golden Multiple brands, strong relationships from the Olympic stadium and the Status for its commitment InterContinental Qingdao is set Our stable of well-known brands and to energy efficiency and within the home of Olympic sailing.
strong relationships with owners and environmental protection.
InterContinental Resorts are planned developers across the region continues for Hua Hin, Thailand, Huizhou and For further information on to contribute to our growth, particularly Sanya in China, Danang in Vietnam corporate responsibility go to with multi-brand deals.
We signed a and Okinawa in Japan.
These will deal to operate a Crowne Plaza and www.
com responsibility join our existing resorts in Bali and three Holiday Inn Express hotels in French Polynesia.
Changzhou city near Shanghai on behalf of Hong Kong developer Top Measuring up Spring Group in 2007.
We also signed a strategic deal for the branding and The booming Chinese economy, management rights to the Groups ongoing recovery in Japan and future hotels in China.
continuing growth in India are helping to create more demand for our hotels.
The positive economic picture in the region is reflected in Priority Club Rewards membership, which has more than doubled to around three million members in the region over the past three years.
We are prepared for growth, having doubled the number of employees in our offices throughout the region in the past two years.
Asia Pacific 15 Asia Pacific continued This region is growing faster than any other and we must be able to recruit the numbers and calibre of people we need as we grow, especially in China.
With our Winning Ways and Room to be yourself deal for employees we are well prepared.
Peter Gowers ANA InterContinental Tokyo Japan Unique mountain views InterContinental Resort Jiuzhai Paradise, China overlooks the picturesque mountains of Aba in Sichuan Province which rise 2,600 metres above sea level.
The hotel dcor includes limestone, wood and water features to complement its location.
16 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WHERE WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE One-stop meetings shop We are appointing a Meetings Director for each new and existing Crowne Plaza hotel, offering a single point of contact for customers.
Crowne Plaza Metropolitan Tokyo Japan IHG ANA begins rebranding China rising Academy partnerships IHG ANA Hotels Group Japan, our joint China continues to offer great potential In 2006 we established the venture with All Nippon Airways, began and also represents a huge challenge IHG Academy with Shanghai to convert its former ANA hotels to one we need to recruit at least 100,000 University to develop employees of three new brands created specifically employees for the hotels we will open in China.
The Academy offers for Japan: ANA InterContinental, ANA over the next five years.
Our growth in a programme of accredited Crowne Plaza and ANA Holiday Inn.
We China is being helped by the Chinese education, lectures, placements expect this programme to be complete governments plan to build 97 new and internships.
The first ANA airports and invest over $190 billion to InterContinental opened in Tokyo during develop the railway network.
As China we expanded the programme the year, closely followed by six ANA grows into the biggest inbound tourist to four cities across China.
Crowne Plaza hotels in the key cities of destination over the next decade, By helping improve skills Chitose, Toyama, Kanazawa, Hiroshima, outbound travellers will also rise in the industry, we bring to Naha and Narita.
from around 20 million now to more life a commitment to our than 100 million annually in the next local communities.
Crowne Plaza meets demand 10 years.
On average, we are opening around one hotel a week in Greater For further information on Crowne Plaza is the fastest growing China.
Our development pipeline international upscale hotel brand in corporate responsibility go to includes 27 Holiday Inn, 22 Holiday Inn Greater China, and accounts for around www.
com responsibility Express and 16 InterContinental hotels, 40 per cent of our development pipeline including the InterContinental Nanjing, in the region.
By the end of 2007, which will be among the worlds tallest we had 20 Crowne Plaza hotels open hotels when it opens in 2010.
At the end for business in Greater China, and of 2007, we had 81 hotels 28,894 rooms a development pipeline of 42 others.
We expect to A luxury brand with quality restaurants have 125 hotels open in Greater China and excellent meeting facilities, it is by the end of 2008. becoming a popular venue for Chinese weddings.
We are also entering new Investor earmarks Japan markets such as Hanoi in Vietnam, Adelaide in Australia and Gurgaon in Leading bank Morgan Stanley bought India with the brand.
Crowne Plaza 13 of the hotels in our joint venture with re-enters Singapore at Changi Airport ANA hotels in Japan for $2.36 billion.
Japans largest ever property transaction and the largest hotel transaction in Asia Pacific, the deal signalled a leading investors confidence in the joint venture and underlines the potential in the Japanese hotel sector.
Asia Pacific 17 Global summary Our presence is really growing.
During the year, we opened, on average, one hotel a day somewhere in the world and signed over two a day to our development pipeline.
We believe that in 2008 we will continue to grow, offering many more great hotels for our guests to choose from.
Market coverage Almost 4,000 hotels in nearly 100 countries, top three positions in six of the largest markets, with 12 central reservation offices globally.
NUMBER OF ROOMS THE AMERICAS HOTELS ROOMS HOTEL PIPELINE BY BUSINESS MODEL InterContinental Hotels & Resorts 50 16,624 8 4,029 1% Crowne Plaza 172 47,893 37 OWNED AND LEASED Holiday Inn 952 177,999 265 Holiday Inn Express 1,615 134,551 614 39,696 10% MANAGED Staybridge Suites 122 13,466 147 Candlewood Suites 158 16,825 207 365,134 89% Hotel Indigo 11 1,501 52 FRANCHISED TOTAL 3,080 408,859 1,330 NUMBER OF ROOMS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA EMEA HOTELS ROOMS HOTEL PIPELINE BY BUSINESS MODEL InterContinental Hotels & Resorts 62 20,012 24 1,674 1% Crowne Plaza 72 17,326 25 OWNED AND LEASED Holiday Inn 335 52,842 51 Holiday Inn Express 182 19,380 76 39,073 36% MANAGED Staybridge Suites 10 Other 1 68,813 63% FRANCHISED TOTAL 651 109,560 187 NUMBER OF ROOMS ASIA PACIFIC HOTELS ROOMS HOTEL PIPELINE BY BUSINESS MODEL InterContinental Hotels & Resorts 37 14,126 30 693 1% Crowne Plaza 55 17,951 56 OWNED AND LEASED Holiday Inn 94 25,858 49 Holiday Inn Express 11 2,600 22 56,114 84% MANAGED Other 21 6,140 TOTAL 218 66,675 157 9,868 15% FRANCHISED HOTELS ROOMS HOTEL PIPELINE GLOBAL TOTAL 3,949 585,094 1,674 18 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CORPORATE REPUTATION CORPORATE REPUTATION Corporate reputation IHGs core purpose is to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
However, we are only going to succeed if our corporate brand has a reputation and standing which supports this aspiration.
IHG is an internationally recognised The procedures for maintaining and leading hotel business focused first-rate governance are shaped by on high-quality growth.
processes and disciplines which the Board and Executive Committee ensure To this end, we are creating Great are in place.
These are supervised by Hotels Guests Love, building on the the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination strength and profile of our leading and Disclosure Committees, and by the brands and offering our guests excellent work of our Global Risk Management service levels across the world.
The and Internal Audit teams.
But no good reputation of our diverse portfolio matter how good and professional of hotel brands, however, will only these processes are, they cannot by continue to flourish if our overall themselves build a reputation.
Good reputation and culture supports these practice must be embedded in the corporate aspirations.
The IHG name business, reflecting how IHG and its is therefore of the utmost importance.
employees deal day to day with all Our reputation serves to make our hotel our contacts.
Richard Winter brands more attractive in the eyes of With this in mind, IHG has Executive Vice President, our guests, it reinforces our position Corporate Services comprehensively reviewed and updated as an employer of choice and ensures policies on the environment, support that we remain a preferred company for for communities, human rights and our investors and other business partners.
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Our reputation is built upon This Code states clearly that our Corporate governance the trust and confidence of reputation is built upon the trust and our stakeholders, and is an Sound governance provides a solid confidence of our stakeholders, and integral part of our vision foundation on which to build a strong is an integral part of our vision to to make IHG one of the best ethical and cultural framework that make IHG one of the best companies companies in the world.
helps to bind the Company together in the world.
Our Code of Conduct through a common vision that enhances is fundamental to our operations our corporate reputation.
The primary worldwide and it has been translated responsibility for corporate governance into many languages to ensure it rests with the Board and occupies is understood across the business.
We report on the Boards governance Corporate culture responsibilities fully in our Annual Our culture the collective way that Report and Financial Statements employees think, work and behave 2007 and under Corporate Governance, the unique character of IHG, has the on page 35 of this Review.
strongest influence on our corporate reputation.
As a business employing thousands of people, with many diverse skills, IHGs culture is the collective responsibility of all employees.
Global summary and Corporate reputation 19 Winning Ways engage colleagues around the world Employees at the InterContinental Abu Dhabi have brought our values to life through celebrating 35 different National Days and creating a parliamentary-style staff forum made up of representatives from every department.
It is also at the core of many of our involving all employees in a formal Assurance central departments whose job it is to process of continuous improvement Our Internal Audit department provides guard and maintain a stable platform on in health and safety matters, further assurance of the quality of the which our business can be confidently reporting and review: and Companys processes and disciplines.
For example, it is exercising vigilance to protect guests This work is supervised by the Audit a fundamental principle of our business from the risk of terrorism wherever Committee.
An important aspect of its conduct that our guests, investors, it may occur in the world.
work involves identifying and responding employees, and all who do business to new and emerging risks.
As far as Compliance with Group policy is with us, have the right to expect the service to shareholders is concerned, monitored and audited centrally, and highest standards of security and safety the Company Secretariat provides health and safety reports are included on our premises.
This is both a practical information and communications to within the bi-annual risk management and a cultural objective and is just one shareholders and is responsible for reports produced for the Board.
example of how our values, what we call our compliance with UK and US stock our Winning Ways Do the right thing, exchange listing requirements.
Our Confidentiality Show we care, Aim higher, Celebrate Disclosure Committee is responsible As well as the vital need to protect difference, Work better together for reviewing financial and trading the confidentiality of our guests support the success of our business statements and the verification personal data, we recognise that our worldwide.
positive reputation also depends on maintaining the confidentiality of all Health and safety Corporate responsibility information we hold, and releasing We apply high standards of health and We have developed a strong corporate it only when necessary, in a timely safety for the benefit of all employees responsibility programme to underpin and accurate manner.
Our Code and guests as a matter of priority.
The all of our policies, and this year we are of Ethics and Business Conduct Group strives not only to comply with publishing our first online Corporate defines standards relating to records, relevant health and safety legislation, Responsibility CR Report.
This can disclosure, communications and but also to provide and maintain a safe be accessed on our website at inside information.
Guidelines, environment for employees, customers www.
com responsibility available to employees on the internal and other visitors to our premises.
website, set out the Groups policy IHG was a founding member of the In addition, all Group companies are for the identification, control and International Tourism Partnership that responsible for: dissemination of inside information.
celebrates its 15th anniversary in 2008. protecting the health of employees Senior employees are regularly We take our corporate responsibilities with suitable work-based strategies: reminded of their obligation to seriously and remain committed to maintain confidentiality and to meeting our global obligations as one of minimising the risk of injury from fulfil their duties relating to inside the worlds leading tourism businesses.
work activity: information and public statements.
ensuring that sufficient resources Our two priorities for action are and information are made available environmental management and and that good management systems support for the communities in are in place to address health and which we operate.
safety matters: 20 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CORPORATE REPUTATION CORPORATE REPUTATION Partnerships are key Through talking to business partners we can work together to develop comprehensive long-term strategies to manage our impact on the environment and support our local communities.
We believe that travel and tourism Our people and our hotels are can be enjoyed responsibly and that encouraged to act as role models the benefits of taking this approach within the communities in which they far outweigh the costs.
Supporting local communities is the second fundamental plank of Tourism provides opportunities for our corporate responsibility strategy.
local economic development, new Details of IHGs charitable, community, business and much needed jobs, environmental and socially responsible especially in developing countries.
policies and activities are provided on It also opens the door to improved our website and in the CR Report.
learning, better communication, greater During the year, the Group donated diversity and richer, more fulfilling 626,000 in support of community social experiences.
As hoteliers there initiatives and charitable causes.
In Innovation Hotel are many positive actions that we can addition to these cash contributions, As part of our corporate take to minimise travel and tourisms employees have also given their time responsibility agenda, we negative effects, and we detail some and skills to a variety of causes and launched the Innovation of the work we are doing internationally IHG has made donations in kind, such Hotel online in October 2007. in our CR Report as well as throughout as hotel accommodation.
Taking these this Annual Review.
contributions into account, total This gives our consumers the donations from IHG in 2007 are opportunity to tell us how they Climate change is a clear and significant estimated at 770,000.
All hotels think hotels could be more challenge and how we respond will under our brands provided a total shape the lives of future generations.
environmentally friendly of more than $14 million in their Sustainable tourism means tackling without losing the quality communities during 2007. the environmental impact of hotel and luxury they expect.
development and operations from the In conclusion Take a look inside out evaluating everything in www.
com innovation the life cycle of a hotel from site and Through this combination of Board design to management and operations, and Executive Committee leadership, For further information on including energy and water savings policies, specialist functions and the corporate responsibility go to and waste management.
Our new integrity of all our employees, we have www.
com responsibility design guidelines are based around created a culture and reputation at IHG the principle of reducing our carbon that make us one of Britains most footprint and ecological impact as far admired companies Management as possible.
That reputation is one we intend to guard and develop internationally, enhancing our profile throughout the world for the benefit of our business and all our stakeholders.
Corporate reputation 21 David Shamoian Co-Chairman, IAHI The Owners Association Technology Committee David Hart Co-Chairman, Tom Conophy IAHI The Owners Association Chief Information Officer Technology Committee As technology plays an increasing part in the Our goal is to offer the best guest lives of our guests and is constantly evolving, experience.
We have to make sure it is imperative that our hotels are able to use guests can book easily, get information technology wisely and efficiently from the front quickly, have a great arrival experience desk to the guest room.
The IAHI Technology and be connected to their choice of Committee works closely with IHG to develop entertainment, work, family and strategies to introduce innovative products and friends while staying with us.
services in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
From High Definition TV standards to advising on bandwidth requirements, helping with the development of new technologies including the self-service check-in kiosks, the Committee advocates on behalf of its membership and works closely with IHG to research and launch emerging technologies.
Through our endorsement of the High Definition TV standard, we were able to educate our members to ensure that they invested in the correct technology.
The Committee and IHGs Global Technology team is also exploring the best way to enhance the in-room entertainment experience with a guest connection device.
These initiatives will enhance the overall guest experience and provide a competitive advantage for our hotels.
David Hart David Shamoian Co-Chairmen, IAHI The Owners Association Technology Committee Self-service check-in Holiday Inn hotels For further information go to www.
org can now provide self-service kiosks for guests to check-in and out at their own pace.
Owners and guests benefit from fewer queues, especially when group bookings mean that large numbers of people arrive at the same time.
The service lets guests view their room selection, upgrade, check an invoice and request that their final bill is sent to a named recipient.
22 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS How technology serves our guests and owners Our guests experience typically starts and finishes with technology from when they start looking for somewhere to stay, often online, to when they eventually check out.
Our aim is to make sure they have relevant and easy to use tools available at every stage.
Strong systems growth In-room entertainment We call the various methods we have A new in-room entertainment device, of driving demand into our hotels our Suite Point HD, will be introduced system.
This system is a large part across IHG over the next few years.
of what owners are buying when they Suite Point HD is a single hub through decide to partner with IHG.
Room which guests can plug in personal bookings via our reservations system electronics iPods, MP3 players, topped $6.8 billion in 2007, with phones, laptops, games consoles and $2.2 billion transacted online through cameras.
It is linked to a flat screen LCD our websites.
Our Priority Club Rewards Liquid Crystal Display TV so travellers programme reached 37 million members can use the screen to work, watch in the year and our operating system videos or listen to music.
By monitoring now supports an average of one new the consumer electronics markets, hotel opening every day.
consulting with our hotel operators on the ground and, most importantly, Competitive advantage talking to our guests, we have identified LCD TVs replace plasma which gadgets guests most want to During the year we also introduced screens access while staying with us.
improved revenue management During the year, we introduced capabilities for our extended stay E-Concierge LCD TVs across our hotel hotels, as part of a commitment to offer technology that drives business The E-Concierge is an online service brands.
This helps conserve returns for our owners.
for guests at any of our InterContinental energy, as the alternative Hotels & Resorts around the world.
plasma TVs consume more Information at a touch Linked to the InterContinental website, power and produce more heat, it allows visitors to watch a video about We are introducing self-service facilities which encourages guests to their chosen hotel and get information for guests who are increasingly savvy turn up the air conditioning.
on what to see and do in the area, about new technology.
We continued We are also working with TV including museums, galleries, shops, to roll-out three important new software manufacturers to configure restaurants and other places of interest.
platforms in the year: E-Concierge for the sets so they shut down The beauty of this service is that guests InterContinental Hotels & Resorts: when put into stand-by mode.
can draw on the local knowledge and E-Host for Holiday Inn: and self-service recommendations of hotel staff to check-in facilities, initially at Holiday Inn For further information on build a personal itinerary for their trip, hotels.
Part of IHGs next generation of corporate responsibility go to including the hidden gems and travel technologies, these help us to become www.
com responsibility shortcuts known only to local people.
a hotel partner of choice by meeting Once this is emailed to the concierge, guest expectations and driving business arrangements and bookings can be for owners.
made ahead of their arrival.
How technology serves our guests and owners 23 Building awareness of our brands Our success is strengthened by the insight we have gained from extensive consumer research.
We now have a clear view of where to develop our hotels, what we do well and how we can improve.
Experience in the US has paved the Crowne Plaza tees off way for our brands to move into new The Crowne Plaza brand has benefited territories.
One of our extended stay from a new link with golf in the US brands, Staybridge Suites, will open through sponsorship of the Crowne in our EMEA region in 2008.
We will Plaza Colonial PGA tournament.
also be looking at opportunities to Announced in 2006, the deal quickly launch Hotel Indigo in other parts made an impact on the reputation of the world.
of Crowne Plaza as The Place to Meet.
Since the year end we were delighted to announce that golfer Phil Mickelson will be a brand ambassador.
The link between Crowne Plaza and golf is already established in China via the Crowne Plaza Open and in the UK through sponsorship of the Mercedes Challenge Cup.
Tom Seddon Chief Marketing Officer Holiday Inn takes charge of change We are relaunching the Holiday Inn brand family worldwide to create a more contemporary image and to enhance quality and consistency in all 3,189 hotels.
The changes will include Holiday Inn makes for a winning upgraded lobbies with signature scents team Holiday Inn supported the Vauxhall VX Racing Team and music, new bedding and bathroom through the 2007 British Touring amenities, striking new brand imagery Car Championships BTCC.
The Holiday The Holiday-Inn backed Vauxhall Inn family is the core IHG mid-market driven by Fabrizio Giovanardi brand, with over 413,230 rooms open came from nine points behind and a further 127,087 in the development to win the British Touring Car pipeline.
We are on course now to build title crown in October 2007. its future as the dominant mainstream hotel brand family.
All hotels managed and franchised will be required to implement the programme by the end of 2010, rejuvenating hotels and building greater brand awareness worldwide.
Owners will collectively invest $1 billion and IHG has earmarked 30 million to fund a proportion of the relaunch.
24 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS The relaunch of an icon The Holiday Inn sign is our biggest marketing asset seen by hundreds of millions of people along the roadside every day.
The new sign reflects the first change to the Holiday Inn logo in over 50 years and is the formal stamp of approval once a property has adopted the relaunch hallmarks.
Real hotels for real people In the Know Guests tell us that staying in a modern, After being refreshed in 2006, the clean, safe hotel with efficient, friendly InterContinental brand targets guests service that provides a great nights who aspire to lead an InterContinental sleep is what is most important to them.
Our In the Know We are focusing our efforts on fine-tuning campaign celebrates the culture and those key areas within Holiday Inn.
heritage of each hotel location and the We want the Holiday Inn brand family local knowledge of our staff to help to live up to our pledge to provide guests get the most from their stay.
hotels for people who value a warm The new identity has helped to boost welcome and straightforward and growth to a year-end development helpful service.
The relaunch includes pipeline of 62 hotels worldwide.
Our the Holiday Inn Service Promise with estate of almost 150 hotels increasingly a global programme of staff training.
appeals to the more discerning travellers The new Holiday Inn logo the first who want to discover destinations and major change for 50 years will be the cultures.
We now have over 200 hotels Supporting charities final stamp of approval on each property either open or in the pipeline for the around the world once all internal changes and staff first time in the brands history.
training has been completed and Priority Club Rewards certified.
We believe owners will not Designs on Indigo members around the world only benefit from a significant return Hotel Indigo is attracting owners can donate their points to a on their investment, but also see a big who understand the benefits of a number of charities through benefit from the overall marketing of design-led hotel that is supported Room for Hope, Priority the brand.
A major consumer marketing by the infrastructure of a large Club Rewards charitable campaign is planned once the majority international hotel company.
stream of interest in the US has lifted Points are converted into the total Americas development pipeline cash contributions.
Room You either take charge of change, to 52 by the end of 2007, including for Hope supports UNICEF, or change will take charge of you.
plans for new projects in Manhattan.
the American Red Cross Kemmons Wilson founder, Holiday Inn The brand, with its tagline Curl Up, and the Cure Kids Cancer is aimed at style-conscious guests Coalition among a number who seek a haven of affordable luxury.
Interpret Indigo, which allows owners of other charities.
Members to add their own design touch to the can select a particular brand hallmarks, has worked well charity or opt to have since its introduction in 2006.
Strong points apportioned across design and seasonal change is a all Room for Hope charities.
For further information on corporate responsibility go to www.
com responsibility Building awareness of our brands 25 What do we want you to do?
What are we going to do for you?
The Deal Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, We want to attract and retain the best people, Global Human Resources engage our employees, recognise their effort, and give everyone at IHG room to individually make a difference.
During the year we introduced what we call The big push in the year was about The Deal.
This sets out what we expect as an helping people to understand our employer and what our employees can expect Winning Ways, bringing those values from us.
IHG gives our employees what we call to life and creating an environment Room to be yourself, encouraging them to where people love their jobs.
bring the same passion to work as they do to their hobbies.
Employees in turn pledge to live by a set of values, our Winning Ways, which set out how we all want to behave and be treated at work.
WINNING WAYS WHAT WE EXPECT Do the right thing Show we care Aim higher Celebrate difference Work better together EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT WHAT WE OFFER Room to have a great start welcome and training Room to grow personal career development Room to be yourself be involved and have your say Room for you work life balance, pay and benefits China calling We expect to recruit 100,000 WHAT OUR PEOPLE WANT employees in China to support our planned expansion over the next five years.
In 2007, To be treated as an individual we staged events to explain our Winning Ways To be recognised for what I do to Chinese employees, teamed up with four Chinese universities to offer hospitality To use my initiative training through our Academy scheme and To develop my career and travel continued to run internships, lectures A great working environment and careers fairs.
A good work life balance A really supportive team Friendly and trustworthy colleagues Anita, IHG, China 26 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 R o o m t o b e y o u r s e l f SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS SUPPORTING OUR HOTELS Great people create great hotels We have rolled out initiatives to attract and retain the best people, engage our employees, recognise their effort, and give everyone at IHG room to make a difference.
The energy and enthusiasm has been tremendous.
War for talent Strengthening leadership To achieve our ambition, we need to In 2007 we launched the third stage recruit and retain the very best people.
of our senior leadership programme One of our biggest challenges is to focusing on the role leaders play in find around 150,000 more people to driving performance and results through support our planned growth over the people.
We also conducted a review of next three years.
To meet this demand key leadership roles to enable proactive and to deliver our core purpose, to management of succession planning.
create Great Hotels Guests Love, we have an ongoing talent management The Deal programme.
We focus on developing To fully engage our employees, we skills and leadership, providing have made a commitment to create competitive rewards, measuring an environment where people can progress and giving employees the give their best and make a difference opportunity to shine.
Were proud that Room to be yourself.
In turn, our one in two employees choose to Winning Ways define what is expected Bringing Winning Ways progress their careers within IHG.
This is what we call to life every day The Deal.
Room to be yourself aims Employee engagement Every hotel in our Europe, to recognise everyone as an individual Middle East and Africa region During the year, we launched a new and to encourage employees to bring employee survey tool to canvass and the same enthusiasm to work as they joined the Jigsaw Challenge.
measure views on an ongoing basis.
We now use our To win a Jigsaw piece the The response rate was a record people as models in recruitment hotel has to demonstrate 83 per cent, with over 77,500 people campaigns.
The photography captures Winning Ways behaviours responding in 32 languages across employees enjoying their hobbies and commercial benefits 63 countries.
Nine out of 10 people golfers, snowboarders, musicians and to the business.
Around 600 said they were proud to work for many more.
Our feedback confirms Jigsaw pieces have currently IHG and 84 per cent said they would that our people love promoting IHG.
been awarded and we hope recommend the Company as a great Winning Ways describe our personality to increase that number place to work 10 percentage points as a company and the way we throughout 2008. higher than external benchmark behave.
Drawn up in consultation data provided by market research with employees, they are designed to For further information specialists, TNS.
During 2007, employee guide our everyday actions.
In 2007 we on working for IHG go to engagement rose by five percentage launched Winning Ways to employees www.
The survey showed that worldwide.
Several awards confirmed the introduction of Winning Ways and our growing reputation during the Room to be yourself, strongly correlated year.
Management Today named IHG to employee engagement, which in turn Britains most admired company in links directly to business performance.
the leisure and hotels sector.
IHG was named top employer in the Shanghai region by the Corporate Research Foundation, and the Holiday Inn People Notice training programme won a Gold level business impact award in the US.
Great people create great hotels 27 Summary financial st atement The financial results for 2007 were strong all around the world.
Our continuing operating profit increased by 19% to 237m, driven by 7% RevPAR growth, 5% record net rooms growth and strong results from our remaining owned and leased hotels.
Adjusted earnings per share from our continuing business increased by 23% to 46.9p and the final dividend was increased by 12% to 14.9p.
Richard Solomons This Summary Financial Statement consistent with the US market, the region provides a commentary on the was impacted by a marginal softening performance of the Group for the in RevPAR growth due to a slight decline financial year ended 31 December 2007. in occupancy levels.
Group and regional trading Continuing owned and leased revenue Revenue from continuing operations increased by 23.1% to 128m and operating increased by 12.3% to 883m and profit increased by 66.7% to 20m.
Positive continuing operating profit increased by underlying trading was driven by RevPAR 18.5% to 237m during the 12 months growth of 9.7%, led by the InterContinental ended 31 December 2007. brand with growth of 10.6%.
The results benefited from strong trading performances The growth was driven by strong underlying at the InterContinental Boston and the RevPAR gains across all regions, hotel InterContinental New York.
expansion in key markets and profit uplift from owned and leased assets.
Including Managed operating profit decreased by discontinued operations, total revenue Richard Solomons 22.2% to 21m principally due to increased decreased by 3.9% to 923m whilst Finance Director revenue investment to support growth operating profit before exceptional items in contract signings, the impact of fewer increased by 6.1% to 245m, reflecting hotels under management contracts the year-on-year impact of asset disposals.
following the restructuring of the FelCor This Summary Financial agreement in 2006 and foreign exchange During 2007, the IHG global system Statement was approved by losses in Latin America.
increased by 208 hotels 28,848 rooms, the Board on 18 February 2008 or 5.2% to 3,949 hotels 585,094 rooms.
The franchise results benefited from and signed on its behalf by The record growth level was driven, in RevPAR growth of 5.8%, net room count Richard Solomons.
It does not particular, by continued expansion in the growth of 4.0% and fees associated with contain sufficient information US, the UK, China and Japan, resulting to provide as complete an growth in signings.
in openings of 366 hotels 52,846 rooms.
understanding of the Groups In EMEA, revenue and operating profit results and state of affairs as At the end of 2007, the IHG pipeline from continuing operations increased that provided in the Annual totalled 1,674 hotels 225,872 rooms.
by 23.7% to 245m and 81.1% to 67m Report and Financial Record room signings across all regions Statements 2007.
During the year, the region of 125,533 rooms led to pipeline growth may be obtained, free of charge, achieved RevPAR growth of 8.6% driven of 67,881 rooms or 43.0%, which by completing the relevant by substantial gains across all brands section of the enclosed Form demonstrates strong demand for IHG and ownership types.
of Proxy and returning it to the brands across all regions and represents In the owned and leased estate, continuing Companys Registrar, Equiniti.
a key driver of future profitability.
revenue increased by 31.5% to 121m as The auditors have issued In the Americas, revenue and operating a result of trading at the InterContinental an unqualified report on the profit from continuing operations financial statements containing London Park Lane which became fully increased by 6.6% to 450m and 2.3% no statement under Section operational during the first half of 2007, 237 2 or 237 3 of the to 220m respectively during 2007.
The together with strong rate-led RevPAR Companies Act 1985. region achieved healthy RevPAR growth growth at the InterContinental Paris across all ownership types and RevPAR Information concerning Le Grand.
Continuing operating profit Directors emoluments is premiums to the US market segments for increased by 21m to 17m, including shown on pages 36 to 39. hotels operating under InterContinental, operating profit growth of 14m at the Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn InterContinental London Park Lane.
During the fourth quarter, 28 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES Independent auditors statement to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC EMEA managed revenues increased Net financial expenses increased from We have examined the Groups Summary Financial Statement for the by 18.3% to 84m and operating profit 11m in 2006 to 45m in 2007, as a result year ended 31 December 2007 which increased by 16.2% to 43m, driven by of higher debt levels following payment of comprises the Group income statement, management contracts negotiated in 2006 the 709m special dividend in June 2007.
Group cash flow statement and Group as part of the hotel disposal programme Financing costs included 10m 2006 10m balance sheet.
This report is made in Europe and strong underlying trading in solely to the Companys members, of interest costs associated with Priority markets such as the Middle East, the UK, as a body, in accordance with Section Club Rewards, and 9m 2006 4m in Spain and Russia.
To the respect of the InterContinental Boston fullest extent required by the law, we Franchised revenue and operating profit finance lease.
do not accept or assume responsibility increased by 14.3% to 40m and 20.8% The effective rate of tax on profit before to anyone other than the Company and to 29m respectively.
The growth was the Companys members as a body, tax, excluding the impact of exceptional principally driven by RevPAR gains and for our audit work, for this report, items, was 22% 2006 24%.
room count expansion in the UK and or for the opinions we have formed.
Earnings per share, dividends, treasury Respective responsibilities Basic earnings per share in 2007 were of Directors and auditors Asia Pacific revenue increased by 17.1% to 72.2p, compared with 104.1p in 2006.
The Directors are responsible for 130m whilst operating profit increased by Adjusted earnings per share were 48.4p, preparing the Annual Review and 6.9% to 31m.
The region achieved strong against 42.9p in 2006.
Adjusted continuing Summary Financial Statement, in RevPAR growth of 8.9% across all brands accordance with applicable law.
Our earnings per share were 46.9p, 23.4% up and ownership types and continued its responsibility is to report to you our on last year.
strategic expansion in China and Japan.
opinion on the consistency of the The Board has proposed a final dividend Summary Financial Statement within The owned and leased results benefited per share of 14.9p: with the interim the Annual Review and Summary from the impact of strong trading at the dividend per share of 5.7p, the normal Financial Statement with the full InterContinental Hong Kong, despite the financial statements, Directors Report dividend per share for 2007 will total 20.6p.
impact of renovation works throughout and Directors Remuneration Report, a significant part of the year.
The net movement in cash and cash and its compliance with the relevant equivalents in the 12 months to requirements of Section 251 of the Managed revenue increased by 36.1% to 31 December 2007 was an outflow of Companies Act 1985 and the regulations 49m as a result of the full year contribution made thereunder.
This included net cash inflows from the hotels which joined the system in other information contained in the from operating activities of 232m, net 2006 as part of the IHG ANA joint venture, Annual Review and Summary Financial cash outflows from investing activities continued organic expansion in China and Statement and consider the implications of 19m and net cash outflows from solid RevPAR growth across Southern Asia for our report if we become aware financing activities of 344m.
Operating profit increased of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the by 9.5% to 23m as revenue gains were Net debt at 31 December 2007 was 825m Summary Financial Statement.
offset by integration and ongoing costs and included the InterContinental Boston Basis of audit opinion associated with the ANA joint venture finance lease commitment of 100m.
We conducted our examination in and continued infrastructure investment Asset disposal and return of funds accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The in China.
During 2007, IHG achieved further Auditors Statement on the Summary Franchised revenues doubled from 4m progress with its asset disposal Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report to 8m, driven by hotels in the IHG ANA programme, including the sale of the on the Companys full annual financial joint venture.
Growth in profitability was Crowne Plaza Santiago and the Holiday statements describes the basis of also impacted by ANA integration and Inn Disney, Paris both retained under IHG our audit opinion on those financial ongoing costs.
franchise contracts and the sale of the statements and the Directors InterContinental Montreal retained under During 2007, net central costs were flat Remuneration Report.
In total on 2006 but increased in line with inflation Opinion these transactions generated 49m in when translated at constant currency In our opinion the Summary Financial proceeds before transaction costs.
Statement is consistent with the full also divested a number of equity interests financial statements, Directors Report Exceptional operating items, interest during the year, for total proceeds of 57m.
and Directors Remuneration Report and taxation In 2007, IHG paid a 709m special dividend, of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Exceptional operating items of 30m completed a third 250m share buyback for the year ended 31 December 2007 included an 18m gain on sale of financial and commenced a 150m share buyback.
and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the assets and an 11m gain on the sale of At the year end, 100m of this buyback Companies Act 1985, and regulations associate investments.
Since March 2004, IHG made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London, 18 February 2008.
Summary financial statement 29 Summary financial statement continued GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 2007 2006 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total For the year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Revenue Americas 450 450 422 422 EMEA 245 245 198 198 Asia Pacific 130 130 111 111 Central 58 58 55 55 Continuing operations 883 883 786 786 Discontinued operations 40 40 174 174 923 923 960 960 Operating profit Americas 220 9 229 215 25 240 EMEA 67 10 77 37 2 39 Asia Pacific 31 8 39 29 29 Central 81 3 78 81 81 Operating profit continuing operations 237 30 267 200 27 227 Net financial expense 45 45 11 11 Profit before tax continuing operations 192 30 222 189 27 216 Tax 42 30 12 41 94 53 Profit after tax continuing operations 150 60 210 148 121 269 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 51621 19 117 136 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 155 76 231 167 238 405 Earnings per ordinary share pence Basic continuing operations 65.6p 69.1p Adjusted continuing operations 46.9p 38.0p Basic total operations 72.2p 104.1p Adjusted total operations 48.4p 42.9p Dividend per share pence Final paid in respect of prior year 13.3p 10.7p Interim paid 5.7p 5.1p Special interim paid 200.0p 118.0p Final proposed for approval at Annual General Meeting 14.9p 13.3p 30 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2007 2006 For the year ended 31 December 2007 m m Cash flow from operations 302 288 Net interest paid 33 9 Tax paid on operating activities 37 43 Net cash from operating activities 232 236 Capital expenditure 93 124 Proceeds from disposal of operations, associates and other financial assets 106 744 Tax paid on disposals 32 6 Dividends paid 773 562 Purchase of own shares 81 260 Increase decrease in borrowings 553 172 Other financing movements 43 8 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the year 131 152 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 179 324 Exchange rate effects 4 7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 52 179 GROUP BALANCE SHEET 2007 2006 31 December 2007 m m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 962 997 Goodwill 110 109 Intangible assets 167 154 Investment in associates 33 32 Retirement benefit assets 32 Other financial assets 93 96 Total non-current assets 1,397 1,388 Inventories 3 3 Trade and other receivables 235 237 Current tax receivable 54 23 Cash and cash equivalents 52 179 Other financial assets 9 13 Total current assets 353 455 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 57 50 Total assets 1,807 1,893 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 8 10 Trade and other payables 390 402 Current tax payable 212 231 Total current liabilities 610 643 Loans and other borrowings 869 303 Retirement benefit obligations 55 71 Trade and other payables 139 109 Deferred tax payable 82 79 Total non-current liabilities 1,145 562 Liabilities classified as held for sale 3 2 Total liabilities 1,758 1,207 Net assets 49 686 IHG shareholders equity 46 678 Minority equity interest 3 8 Total equity 49 686 Summary financial statement 31 Our senior leadership team Non-Executives # David Webster Non-Executive Chairman Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Appointed Appointed a Director in August 2005, she has Appointed a Director in April 2003, he was Non-Executive Chairman in January 2004.
Also over 30 years experience in advertising and was, formerly Group Chief Executive of Legal & Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell until 2007, Associate Dean, External Relations General Group Plc.
Formerly Chairman of Safeway plc.
Also serves as Director of Investec plc.
Chairman of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
a Non-Executive Director of Hudson Highland Remuneration Committee.
Group Inc. Age 60. the Board on 31 May 2008.
David Kappler Senior Independent Robert C Larson Non-Executive Director Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director Appointed # Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is a a Director in December 2007, she is Chairman and Senior Independent Director in June 2004.
Managing Director of Lazard Alternative and President, North Asia, President, Business Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc Investments LLC and Chairman of Lazard Real Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice and a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
Served as a Non-Executive President, Eastman Kodak Company.
Also Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Director of Six Continents PLC formerly Bass a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo.
Chairman of the Audit PLC from 1996.
Will retire from the Board on Committee.
Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is Appointed a Director in December 2005, he President, Unilever Home and Personal was formerly Vice Chairman of the American Care, and joined the Boards of Unilever plc express company.
Also serves as a and Unilever NV in May 2005.
Will become Non-Executive Director of Yum!
Brands, Inc. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and on a number of US Councils and advisory following the retirement of Sir David Prosser boards.
Back r Back r ow: ow: Robert C Larson Richard Winter David Kappler FrF ont r ront r ow: ow: Stevan Porter Tom Seddon Sir David Prosser Tracy Robbins Peter Gowers 32 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES A Non-Executive Director and a member A member of the Executive Committee # An independent Non-Executive Director of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Audit, Remuneration An independent Non-Executive Director and Nomination Committees An independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Remuneration and and a member of the Audit and Nomination Nomination Committees Not a main Board Director Committees Executives Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Appointed Kirk Kinsell President, EMEA Joined the Tom Seddon Executive Vice President and Chief Executive in February 2005.
Promoted to the role of President, Chief Marketing Officer Having served in Group from Cadbury Schweppes plc where he EMEA in 2007.
Responsible for the business senior positions with IHGs predecessor was most recently President, Europe, Middle development and performance of all the hotel companies until 2004, he rejoined the Group East & Africa.
Non-Executive Chairman of brands and properties in the EMEA region.
Responsible for Duchy Originals Limited.
Age 53. worldwide brand management, sales, marketing and loyalty programmes.
Tom Conophy Executive Vice President and Stevan Porter President, The Americas Chief Information Officer Joined the Group Appointed an Executive Director in April 2003.
Richard Solomons Finance Director in February 2006 from Starwood Hotels & Responsible for the business development Finance Director since April 2003.
Responsible for global and performance of all the hotel brands and for corporate and regional finance, Group technology including IT systems and information properties in the Americas region and for financial control, strategy, investor relations, management throughout the Group.
Age 47. development of best practice in franchising, tax and treasury.
Peter Gowers President, Asia Pacific Richard Winter Executive Vice President, Joined the Group in 1999.
Appointed President, Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, General Counsel and Asia Pacific in 2007, with responsibility for Global Human Resources Joined the Group Company Secretary Appointed Company the business development and performance in December 2005 from Compass Group PLC.
Secretary of the Group in 2000.
Responsible for of all the hotel brands and properties in the Responsible for global talent management corporate governance, corporate responsibility, Asia Pacific region.
Age 35. and leadership development, reward strategy risk management, insurance, internal audit, and implementation.
Age 44. data privacy, company secretariat and Group legal matters.
Ying Yeh Jonathan Linen Kirk Kinsell Tom Conophy David Webster Andrew Cosslett Richard Solomons Jennifer Laing Ralph Kugler Our senior leadership team 33 Summary Directors report Activities of the Group Directors The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, Details of current Board members are shown on pages 32 and 33. with franchising, management, ownership and leasing interests Andrew Cosslett, David Kappler, Ralph Kugler and Robert C Larson in almost 4,000 establishments, with over 585,000 guest rooms are standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
30 May 2008 and Ying Yeh is also then standing for her first election by shareholders.
The Executive Directors have service contracts.
A review of the performance of the Group is contained in the The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive and the business Group maintains insurance cover for its Directors and officers, reviews presented on pages 2 to 17 and in the Summary Financial as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Employees Significant growth during the year IHG directly employed an average of 10,366 people worldwide During 2007, the Group increased its development pipeline to in the year ended 31 December 2007.
When the managed and 1,674 hotels 225,872 rooms, up by 35% and 43% respectively franchised estate is included, approximately 315,000 people work compared with 2006. for IHGs brands across the globe.
The Group is committed to providing staff with equality of opportunity, without discrimination.
Return of shareholders funds Great emphasis is placed on employee communications, and share consolidation particularly on matters relating to the Groups business and During 2007, the Company completed a 250m share repurchase its performance.
programme and commenced a further 150m share repurchase programme which is well under way.
Additionally, 709m was Donations returned to shareholders by way of a special interim dividend During the year, the Group donated 770,000 in support of of 200p per share.
This special dividend was accompanied by community initiatives and charitable causes, including donations a consolidation of the Companys ordinary share capital on the in kind.
No payments were made for political purposes.
basis of 47 new ordinary shares for every 56 existing ordinary shares, effective from 4 June 2007.
The nominal value of the Going concern 29 new shares is 13 47p per share.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 230m.
Auditors In addition to the special dividend referred to above, an interim The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make dividend of 5.7p per share was paid on 5 October 2007.
The themselves aware of relevant audit information.
None of the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.9p per share Directors is aware of any relevant audit information which has to be paid on 6 June 2008 to shareholders on the Register at not been disclosed to the auditors.
close of business on 28 March 2008.
The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Share repurchases Company will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year, 7,724,844 ordinary shares were purchased and cancelled at a cost of 80,772,397 excluding transaction Annual General Meeting costs under IHGs planned share repurchase programmes.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00am The share buyback authority remains in force until the Annual on Friday, 30 May 2008 is contained in a circular, which is sent General Meeting in 2008, and a resolution to renew the authority to shareholders with this Review.
will be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
Share capital At 31 December 2007, the Companys issued share capital 29 consisted of 294,623,308 ordinary shares of 13 47p each.
There are no special control rights or restrictions on transfer attaching to these ordinary shares.
During the year, no awards or grants over shares were made that would be dilutive of the Companys ordinary share capital.
34 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES Corporate governance Combined Code compliance The Board is committed to compliance with the principles A performance evaluation of the Board and of individual Directors set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance was undertaken during 2007.
This concluded that the Board as and considers that the Company has complied with Code a whole operates in an effective manner, and that each Director requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2007. continues to make an effective contribution, and retains a strong commitment to the role.
The work of each main Committee was As required for a Company also listed on the New York Stock also considered to be effective.
Exchange, a statement outlining the differences between IHGs corporate governance practices and those followed Company Secretary by US companies may be found on the Companys website.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
His duties include responsibility for Internal control advising the Board on corporate governance, and for ensuring The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal good information flows to the Board and its Committees and control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear Shareholder relations operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and authority.
In addition, regular meetings are For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Board has conducted held with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
of the business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it can only Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material shareholders to discuss governance and strategy, and to misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion understand any issues and concerns.
of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective The Annual General Meeting provides an additional useful or unsatisfactory.
opportunity to meet private shareholders.
Information of interest to investors is also maintained on the Companys website.
Board and Committees The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
It also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources Summary Audit Committee report are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
There are eight The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial regular Board meetings a year and further meetings as needed.
expert, assists the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the Groups financial statements David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the and associated announcements, the adequacy of internal year.
In addition, a team of seven experienced independent control and risk management systems and the appointment Non-Executive Directors represented a strong source of advice and work of the internal and external auditors.
The role of David Kappler, the Senior Independent auditor and the Head of Internal Audit both have the Director, includes being available to liaise with shareholders opportunity to meet privately with the Committee.
Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and ongoing training needs for all Directors All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the are kept under review.
external auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated member, the overriding consideration being In addition to the Executive Committee, the following main to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not Committees of the Board have been established: Audit Committee, impact the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees consist During the year, the Committees deliberations included wholly of Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Company a wide range of matters addressing all its main areas of is a member of the Nomination Committee only.
Particular consideration was given to a review of reference of these Committees were reviewed during 2007 of the Groups policy on delegation of authority and of the to ensure that they continue to reflect best practice, and are funding position and governance of the Groups main available on the Companys website or from the Company pension plan.
com investors Summary Directors report and Corporate governance 35 Summary remuneration report Introduction Developments in 2007 The Summary Remuneration Report is an extract of information Following a review of executive remuneration structure in 2007, from the full Remuneration Report contained in the Annual the Committee has agreed a simplification of the Short Term Report and Financial Statements 2007, a copy of which is available Incentive Plan and the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan into on request and can be viewed on the Companys website at a single Annual Bonus Plan.
A change has also been made to www.
com investors under financial library.
The Remuneration the Total Shareholder Return TSR measure to be used for the Report will be put to the vote at the forthcoming Annual General Long Term Incentive Plan see below.
The changes are designed Meeting.
to make executive remuneration more transparent and achieve a greater alignment between performance and reward.
The Remuneration Committee Main components of remuneration The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy and determines on behalf of the Board, with the benefit Base salary and benefits of advice from external consultants and internal human resource Salary is based on both individual performance and market professionals, the remuneration of the Executive Directors and information.
Internal relativities and salary levels in the wider other members of the Executive Committee.
employment market are also taken into account.
Benefits in the main relate to company cars and private healthcare cover.
Remuneration policy Annual bonus For Executive Directors and for senior executives, the following Challenging performance goals are set and these must be policy has applied throughout the year and, except where stated, achieved before the target bonus becomes payable.
These goals will apply in future years, subject to regular review.
include both personal objectives and targets linked to the Groups financial and operational performance.
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that overall remuneration is offered, which attracts and retains high-quality For awards to be made in respect of 2008 onwards, the target executives in a highly competitive global environment and which bonus award level is 115% of salary, subject to a maximum bonus rewards achievements that are aligned with business objectives, of 200% of salary.
Half of the bonus is in shares, payable three and which facilitates global assignments.
years after the award date.
No matching shares will be awarded, as was the Companys practice in the past.
The Group has performance-related reward policies, designed to provide the appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and Long Term Incentive Plan variable risk reward.
The normal policy for Executive Directors IHGs Long Term Incentive Plan formerly called the Performance is that using target or expected value calculations, their Restricted Share Plan aims to encourage continuing improvement performance-related incentives will equate to approximately 70% in the Groups performance over the longer term, through the of total annual remuneration excluding pensions and benefits.
award of shares normally made annually subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, measured over three years.
Fixed approx 30% Variable approx 70% Generally, a separate performance cycle commences each year, at the end of which the Companys TSR is measured against a comparator.
Previously, this has been against a group of Short-term Long-term Base salary incentive incentive competitor companies, but for the 2008 10 cycle the comparator will be the Dow Jones World Hotels index.
Graded awards are made for median performance or better.
Additionally, growth in earnings per share EPS is taken into account.
For the 2007 09 Annual Bonus Plan Long Term Cash and Incentive Plan cycle, 10% of the award will be released if adjusted EPS growth Deferred Shares Performance Shares is 10% per annum and 50% will be released if EPS growth is 20% or more.
For the 2008 10 cycle, the EPS threshold and superior performance targets have yet to be determined.
Half of the overall Linked to individual Linked to relative award is based on TSR and half on growth in EPS over the period.
performance, financial TSR 50% and Key and operational adjusted EPS TSR Total shareholder return measures growth 50% Executive share options EPS Earnings per share Since 2006, executive share options have not formed part of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are paid fees Groups remuneration strategy.
For options granted in 2005, a approved by the full Board on the recommendation of the Executive performance condition has to be met before these can be exercised.
Directors, taking account of the fees paid in other companies of similar complexity, and the skills and experience of the individual.
Share ownership Higher fees are paid to the Chairman of the Remuneration Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net Committee and to the Senior Independent Director, who chairs of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities from the Audit Committee.
the Groups remuneration plans while the value of their holding is less than twice their base salary or three times in the case of the Chief Executive.
36 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES Contracts of service External appointments The Remuneration Committees policy is for Executive Directors Executive Directors are allowed to accept one non-executive to have rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months.
appointment, subject to Board approval, as long as this is not All Executive Directors contracts were fully compliant with the likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
David Websters appointment as Pension arrangements Non-Executive Chairman is subject to six months notice.
Executive Directors participate in the relevant Group pension schemes either in the UK or in the US.
Performance graph Throughout the year, IHG was a member of the FTSE 100 index.
The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance against that achieved by the FTSE 100 index for the last five financial years.
IHG shares listed 15 April 2003 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 1 Oct 2002 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Total Shareholder Return Index FTSE 100 Total Shareholder Return Index Source: Datastream Six Continents PLC up to 14 April 2003 Directors emoluments The emoluments shown below represent salary, fees and cash bonuses excluding pensions and bonus awards paid in shares and tax assessable benefits and allowances, including company cars and healthcare cover.
1 Jan 2007 to 1 Jan 2006 to 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 000 000 Executive Directors Andrew Cosslett 1,276 1,268 1 Richard Hartman 846 1,005 1 Richard Hartman retired as a Director on 25 September 2007.
Mr Hartman received housing, child education and other expatriate benefits.
Stevan Porter 677 726 Richard Solomons 771 806 Non-Executive Directors David Webster 392 354 David Kappler 95 80 2 2 All fees due to Ralph Kugler were paid to Unilever.
Ralph Kugler 60 50 Jennifer Laing 60 50 Robert C Larson 60 50 Jonathan Linen 60 50 Sir David Prosser 80 65 3 3 Sir Howard Stringer resigned as a Director on 10 November 2006.
Sir Howard Stringer 43 4 4 Ying Yeh was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2007.
Ying Yeh 5 5 5 Sir Ian Prosser retired as a Director on 31 December 2003.
However, Former Directors 1 1 he had an ongoing healthcare benefit of 1,150 during the year.
Total 4,383 4,548 Summary remuneration report 37 Summary remuneration report continued Long-term reward Executive share options Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan.
No executive share options have been granted since 2005.
Executive share options held at 31 December 2007 by Directors who served during the year are summarised as follows: Weighted Executive Exercised Executive average options held during options held at option 1 2 Directors at 1 Jan 2007 the year 31 Dec 2007 price p Andrew Cosslett 157,300 157,300 619.83 Richard Hartman 337,760 218,950 118,810 619.83 Stevan Porter 321,630 321,630 531.82 Richard Solomons 330,870 330,870 532.36 1 Exercisable up to April 2015.
2 Weighted average option price of options held at 31 December 2007.
No serving Director exercised options during the year.
The gain on exercise by Directors in aggregate was therefore nil in the year ended 31 December 2007 2006 6,662,750.
Richard Hartman was a Director until his retirement in September 2007.
He subsequently exercised options at an option price of 494.17p per share.
The market value share price on exercise was 911.78p per share.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP now called the Annual Bonus Plan Messrs Cosslett, Hartman, Porter and Solomons participated in the STDIP during the year ended 31 December 2007, and are expected to receive an award on 25 February 2008.
Andrew 2 A proportion of these share interests were in InterContinental Hotels 3 Cossletts total bonus was 92% of his base salary.
Richard Hartmans total Group PLC 11 7p ordinary shares which were subject to the share bonus was 84.3% of his base salary.
Stevan Porters total bonus was 83.8% consolidation effective from 4 June 2007.
For every 56 existing of his base salary and Richard Solomons total bonus was 92% of his base InterContinental Hotels Group PLC shares held on 1 June 2007, 29 salary.
In each case, bonus awards were based on earnings per share and shareholders received 47 new ordinary shares of 13 47p each and a Group Regional earnings before interest and tax performance, and one special dividend of 200p per existing ordinary share.
As a consequence, bonus share was awarded for every two bonus shares earned.
shares held at 31 December 2007 have been reduced accordingly.
38 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP previously called the Performance Restricted Share Plan In 2007, there were three cycles in operation and one cycle which vested.
The awards made to Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2007 in respect of the performance cycles ending on 31 December 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 and the maximum pre-tax number of shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below.
For the cycle ending on 31 December 2007, the Company finished fourth in the TSR group and achieved Rooms Growth of 3.1%.
Accordingly, 55.3% of the award will vest on 20 February 2008.
Maximum Maximum LTIP LTIP value shares shares based Maximum awarded vested Maximum on share LTIP during during Market LTIP price of shares the year the year price per Value at shares 884.0p at held at 1 Jan 2007 to 1 Jan 2007 to share at vesting held at 31 Dec 2007 Directors 1 Jan 2007 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2007 vesting 31 Dec 2007 1 2 Andrew Cosslett 613,372 159,506 85,133 1249p 1,063,311 636,446 5,626,184 1 2 3 Richard Hartman 526,110 113,371 103,041 1249p 1,286,982 310,626 2,745,935 1 2 Stevan Porter 449,430 92,667 88,788 1249p 1,108,962 399,807 3,534,295 1 2 Richard Solomons 450,010 102,109 90,473 1249p 1,130,008 407,129 3,599,021 Total 1,754,008 1 This award is based on performance to 31 December 2009 where the 3 Richard Hartmans awards were pro-rated to reflect his contractual service performance measure relates to both the Companys TSR against a group during the applicable performance periods.
of eight other comparator companies and the compound annual growth rate in earnings per share EPS over the performance period.
2 This award was based on performance to 31 December 2006 where the performance measure related to both the Companys TSR against a group of eight other comparator companies and growth in return on capital employed ROCE.
The number of shares released was graded, according to a where the Company finished in the TSR comparator group, with 50% of the award being released for first or second position and 10% of the award being released for fifth place: and b growth in ROCE, with 50% of the award being released for 141.6% growth and 10% of the award being released for 70% growth.
The Company finished in third place in the TSR group and achieved ROCE growth of 98.2%.
Accordingly, 62.4% of the award vested on 21 February 2007.
Pensions UK plans final salary The increases in transfer value over the year less Directors contributions and accrued pensions at the year end were: Increase Accrued Age at decrease in pension at Directors 31 Dec 2007 transfer value 31 Dec 2007 Andrew Cosslett 52 554,500 70,900 1 Richard Hartman 61 122,800 75,400 Richard Solomons 46 879,100 168,700 1 When Richard Hartman retired on 25 September 2007 he took a tax-free cash sum, which reduced his residual annual pension.
US and International plans defined contribution The Company contributions made in respect of Richard Hartman and Stevan Porter during the year were 159,300 and 79,200 respectively.
Summary remuneration report 39 Investor information Registrar Share price information Following a change in its ownership, approved by the Financial The latest share price is available in the financial press, on Ceefax Services Authority in 2007, the Companys Registrar is now called and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, Equiniti.
Shareholders have access to the full range of services telephone 0906 843 0000 code 1772 calls charged at 60p per previously provided.
Enquiries concerning individual shareholdings minute.
Further details of the share price may be found on the and notification of a holders change of address should be referred Companys website www.
com investors under share price.
to Equiniti details shown on the opposite page.
ShareGift Electronic communication The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share The Company has given email notification, to those shareholders donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, who have requested it, of the availability of this Annual Review and the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be Summary Financial Statement, the Annual Report and Financial obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org Statements and the Notice of Annual General Meeting, on the or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
The website contains a link to enable shareholders to Corporate Responsibility Report register for future electronic communication, view details of their IHG has published its first online Corporate Responsibility own shareholding or appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their Report covering progress on a range of environmental, social behalf on any poll that may be held at the forthcoming Annual and community issues.
This is available on the Companys website General Meeting.
and can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may appoint Special dividend and share consolidation 2007 proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service, for the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting, by using On 15 June 2007, the Company paid a special dividend of 200p the procedures described in the CREST manual.
per ordinary share to shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 1 June 2007.
The special dividend was accompanied Share dealing services by a consolidation of the Companys share capital, effective from 4 June 2007, whereby shareholders received 47 new ordinary Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
For more 29 shares of 13 47p each for every 56 existing ordinary shares information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer 3 of 11 7p each held on 1 June 2007. a telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview Dealing, which provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling Changes to the base cost of IHG shares shares.
For telephone dealings call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held log on to www.
co. uk dealing since April 2003 up to September 2007, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website at Individual Savings Accounts ISAs www.
com cgt Equiniti offers ISAs in IHG shares.
Further information may Interim results be obtained from the address shown opposite, or through the helpline, telephone 0871 384 2244.
The Company does not intend to publish future interim results in hard copy.
The interim results will be available online at Dividend services www.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs This provides the opportunity for shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy more IHG shares.
For further information The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange about the DRIP, please contact our Registrar helpline on in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application form is available on the and traded under the symbol IHG.
com investors under shareholder Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
All enquiries regarding services dividends.
ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly directed to JPMorgan, the authorised depositary bank details into a bank or building society account or who wish to amalgamate shown on the opposite page.
their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of shareholder communications should contact the Registrar, Form 20-F Equiniti details shown on the opposite page.
The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be found on the Companys website www.
com investors Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute under shareholder services adr or by visiting the SECs website if using a BT landline.
Other telephone service providers may charge at www.
40 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 FACTS AND FIGURES Summary forward-looking statement Registered office This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains certain forward-looking 67 Alma Road statements as defined under US legislation Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act Windsor of 1934.
By their nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, actual Berkshire results and developments may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by SL4 3HD such statements.
A more detailed explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 forward-looking statements is set out on page 101 of the Annual Report and Financial Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 Statements 2007, copies of which are available from the registered office of the Company For general information about the Groups or on the Companys website at www.
business please contact the Corporate Affairs department and for all other enquiries please contact the Company Secretary both at the above address.
Financial calendar 2007 Registrar Payment of special interim dividend of 200p per share 15 June Equiniti Payment of interim dividend of 5.7p per share 5 October Aspect House Financial year end 31 December Spencer Road Lancing 2008 West Sussex Preliminary announcement of annual results 19 February BN99 6DA Final dividend of 14.9p per share Ex-dividend date 26 March Telephone 0871 384 2132 UK callers Record date 28 March 44 121 415 7034 non-UK callers Announcement of first quarter results 7 May www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting 30 May For those with hearing difficulties Final dividend of 14.9p per share Payment date 6 June a text phone is available on Announcement of interim results 12 August 0871 384 2255 for UK callers Interim dividend Payment date October with compatible equipment.
Announcement of third quarter results 11 November Telephone calls to these numbers are Financial year end 31 December currently charged at 8p per minute if using 2009 a BT landline.
Other telephone service Preliminary announcement of annual results February providers may charge different rates.
ADR depositary For further investor information visit JPMorgan JPMorgan Service Center www.
com investors PO Box 3408 South Hackensack Priority Club Rewards NJ 07606-3408 If you wish to enquire about, or to join Priority Club Rewards, IHGs loyalty programme USA for frequent travellers, please go to www.
com or telephone: Telephone 1 800 990 1135 US callers toll free 44 0 870 607 2582 from Europe, Middle East and Africa : 1 201 680 6630 non-US callers 1 888 211 9874 from US and Canada : Email jpmorganadr@mellon.
com 801 975 3013 from Central and South America : Stockbrokers 63 2 857 8788 from Asia Pacific.
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Merrill Lynch International Auditors Design and production Corporate Edge www.
com Ernst & Young LLP Photography VisualMedia Print Royle Print Investment bankers This Report is printed on Revive 50:50 silk, which is made up of 25% post-consumer waste, 25% pre-consumer waste and 50% virgin fibre.
Both mill and printer are certified with Citi environmental management system ISO 14001 and the Forest Stewardship Council.
Solicitors Linklaters Investor information and Financial calendar 41 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 67 Alma Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 3HD Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 make a booking at www.
