GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC In relation to the Group financial statements We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of InterContinental on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 which procedures or its risk and control procedures.
comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of recognised income and expense, Group cash flow statement, We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group balance sheet, corporate information and accounting consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial policies and the related notes 1 to 35.
The other information comprises only the Highlights, statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive, Business set out therein.
Review, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Audit Committee Report and the Remuneration Report.
We We have reported separately on the parent company financial consider the implications for our report if we become aware of statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of audit opinion Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state We conducted our audit in accordance with International to the Companys members those matters we are required to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Respective responsibilities of Directors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report information and explanations which we considered necessary and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting assurance that the Group financial statements are free from Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Group financial statements.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion: financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, We also report to you whether in our opinion the information of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial and of its profit for the year then ended: statements.
The information given in the Directors Report the Group financial statements have been properly prepared includes that specific information that is cross referred from in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Business review, Directors and Employees sections of the the IAS Regulation: and Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion we have not received with the Group financial statements.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Registered auditor, London.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of 18 February 2008 the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Statement of Directors responsibilities and Independent auditors report 47
