Glossary Adjusted excluding the effect of exceptional items, IFRS International Financial Reporting gain loss on disposal of assets and any Standards.
Interest rate swap an agreement to exchange fixed for Average daily rate room revenue divided by the number of floating interest rate streams or vice room nights sold.
Also known as average versa on a notional principal.
Management contract a contract to operate a hotel on behalf Basic earnings per share profit available for IHG equity holders of the hotel owner.
divided by the weighted average number Market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
by multiplying its share price by the Capital expenditure cash expended on purchases of property, number of shares in issue.
plant and equipment and purchases of Midscale hotel a hotel in the three four star category intangible assets, associates and other eg Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
Net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Cash-generating unit a portfolio of similar assets that are subject to the same economic and Occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, commercial influences.
expressed as a percentage of rooms that are available.
Comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that have traded in all months in both financial Operating profit margin operating profit before exceptional years being compared.
Principally operating items expressed as a excludes new hotels, hotels closed for percentage of revenue.
major refurbishment and hotels sold in Pipeline signed executed agreements, including either of the two years.
franchises and management contracts, Contingent liability a liability that is contingent upon the for hotels which will enter the Groups occurrence of one or more uncertain system at a future date.
Revenue per room revenue divided by the number of Continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued available room room nights that are available can be and including acquisitions made during RevPAR mathematically derived from occupancy the year.
rate multiplied by average daily rate.
Currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, Room count number of rooms owned, managed each denominated in a different currency, or franchised by IHG.
for an agreed period of time.
Room revenue revenue generated from the sale of Derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, room nights.
the price of which is derived from an Royalty rate the percentage of room revenue that a underlying asset, index or rate.
franchisee pays to the brand owner for Discontinued operations operations that have been sold and assets use of the brand name.
classified as held for sale when the results Subsidiary undertaking a company in which the Group holds an relate to a separate line of business, equity stake and over which it exercises geographical area of operations, or where control.
there is a coordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business or System size the number of hotels rooms owned, geographical area of operations.
managed or franchised by IHG.
Exceptional items items which are disclosed separately Total gross revenue total room revenue from franchised hotels because of their size or nature.
and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels.
Extended-stay hotel a hotel designed for guests staying for periods of time longer than a few nights Total Shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a and tending to have a higher proportion of Return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference to suites than normal hotels eg Staybridge the beginning and ending share price, and Suites, Candlewood Suites.
assuming that gross dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested to Franchisee operator who uses a brand under licence purchase additional units of the equity.
from the brand owner eg IHG.
Upscale hotel a four five star full-service hotel Franchisor brand owner eg IHG who licenses brands characterised by superior service for use by operators.
Goodwill the difference between the consideration UK GAAP United Kingdom generally accepted given for a business and the total of the accounting practice.
fair values of the separable assets and liabilities comprising that business.
Weighted average the average of the monthly exchange exchange rate rates, weighted by reference to monthly Hedging the reduction of risk, normally in relation operating profit.
to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making offsetting Working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and commitments.
payables of a trading nature, excluding financing items such as corporate taxation.
Holidex fees charges to hotels under management and franchise agreements for the use of Holidex, IHGs proprietory reservation system.
96 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
