International Power Annual Report 2007 105 The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRIC, but have not been adopted by the European Commission and published in the EU Official Journal for their application to become mandatory: for the year ended 31 December 2007 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised, effective for annual accounting periods 1 Accounting policies beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, to the extent they are directly attributable a General information to the acquisition, production or construction of a qualifying asset as part of International Power plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated the cost of that asset.
Previously there was an option to expense all borrowing and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is costs as incurred.
Because the Group always capitalises borrowing costs disclosed on the last page of this Annual Report.
The consolidated financial incurred on qualifying assets, the revisions to IAS 23 have no impact on either statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 comprise the Groups accounting policies or its results or net assets: the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised, effective for accounting Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent company financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard aims to statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not enhance the usefulness of information presented in the financial statements about its Group.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 2. including the introduction of a new statement of comprehensive income that combines all items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss b Statement of compliance together with other comprehensive income.
The application of the revised European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the standard will not affect the results or net assets of the Group as it is only consolidated financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2007, be concerned with presentation and disclosures: prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
These Group financial statements have IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised, complementary amendments been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Revised, and consequential amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements Interests in Joint Ventures, effective for business combinations in annual in accordance with UK GAAP.
The parent company financial statements are accounting periods of the Group beginning on or after 1 January 2010. presented on pages 165 to 174.
The revised standard will make many changes to how future business combinations will be accounted for, including accounting for acquisition costs, c Adoption of new and revised Standards contingent consideration, step acquisitions, partial disposals of an investment The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards, in a subsidiary and partial disposals of associates and joint ventures.
As the issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International revised standard is to be applied prospectively it is not possible to quantify its Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, are applicable to the Group for likely impact: the first time in the current year and have been adopted by the Group with no impact on the Groups accounting policies or on its results or net assets included IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective for annual accounting within these consolidated financial statements: periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
This interpretation sets out general principles on recognising and measuring the obligations and related IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective for annual accounting rights in service concession arrangements.
As the Groups long-term power periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and a complementary purchase agreements which are affected by the adoption of IFRIC 12 are amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital already determined to be or to contain finance leases, and the consideration Disclosures.
IFRS 7 supersedes IAS 30 Disclosures in the Financial Statements receivable by the operator in each case gives rise to financial assets, the impact of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions and the disclosure requirements of of adopting IFRIC 12 is not expected to have a material impact on the Group: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The application of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 have not affected the results or net IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes is applicable to the Group for the assets of the Group as they only require additional disclosures relating to the years commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
It addresses the accounting of Groups use of financial instruments and the exposures to the risks they create, an entity that grants loyalty award credits to its customers as part of a sales and the management of capital: transaction.
The adoption of this interpretation is not expected to have any significant impact on the Groups results because it does not have any IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial customer loyalty programmes: Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies : IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 : Requirements and their Interaction is effective for annual accounting periods IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives : beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
It addresses when refunds or reductions in future contributions to defined benefit pension schemes can IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
be regarded as a defined benefit asset, particularly when a minimum funding The Group has applied the following EU adopted interpretation in advance of its requirement exists.
Based on actuarial advice, management does not currently effective date.
expect adoption of this interpretation to a have a significant impact on the Groups results.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions is applicable to the Group for years commencing on or after 1 January 2008.
It provides guidance on the application of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to transactions which are settled by the purchase of own shares and transactions in which employees of a subsidiary receive rights to shares of a parent company.
The application of this interpretation had no impact on the Groups results or net assets.
The following Adopted IFRS was available for early application but has not been applied by the Group in these financial statements: IFRS 8 Operating Segments is applicable for years commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires an entity to report segment information on the same basis as that reported to management for decision making purposes.
The application of IFRS 8 in 2007 would not have affected the results or net assets as the standard is concerned only with disclosure.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups disclosures as management identify and measure the results of reportable operating segments on a regional basis as set out in these consolidated financial statements: 106 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies continued currency of the issuer and other factors preclude the conversion feature being treated as equity in the consolidated financial statements, are treated as specific d Basis of preparation IAS 39 mark to market movements and as such are presented in the middle These consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical column.
The Directors consider the fair value gains and losses of these cost convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated in these embedded derivatives should be appropriately disclosed within specific IAS 39 accounting policies.
mark to market movements, in the middle column, so as to separately identify a non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised, will ultimately In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, be extinguished by the issue of equity.
and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the Group presents its income statement in three columns such that it identifies i results excluding Mark to market movements relating to proprietary trading activities, the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, ii the effect revaluation of assets held for trading and amortisation of derivatives which of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and are acquired with a fair value other than zero comprise part of the Groups iii results for the year.
For the purposes of clarity, in the explanation of the underlying business performance and are appropriately, in the judgement basis of preparation applied in these consolidated financial statements, we of the Directors, included within the left hand column.
describe these columns as the left hand column, the middle column and The right hand column presents the results for the year, showing all gains the right hand column respectively.
and losses recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are items which, To the extent that exceptional items are separately identified in the income in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of statement, they are also separately identified in the cash flow statement under their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial the respective heading to which they relate.
The Group discloses exceptional items in the middle column.
The fair values of certain assets and liabilities acquired as part of the Levanto wind The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its farm portfolio in November 2006 have been revised following the completion of physical and financial exposures.
In relation to commodities trading, the Group an independent third party valuation exercise during 2007 refer to note 31.
In considers economic hedges to be those which are asset backed, i. e. where the accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations the 2006 balance sheet has Group is either forward selling electricity from its own generation capacity or been re-presented.
forward buying fuel for its own generation capacity.
In respect of interest rate swaps and other treasury related derivatives the Group considers economic e Basis of consolidation hedges to be those which hedge existing assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Some of these economic hedges achieve own use treatment under IAS 39 and the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries up to are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Some are accounted for as cash flow 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power hedges under IAS 39 with fair value gains and losses recorded in the hedging to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain reserve.
Where derivative contracts do not achieve the own use treatment and benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the potential voting rights that the Group could not, or has not sought to, apply cash flow hedge accounting, are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
IAS 39 requires the derivative contract to be measured at fair value marked On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are to market with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of The Group separately presents these mark to market movements on economic acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised hedges, in the middle column, to assist the readers understanding of underlying as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the business performance and to provide a more meaningful presentation.
identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the For economic hedges, where fair value gains and losses are recorded in the income statement in the period of acquisition.
income statement, in the period in which the economically hedged transaction The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion settles, the settlement amount of the derivative, being the cumulative fair value of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
gains and losses recognised in the current and prior periods, is presented in Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the the left hand column so that the transaction is measured at its contracted minority interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests price i. e. the spot price less the fair value gain or loss on the derivative contract of the parent, except when there is a binding obligation to fund those losses at that date.
and the minority is in a position to do so.
As the cumulative mark to market movements have already been recognised The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the middle column in the current and prior periods, an equal but opposite in the consolidated income statement from when control commences or up amount is presented in the middle column so that cumulatively the amount to when control ceases, as appropriate.
recognised in the middle column in respect of such economic hedges is zero.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of By presenting fair value gains and losses in this manner, the left hand column is subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used not affected by mark to market movements and therefore reflects the underlying by the Group.
business performance at contracted prices.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated The amortisation of derivatives, which are acquired with a fair value other than on consolidation.
zero, is always recorded in the left hand column.
This is achieved by presenting an equal but opposite amount in the middle column, such that specific IAS 39 f Revenue recognition mark to market movements presented in the middle column are shown net of Certain power plants sell their output in merchant markets, where electricity is the amortisation during the period.
sold through existing power exchanges, pool arrangements or through bilateral Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges under IAS 39 can arise from contracts with third parties.
In these markets, revenue from energy sales is either business combinations, where the fair value of the derivatives at acquisition is recorded at the spot price obtained through pool or spot mechanisms when the electrical output is delivered, or as set out below, when electricity is delivered in not equal to zero, or as a result of the difference between the contractual profile accordance with the terms of any related hedging or forward contracts.
of the economic hedge and the profile of transactions defined as the hedged item.
IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges to be i Because power is a non-financial item, forward contracts entered into and recorded in the income statement, and therefore the Group records this which continue to be held for the purpose of delivery and sale of power ineffectiveness in the middle column when it relates to an economic hedge.
generated by our own power plants known as own use contracts can be accounted for under accruals accounting, i. e. revenue for energy sales is Mark to market movements of the fair value of embedded derivatives in convertible bonds, which relate to conversion features where the functional recognised as output is delivered in accordance with the forward contract: International Power Annual Report 2007 107 ii All other forward contracts, which are considered to be derivatives and do not Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity qualify for own use, are recognised at fair value with changes in fair value are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the recorded in the income statement.
Where the Group applies cash flow hedge closing rate.
accounting changes in fair values are deferred in a hedging reserve within Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Groups translation reserve, equity and only reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects which is a component of equity.
Such translation differences are recognised as earnings.
In addition, to the extent that there is ineffectiveness in the cash flow income or as expenses in the income statement in the period of disposal of the hedge accounting of forward contracts, changes in fair values of the forward net investment in foreign operations.
contracts are taken to the income statement in the period.
In respect of foreign operations, any differences that have arisen before Other power plants sell their output under power purchase agreements PPAs.
1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, are presented as part Under such arrangements it is usual for the Group to receive payment for the of retained earnings.
provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests the electrical output capacity payments and for the variable costs of production energy h Goodwill payments.
In such situations, revenue is recognised in respect of capacity Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition payments as: over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and i finance income in accordance with note 1 r where the PPA is considered contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date of to be or to contain a finance lease: acquisition.
ii operating lease minimum lease payments, on a straight-line basis in Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
accordance with note 1 r where the PPA is considered to be or to contain an operating lease: or Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs iii service income in accordance with the contractual terms, to the extent that has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for the capacity has been made available to the contracted offtaker during the impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any period.
Where the PPAs extend over more than one accounting period, subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
service income is recognised in each accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance under the contract in each period.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment annually and Under lease arrangements, those payments which are not included within when there are indications of impairment.
Any impairment is recognised minimum lease payments are accounted for as service income outlined in immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount Energy payments under PPAs are recognised in revenue in all cases as the of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
i Other intangible assets Liquidated damages LDs, in respect of late commissioning, are included Emission allowances An intangible asset is recognised on receipt of allocated in other operating income.
emission allowances and recorded at the fair value on allocation.
The fair value of the grant is also recognised on receipt and deducted from the value of the Proprietary trading income is recognised on the basis of completed contracts and the mark to market value of outstanding contracts at the period end.
As a result no net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal Emission allowances are recognised at cost when purchased.
As emission outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that allowances are utilised they are charged to the income statement within cost of exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
To the extent that these allowances were received by way of grant there is nil charge to the income statement for their utilisation.
At the balance sheet date g Foreign currencies the net carrying amount of emission allowances held is compared with the fair These Group financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional value to assess for impairment.
and presentational currency of the Company.
The functional currencies of Group Forward contracts for sales and purchases of emission allowances are measured entities are principally determined by the primary economic environment in at fair value.
which the respective entity operates.
Transactions entered into by Group entities are translated into the functional currencies of those entities at the exchange rate A provision is made for the estimated shortfall between emission allowances held and the anticipated requirement and is charged to the income statement on ruling at the date of transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from a pro-rata basis according to current and expected future emissions throughout the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in the accounting period based on the market value of those allowances.
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Contracts and rights Contracts and rights is the term we use to describe intangible assets, acquired in business combinations separately from goodwill, Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost are arising from identifiable contractual or other legal rights where their fair values translated at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in line with whether the gain can be measured reliably.
These include in the money commodity contracts, or loss on the non-monetary item itself is recognised in the income statement which qualify as own use contracts in accordance with the requirements of or in equity.
On acquisition, these contracts and rights are classified as intangible assets and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group losses refer accounting policy note 1 o where cost represents fair value at enters into forward contracts and options refer note 1 q, the accounting policy the acquisition date.
The intangible asset is then amortised on a systematic on derivative financial instruments for details of the Groups accounting policies basis in accordance with the pattern in which the future economic benefit of in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
the contract is expected to be consumed by the entity.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised.
An intangible asset with an indefinite The net assets of the Groups overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and useful life is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount with expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period which its carrying amount annually, and whenever there is an indication that the approximate to actual rates.
intangible asset may be impaired.
108 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture j Property, plant and equipment or associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill within the Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost less accumulated carrying amount.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
The property, plant and share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture or equipment of certain of the Groups US operations, which had been revalued to associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited fair value on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRSs, are measured on the to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture or associate of the In the case of assets constructed by the Group, related works, commissioning and Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest borrowing costs as defined under IAS 23 Borrowing costs refer accounting in the relevant joint venture or associate.
Losses may provide evidence of policy note 1 w are included in cost.
Assets in the course of construction are an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at is made for impairment.
n Other investments Depreciation is calculated on a component part basis so as to write-down the cost of property, plant and equipment to its residual value systematically over Other investments consist of available for sale investments in debt and equity its estimated useful life.
Estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation instruments which are measured at market prices where available.
Where quoted methods are reviewed annually, taking into account commercial and technological market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made where the be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost less carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
The depreciation charge is based on the following estimates of useful lives: o Impairment of assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of Years its property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and those other Civil works 25-80 investments measured at cost, to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the Power stations and wind farms 20-60 recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10 of the impairment loss, if any.
Computer equipment and software 3-5 Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT hot gas path parts, In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their on average 2-4 present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for Leasehold improvements Life of lease which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated Freehold land is not depreciated.
to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cashgenerating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is k Government grants recognised as an expense immediately.
Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are recognised at fair value.
The grant is deducted from the cost of the related At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made to determine whether there property, plant and equipment to derive the carrying amount of the asset.
The is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no grant is recognised as income over the life of a depreciable asset by way of a longer exist or has decreased.
Where such an indication exists, an impairment reduced depreciation charge.
loss is reversed to the extent that the assets carrying value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or l Project development costs amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Project development costs are principally incurred in identifying and developing investment opportunities and typically include feasibility studies, pre-bid costs, legal, p Non-current assets held for sale professional and other related advisory costs.
These costs including appropriate Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the direct internal costs are recognised as expenses as incurred, except that directly assets previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation attributable costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the project will is charged on assets classified as held for sale.
proceed to completion and income will be realised.
Such capitalised costs are Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be amortised over the life of the related property, plant and equipment or contract.
recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset m Investments in joint ventures and associates is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be A joint venture is an entity over whose activities the Group has joint control, committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as established by contractual agreement.
a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the q Derivative financial instruments financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the The Groups operating activities expose it to price risks associated with selling power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee its generation output.
The Group is also exposed to price risks associated with but is not control or joint control over these policies.
the purchase of its fuel requirements and to financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses a range of derivative The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are incorporated instruments, including energy based futures and forward contracts, swaps and in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when options to hedge its risk to changes in power prices, fuel costs, foreign exchange classified as held for sale.
The results are presented after interest, tax and minority rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments are only used for hedging interests.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the balance purposes apart from energy based futures contracts, some of which are used for sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the proprietary trading purposes.
net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the joint ventures and associates in excess of the The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups risk management Groups interest in those joint ventures and associates are not recognised unless policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
International Power Annual Report 2007 109 Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the date a derivative Finance leases Group as lessor Where the Group determines a longcontract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the offtaker has the principal each balance sheet date.
The gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant through its contractual is recognised in the income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge arrangements with the Group, the arrangement is considered a finance lease.
accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature As discussed in note 1 f, capacity payments are apportioned between capital of the item being hedged.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of repayments relating to the provision of the plant, finance income and service financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in an active market income.
The finance income element of the capacity payment is recognised as are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities held.
If the revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant to give a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in each period.
The service income element market for a financial instrument is not active, its fair value is established by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques include comparison of the capacity payment is the difference between the total capacity payment and with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash the amount recognised as finance income and capital repayments and recognised flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly as revenue as it is earned.
Arrangements that do not convey the right to use a specific asset through the All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the term of the agreement result in the continued recognition of property, plant and trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the equipment, rather than a finance lease receivable, which is depreciated over its assets.
Regular way transactions require delivery of assets within the time economic life.
frame generally established by regulation or convention in the market place.
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the balance Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments sheet as financial assets, classified as finance lease receivables, at the amount of that are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are the net investment in the lease after making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Operating leases Group as lessor An operating lease is any lease other in the income statement.
Thus where the Group determines a long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement.
However, if ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is considered an operating lease.
the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised as property, plant and amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging instrument are transferred from equipment and depreciated over its economic life.
equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires the term of the arrangement.
or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the Operating leases Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such that the rental Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify income is less than the head lease rental cost, provision is made for the best for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
estimate of unavoidable lease payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of sub-lease income compared with the head-lease expense.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being s Inventories hedged with the corresponding entry in net income.
Gains or losses from Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and consumables are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where remeasuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign currency applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in component of its carrying amount, are recognised in net income.
bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation Hedges of net using the weighted average method.
investments in foreign operations are accounted for on a similar basis to cash flow hedges.
Effective gains or losses on the hedging instrument are recognised t Cash and cash equivalents in the translation reserve, with ineffective gains or losses recognised in finance Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group costs in the income statement.
Cumulative gains or losses in equity are taken and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments the purpose of the cash flow statement.
or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts u Loans and bonds and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are reported in the transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings income statement.
are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the r Leasing borrowings on an effective interest basis.
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee, in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to use a specific asset v Convertible bonds for an agreed period of time.
The definition can include arrangements such as Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of long-term PPAs, where power plants are specifically designated to fulfil the a liability component and either an equity component or an embedded requirements of an agreement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component represents the value of either an equity component or an embedded derivative component attributable to the embedded option to convert the bonds into equity of the Group.
110 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies continued z Environmental liabilities Provision for environmental liabilities is made when expenditure on remedial IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the entity receiving work is probable, the Group is obliged, either legally or constructively through its or delivering a fixed number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a fixed environmental policies, to undertake such work and the amount can be reliably amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity instrument.
Where the amount is expected to be incurred over the long-term, the that a contract that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure and number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a variable amount of cash the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability.
For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, when making the assessment of aa Tax whether a convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to the exchange of a The tax expense represents the sum of the expected tax payable on taxable fixed or variable amount of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency income for the year, including adjustments in respect of prior periods and of the issuing company relative to the currency denomination of the bonds is deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from accounting profit, as reported in the considered in addition to other features within the bond.
income statement, because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference between the currency of the bond and the functional currency of the issuing company, taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded as a derivative liability rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
because it is not a contract to exchange a fixed number of shares for a fixed Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences amount of bonds.
The embedded derivative liability component is separately between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements identified and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency of the bond accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are and the functional currency of the issuing company are the same, i. e. where generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets on conversion of the bonds a fixed number of shares is exchanged for a fixed are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such amount of bonds, the value of the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded within equity on initial recognition.
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial recognition other Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and embedded option than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that components of the convertible bonds recorded as equity or as a derivative affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
liability based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group is able prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the component of the instrument.
This interest expense, recognised in the income temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, no deferred tax statement, is calculated using the effective interest method, i. e. the difference liability is recognised.
between the interest expense on the liability component and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable w Borrowing costs profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or period of time to be prepared for their intended use or sale, are added to the credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
As referred to in note q, to the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the extent that cash flow hedge of interest rate risk, the hedging gain or loss relating to the there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax effective portion of the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve and liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group recognised as part of the initial carrying amount of the asset.
Investment intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs ab Pension schemes eligible for capitalisation.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as an expense as All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they fall due.
Payments made to state managed defined benefit pension plans they are incurred.
are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to those arising in a defined x Provisions contribution pension plan.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation out at each balance sheet date.
at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect The corridor method is applied in recognising actuarial gains and losses.
and losses in an individual scheme are recognised to the extent they exceed the greater of 10% of the gross assets or gross liabilities of the scheme.
The amount y Decommissioning costs recognised in the following year is the excess amortised over the remaining Provision is made for reliably estimated decommissioning costs at the end of average service lives of the employees in the scheme and is recognised in the the useful economic life of the Groups power stations and generating assets, income statement.
if and when a legal or constructive obligation arises, on a discounted basis.
The amount provided represents the present value of the expected costs.
The net defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents An amount equivalent to the initial provision is capitalised within property, the present value of the defined benefit obligations adjusted for unrecognised plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised service costs and as reduced by the assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
fair value of the plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited Where there is a subsequent change in estimate of decommissioning costs, to unrecognised actuarial losses and past service cost plus the present value the present value of the change is recognised in the cost of property, plant of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
International Power Annual Report 2007 111 ac Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and where applicable, adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions including service conditions.
For the Groups Executive Share Option Plans the fair values are measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected lives used in these models have been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, any exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without a market-related performance condition, the fair values have been calculated as the face value of the award, discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
112 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 2 Segment reporting The Group is a global energy business that operates solely in one business segment, that of electricity generation.
The international operations are managed on a geographical basis, reflecting the different characteristics within each geographical market.
The Group reports its primary segment information by geographic segment as this reflects how results are reported for management purposes in the day-to-day management of the business.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenues and segment assets are based in the geographical location of both customers and assets.
There is no inter-segmental revenue.
Refer to notes 37 and 38 for a list of significant entities within each region.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m a Revenue excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 705 172 877 732 183 915 Europe 1,462 399 1,861 1,266 411 1,677 Middle East 72 113 185 51 99 150 Australia 439 84 523 378 107 485 Asia 34 392 426 25 393 418 2,712 1,160 3,872 2,452 1,193 3,645 Revenue including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 677 172 849 761 183 944 Europe 1,300 399 1,699 1,426 411 1,837 Middle East 72 113 185 51 99 150 Australia 242 84 326 321 113 434 Asia 34 392 426 25 393 418 2,325 1,160 3,485 2,584 1,199 3,783 b Profit from operations excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 108 28 136 73 28 101 Europe 521 53 574 381 69 450 Middle East 44 24 68 32 20 52 Australia 83 1 82 121 3 124 Asia 14 82 96 38891 770 186 956 610 208 818 Corporate costs 52 52 45 45 718 186 904 565 208 773 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within profit from operations 386 125 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 518 898 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 91 24 115 83 28 111 Europe 329 54 383 547 68 615 Middle East 44 24 68 32 20 52 Australia 106 15 91 64 10 74 Asia 14 81 95 38891 372 198 570 729 214 943 Corporate costs 52 52 45 45 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 320 198 518 684 214 898 International Power Annual Report 2007 113 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 518 898 Disposal of interests in businesses exceptional 289 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 308 248 Net finance costs exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 16 26 Profit before tax 483 624 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 113 122 Tax expense exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 159 25 Profit for the year 529 477 An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m c Depreciation and amortisation expenses excluding exceptional items North America 60 52 Europe 187 150 Middle East 3 3 Australia 66 63 Asia 3 2 319 270 Corporate costs 1 3 320 273 Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations.
In 2007 the intangible assets relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement acquired with Saltend in 2005 was impaired.
The charge of 47 million is not included within the Europe total in the above table.
In 2006 an impairment reversal of 36 million relating to Deeside power plant was recorded in the income statement.
This impairment reversal is not included within the Europe total in the above table refer to note 8.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m d Additions to property, plant and equipment North America 29 62 Europe 141 83 Middle East 3 47 Australia 57 34 Asia 1 9 231 235 Corporate 1 231 236 114 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 2 Segment reporting continued Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006 Goodwill Contracts Emission Goodwill Contracts Emission and rights allowances and rights allowances m m m m m m e Expenditure on goodwill and other intangible assets North America 2 40 37 64 Europe 393 69 67 1239 Middle East 1 Australia 71 464 70 69 40 49 103 The table above includes both purchased goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to expenditure incurred on other intangible assets.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 SegmentInvestments Total Segment Investments Total assets in joint assets in joint ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m f Segment assets North America 1,445 180 1,625 1,502 184 1,686 Europe 5,625 390 6,015 3,490 363 3,853 Middle East 355 88 443 366 92 458 Australia 2,262 10 2,272 1,879 43 1,922 Asia 68 611 679 194 582 776 9,755 1,279 11,034 7,431 1,264 8,695 Corporate 577 577 601 601 Segment assets excluding current and deferred tax assets 10,332 1,279 11,611 8,032 1,264 9,296 Current and deferred tax assets 142 93 Total assets 11,753 9,389 In 2006 the Asia region segment assets included assets held for sale amounting to 128 million.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 SegmentInvestments Total Segment Investments Total liabilities in joint liabilities in joint ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m g Segment liabilities North America 1,070 1,070 1,134 1,134 Europe 3,349 3,349 2,016 2,016 Middle East 342 342 336 336 Australia 1,783 1,783 1,330 1,330 Asia 55 55 55 55 6,599 6,599 4,871 4,871 Corporate 993 993 934 934 Segment liabilities excluding current and deferred tax liabilities 7,592 7,592 5,805 5,805 Current and deferred tax liabilities 1,154 844 Total liabilities 8,746 6,649 The analysis of total assets and liabilities includes all attributable goodwill and excludes intercompany balances, which have been eliminated on consolidation.
Corporate assets and liabilities include cash held at the corporate level, included in cash and cash equivalents: corporate borrowings, included in loans and bonds: and provisions.
International Power Annual Report 2007 115 3 Profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting : Amortisation of other intangible assets 115 105 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 205 168 Development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised 5 3 Exceptional items before tax note 8 233 55 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements before tax note 8 346 44 Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment 9 6 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 6 3 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 5 Amount removed from translation reserve on disposal of a foreign operation 2 Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of joint ventures and associates but before disposal of interests in businesses, finance income, finance expenses and tax.
Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of operations and maintenance services and profit on sale of development sites.
Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide general administrative overheads and project development expenses.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.0 2.0 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 1.4 Tax services 0.1 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group 0.2 0.2 2.9 4.2 Other services pursuant to such legislation in 2006 relates principally to reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission, interim reviews and additional audit work relating to the Groups compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 which relate to internal controls over financial reporting.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions incorporate due diligence assistance on potential and completed acquisitions during the year and reviews of financial models for funding purposes.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and regulatory advice, and the completion of certain financial due diligence work.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
116 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 4 Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Group finance income Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss on: available-for-sale financial assets 1 loans to joint ventures and associates 14 16 cash and cash equivalents 61 35 Group interest income calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss 76 51 Group finance income on assets at fair value through profit or loss net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading 1 2 Total Group finance income 77 53 The net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading includes interest and dividend income.
Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest income of 23 million 2006: 21 million.
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 25 and 32.
5 Finance expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Group finance expenses excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Interest on: bank loans and overdrafts 283 226 other loans and bonds 91 77 unwinding discount on provisions 1 1 other payables 8 6 Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method 383 310 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 5 9 Group finance expense on liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 378 301 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments 16 26 Other foreign exchange losses 7 Total Group finance expenses 401 327 Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 25 and 32.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense of 118 million 2006: 121 million.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to an expense of 4 million 2006: 1 million.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements comprise fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps used for hedging purposes and on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 refer to note 8. International Power Annual Report 2007 117 6 Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Employee benefit costs, including Directors remuneration, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Wages and salaries 139 129 Social security costs 10 11 Contributions to defined contribution plans 4 4 Charge for defined benefit plans note 7 8 10 Share-based payments equity settled 7 9 168 163 Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment 3 4 Total employee benefit costs 165 159 Remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate.
Further details of Directors remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 83 to 95.
There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc.
No member of key management had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 5 Post employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 2 2 Total employee benefit costs of key management personnel 8 8 The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Number Number North America 338 276 Europe 1,252 1,196 Middle East 566 625 Australia 783 769 Asia 599 628 Corporate and development 183 177 Average number of employees 3,721 3,671 118 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 7 Retirement benefit obligations Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees.
Benefits granted have been developed to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia: UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS, which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds.
The ESPS is divided into sections, and the International Power Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees past service rights were transferred into the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, the First Hydro Group.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2007.
The results of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2007 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2007, 52% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 85% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related to members in service.
AUSTRALIA: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper.
This plan provides benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria.
Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 November 2007, projected to December 2007.
The results of these valuations have been updated by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit method.
The Group has decided to recognise gains and losses through the income statement over the expected working lifetime of active employees to the extent that gains or losses are in excess of the corridor 10% of the greater of the defined benefit obligation and the plan assets.
The charge for 2007 in respect of defined contribution plans was 4 million 2006: 4 million.
At 31 December 2007, 98% of the membership relating to the Australian schemes consists of members in service.
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Financial assumptions UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia %% %%%%%% Discount rate 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.6 5.3 4.5 Rate of increase in salaries 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.3 4.4 4.0 4.4 4.0 Inflation rate 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 3.0 Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 3.4 n a 3.1 n a 2.9 n a 3.0 n a Increases to pensions payments 3.4 n a 3.1 n a 2.9 n a 2.9 n a The mortality assumptions used have a significant impact on scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The mortality assumptions at 31 December 2007 have been updated and are now based on a standard table derived from 1999-2002 census data.
The mortality tables allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups.
The following table of average life expectancies illustrates the assumptions used: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Mortality assumptions UK UK UK UK years years years years Life expectancy for a member aged 60 at year-end Men 25.9 22.8 22.8 22.8 Women 28.5 26.1 26.1 26.1 Life expectancy for a member aged 60 in 20 years time Men 27.3 23.7 23.7 23.7 Women 29.5 27.2 27.2 27.2 The plans in Australia provide lump sums at retirement and therefore the mortality assumption is much less important.
International Power Annual Report 2007 119 The amounts charged to profit from operations, recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended 31 December 2007 were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Current service cost 11 11 Expected return on schemes assets 16 13 Interest on schemes liabilities 12 10 Amortisation of past service cost 1 Curtailment cost 2 Total operating charge 8 10 The assets in the schemes and expected rates of return weighted averages were: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia Long-term rate of return expected: %% %%%%%% Equities 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.8 7.1 7.5 7.5 7.3 Bonds 5.2 5.1 4.7 4.6 4.4 5.0 4.9 4.8 Other 6.7 6.0 6.2 5.9 6.0 5.9 6.0 5.5 Total long-term rate of return expected 7.5 7.0 7.1 6.7 6.6 6.7 7.0 6.5 The expected rates of return reflect the Groups best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class.
These returns are based on advice provided by independent qualified actuaries.
The expected rates of return on bonds reflect the plans mix between index-linked, government and corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to long-term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities.
Other assets principally comprise cash and property.
The expected return on cash is derived from short-term interest rates and the return on cash instruments.
The expected return on other assets such as property is determined by adding an appropriate risk premium to government bonds in the relevant country.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total Assets in schemes: m m m m m m m m m m m m Equities 116 68 184 108 55 163 84 52 136 66 44 110 Bonds 20 18 38 17 15 32 14 17 31 11 16 27 Other 19 23 42 10 21 31 16 15 31 12 10 22 Total market value of assets 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159 The reconciliation of the schemes deficits surpluses to the balance sheet amount is: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m Total market value of assets 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159 Present value of scheme liabilities 176 93 269 158 83 241 151 79 230 114 70 184 Deficit surplus in the scheme 21 16 5 23 8 15 37 5 32 25 25 Unrecognised actuarial losses gains 1 18 17 10 10 12 7 5 4 4 Unrecognised asset due to limit in IAS 19 para 58 b Pension liability before deferred tax 20 2 22 23 2 25 25 2 27 25 4 29 120 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 7 Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in fair value of assets: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 226 198 Expected return on assets 16 13 Actuarial gains 4 9 Employer contributions 11 12 Scheme participants contributions 3 3 Benefits paid 5 3 Expenses, taxes and premiums paid 1 Exchange differences 9 5 At 31 December 264 226 Movements in defined benefit obligations: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 241 230 Service cost 11 11 Interest cost 12 10 Actuarial gains 2 6 Scheme participants contributions 3 3 Benefits paid 5 3 Expenses, taxes and premiums paid 1 Settlements, curtailments and amendments 1 2 Exchange differences 8 5 At 31 December 269 241 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities at 31 December 2007 are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 7.5% Rate of increase in salaries Increase by 0.5% Increase by 3.0% Inflation Increase by 0.5% Increase by 7.4% Rate of mortality UK plans only Pensioners live one year longer Increase by 3.0% History of asset experience gains and losses The transition date for conversion to Adopted IFRSs for International Power was 1 January 2004 and therefore the following historical data has been presented from that date.
This will be built up into a rolling five-year record next year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 2004 Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes assets: Amount m 4 916 9 Percentage of schemes assets 2% 4% 8% 6% Experience gains losses on schemes liabilities : Amount m 5 2 11 7 Percentage of the present value of schemes liabilities 2% 1% 5% 4% Does not include the effect of changes in assumptions.
Contributions in 2008 The Group expects to make contributions of approximately 7 million to its defined benefit pension arrangements in 2008. International Power Annual Report 2007 121 8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately presents exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
Where these contracts do not achieve own use treatment, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to market movements on these contracts, recorded within the income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity are also separately presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Mark to market movements 387 132 Amounts recognised in revenue 387 132 Impairment of Saltend gas contract 47 Impairment reversal of Deeside plant 36 Mark to market movements 45 68 Amounts recognised in cost of sales 2 32 Compensation in respect of the tolling agreement with TXU 14 Compensation in respect of breach of contract 5 Amounts recognised in other operating income 19 Provision against investment in BioX 9 Amounts recognised in other operating expenses 9 Mark to market movements 12 6 Amounts recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 6 Disposal of investment in Malakoff 115 Partial disposal of UK subsidiaries 174 Amounts recognised in disposal of interests in businesses 289 Mark to market movements 16 26 Amounts recognised in finance expenses 16 26 Taxation on impairment of Saltend gas contract 14 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with acquisition of Maestrale 49 Taxation on Deeside plant impairment reversal 11 Taxation on compensation in respect of the tolling agreement with TXU 4 Taxation on mark to market movements 96 10 Exceptional taxation and taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 159 25 Total exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after attributable taxation 46 74 122 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements continued At 31 December 2007, the intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement, acquired with Saltend in 2005, was impaired following a reduction in the gas forward price curve.
A charge of 47 million and associated tax credit of 14 million are classified as exceptional items.
On 30 June 2007 the Group made a full provision against its investment in BioX due to increases in palm oil prices.
On 30 April 2007 the Group completed the sale of its interests in the Malakoff wholesale power generation business to MMC Corporation resulting in a profit on disposal of 115 million refer to note 24.
On 20 June 2007 the Group completed the formation of a new partnership with Mitsui & Co. Ltd Mitsui.
The partnership created a common ownership platform for the UK assets, excluding Derwent, and equalised returns from Paiton.
A profit on disposal of 174 million was recorded on the partial disposal of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens refer to note 31.
On 28 December 2007 a change in the standard rate of Italian corporation tax from 37.5% to 31.4%, effective from 1 January 2008, was approved by the Italian government.
Consequently all relevant deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007 have been remeasured at 31.4%.
The resulting net credit of 49 million relating to reducing the net deferred tax liabilities of the Maestrale acquisition has been presented as an exceptional item due to its magnitude and proximity of the date of change in standard rate of tax to the date of acquisition.
At the end of 2006 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Deeside power plant based on its estimated value in use.
This led to the full impairment reversal of the remaining 36 million impairment charge previously booked against this asset.
A tax charge of 11 million was recorded on this item.
In the year ended 31 December 2006, Rugeley Power received further payments from TXU Administrators amounting to 16 million.
An exceptional gain of 14 million was recorded, net of payments to creditors.
A tax charge of 4 million was recorded on this item.
In June 2006 the Group received a settlement of 10 million following the conclusion of an international arbitration action under ICC rules for breach of contract entered into in 2000 to transfer operating rights over three power plants in Turkey.
An exceptional gain of 5 million was recorded, net of cost recoveries.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are separately identified within the preceding table described as mark to market movements.
For the year ended 31 December 2007 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a loss of 346 million and on tax expense a credit of 96 million.
For the year ended 31 December 2006 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a profit of 44 million and on tax expense a charge of 10 million.
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses includes a charge of 17 million in respect of the fair value gains and losses on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013.
Year ended 31 December 2006 is a charge of 28 million.
International Power Annual Report 2007 123 9 Tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m a Tax expense for the year Current tax charge UK corporation tax charge 68 52 Foreign tax 52 40 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 6 Total current tax charge for the year 124 98 Deferred tax charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 168 64 Benefits of tax losses recognised 2 15 Total deferred tax credit charge for the year 170 49 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 113 122 Exceptional tax credit 49 Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 110 25 Total income tax credit expense for the year 46 147 Included in the tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, included in: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Revenue deferred tax 101 33 Cost of sales deferred tax 4 4 Other operating income current tax 4 Finance expenses deferred tax 5 8 Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 110 25 The deferred tax charge is derived as follows: 54 million from UK operations 2006: 46 million and 116 million from foreign operations 2006: 3 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Tax credited charged to: Income statement 46 147 Equity 25 43 21 104 124 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 9 Tax continued Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006 Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items and specific and specific and specific and specific IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark to market to market to market to market movements movements movements movements m m m m b Reconciliation of tax expense to accounting profit Profit before tax before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 596 596 525 525 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 113 99 Profit before tax 596 483 525 624 Tax at domestic tax rate of 30% 2006: 30% 179 145 158 187 Tax effect of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 44 14 14 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 42 42 38 38 Tax holidays 8 8 10 10 Expenses not deductible income not taxable in determining taxable profit 10 63 4 6 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 4 7 4 6 Change in tax rate 31 80 Adjustment to prior year provisions 55 66 Tax expense for the year 113 46 122 147 Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 60 million 2006: 55 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 42 million shown above 2006: 38 million represents 70% of this tax charge 2006: 70%.
The remaining 30% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 60 million 2006: 54 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The statutory tax rate in the UK has been reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.
Tax rate reductions have also occurred in Italy, Germany and the Czech Republic.
The effect of these rate changes is included in the above amounts.
10 Dividends At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM held on 15 May 2007, shareholders approved the payment of a final dividend of 7.9p 2006: 4.5p per Ordinary Share to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 25 May 2007.
This dividend amounted to 118 million 2006: 67 million and was paid on 26 June 2007.
An interim dividend of 2.77p per Ordinary Share, proposed by the Directors, was paid on 30 October 2007.
This dividend amounted to 42 million 2006: nil.
In respect of the current year, the Directors propose a dividend of 7.39p per Ordinary Share, to be paid on 26 June 2008.
The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM and has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2007.
There are no tax consequences to the Company from the estimated total dividend to be paid of 111 million.
International Power Annual Report 2007 125 11 Earnings per share EPS Earnings per share is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be found in note 8 to these consolidated financial statements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 pence pence a Earnings per share basic Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 27.1 22.4 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 33.6 27.6 b Earnings per share diluted Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 25.7 21.3 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 31.8 26.2 c Basis of calculation basic earnings m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 406 332 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and minority interests 97 78 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 503 410 d Basis of calculation diluted earnings m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 406 332 After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds 6 7 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 412 339 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and minority interests 97 78 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 509 417 e Basis of calculation basic number of Ordinary Shares Million Million Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,498.5 1,486.2 Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs 0.5 1.4 Weighted average number of shares 1,498.0 1,484.8 f Basis of calculation diluted number of Ordinary Shares Million Million Weighted average number of shares basic 1,498.0 1,484.8 Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Employee share schemes 10.8 14.0 Convertible bond 92.8 91.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,601.6 1,589.9 In July 2006 the Group issued 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013, which in 2007 and 2006 were anti-dilutive and have therefore been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
In future periods this financial instrument could potentially dilute basic earnings per share.
126 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 12 Goodwill 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 226 189 Acquired through business combinations 464 40 Exchange differences 43 3 At 31 December 733 226 The 464 million acquired through business combinations in 2007 relates to Maestrale 360 million, Simply Energy 71 million, Saltend 23 million and First Hydro 10 million.
Refer to note 31 for further details of the acquisitions.
Given the geographical diversity of the Groups power plants and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the Directors consider that each power plant owning subsidiary is a separate cash generating unit.
The following cash generating units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Maestrale Europe 391 First Hydro Europe 163 153 Simply Energy Australia 80 Coleto Creek North America 37 38 Turbogs Europe 28 26 Saltend Europe 23 International Power Opatovice Europe 9 8 Others 2 1 733 226 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The cash generating units recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations.
These are based on projected cash flows, which may extend forward as much as 40 years, from individual project whole life asset models.
These cash flows have been discounted using rates in the range 6% to 13% on a pre-tax basis.
Key assumptions include the discount rates and market prices for electricity and fuel costs over the lives of the assets.
These market prices are considered in the light of forward price curves which represent the Groups view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates and forecast demand and supply growth over the lives of the assets.
Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
The projected cash flows extend over the whole of the assets expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the returns generated by the long-life assets.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the respective cash generating unit.
International Power Annual Report 2007 127 13 Other intangible assets Contracts Emission Total and rights allowances m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 234 234 Additions 3939 Acquisition of subsidiaries 49 64 113 Disposals 39 39 Exchange differences 1 3 4 At 31 December 2006 282 61 343 Additions 15758 Acquisition of subsidiaries 69 12 81 Disposals 10 10 Exchange differences 213 At 31 December 2007 354 121 475 Amortisation and impairments At 1 January 2006 40 40 Amortisation charge for the year 101 4 105 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 2006 141 3 144 Amortisation charge for the year 66 49 115 Impairments 47 47 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 2007 255 52 307 Carrying amount At 1 January 2006 194 194 At 31 December 2006 141 58 199 At 31 December 2007 99 69 168 Contracts and rights are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
The contracts and rights acquired in 2007 principally relate to fixed-price offtake agreements and favourable contracts acquired as part of the Maestrale acquisition and our other European wind farm acquisitions.
The amortisation of these contracts are included in revenue.
The acquired contracts and rights in 2006 relate to commodity contracts acquired as part of the acquisitions of Coleto Creek and Indian Queens.
The amortisation of these contracts is charged to cost of sales in the income statement.
In addition, fixed price offtake agreements were acquired as part of the acquisition of Levanto.
Amortisation of these agreements is included in revenue.
In 2007 the carrying amount of the Saltend gas contract was impaired in full.
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of 81 million 2006: 97 million are subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
The Group has recognised any emission allowances, allocated to the Group for no consideration, net of the fair value of the grant.
As a result, no net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition.
The amortisation of any emission allowances purchased or acquired through business combinations is charged to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
As part of the European Union EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS, designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over the medium term, the Group was granted emission allowances amounting to 62 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 2006: 49 million.
128 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, machinery Assets in course Total buildings and equipment of construction m m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 180 4,540 316 5,036 Additions 3 169 64 236 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 653 64 722 Disposals 13 13 Reclassifications and transfers 20 19 314 353 Exchange differences 4 254 36 294 At 31 December 2006 164 5,076 94 5,334 Additions 4 60 167 231 Government grants received 1 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 977 85 1,064 Disposals 11 12 23 Reclassifications and transfers 1 91 136 44 Exchange differences 10 275 20 305 At 31 December 2007 170 6,467 229 6,866 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2006 34 795 829 Depreciation charge for the year 10 158 168 Disposals 8 8 Impairment reversal 36 36 Reclassifications 7 7 Exchange differences 1 53 54 At 31 December 2006 36 863 899 Depreciation charge for the year 10 195 205 Disposals 6 12 18 Exchange differences 3 56 59 At 31 December 2007 43 1,102 1,145 Carrying amount At 1 January 2006 146 3,745 316 4,207 At 31 December 2006 128 4,213 94 4,435 At 31 December 2007 127 5,365 229 5,721 Interest capitalised in the year was 5 million 2006: 1 million, at an average capitalisation rate of 7%.
On a cumulative basis, after taking into account exchange differences and depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is 64 million 2006: 60 million.
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is 41 million 2006: 46 million.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 5,377 million 2006: 4,163 million is subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
In 2007 reclassifications and transfers consist of amounts moved from assets in course of construction to plant, machinery and equipment and to finance lease receivables and inventories.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 1 million 2006: nil is subject to finance lease arrangements.
International Power Annual Report 2007 129 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups joint ventures and associates is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m a Joint ventures net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 1,173 1,220 Current assets 225 316 Total assets 1,398 1,536 Current liabilities 123 204 Non-current liabilities 565 588 Total liabilities 688 792 Net assets 710 744 Groups share of joint ventures net assets 346 365 b Associates net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 5,847 5,630 Current assets 1,298 1,247 Total assets 7,145 6,877 Current liabilities 724 695 Non-current liabilities 3,975 3,788 Total liabilities 4,699 4,483 Net assets 2,446 2,394 Groups share of associates net assets 933 899 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m c Results of joint ventures Revenue 693 771 Profit for the year 122 124 Groups share of results of joint ventures Share of revenue 340 379 Share of profit for the year 59 59 d Results of associates Revenue 2,501 2,501 Profit for the year 426 460 Groups share of results of associates Share of revenue 820 820 Share of profit for the year 139 155 At 31 December 2007 the Groups investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited HUBCO and Kot Addu Power Company Limited KAPCO.
HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues to apply the equity method of accounting to HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% refer to note 38.
The Groups share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at 50 million 2006: 46 million and 125 million 2006: 108 million, respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets.
Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments were in excess of the respective carrying amounts at the year end.
A subsidiary, Al Kamil, is listed on the Muscat Securities Market and was valued at 15 million on 31 December 2007 2006: 14 million.
The Group owns 65% of Al Kamil.
Included within the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of 1,297 million 2006: 1,524 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group company.
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 38.
130 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 16 Other investments 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Investments available-for-sale Carrying amount At 1 January 26 4 Additions 23 Disposals 2 1 Provisions 9 Repayments 1 Exchange differences 1 At 31 December 13 26 The Group owns debt instruments and minority shareholdings in a number of businesses related to power generation.
The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of their discounted cash flows.
The equity instruments are not quoted but are shares in privately owned companies.
There is no market for these investments.
Therefore the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying amount has been determined by using the cost of acquiring the shares in these companies.
It is not currently the intention of the Company to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change.
During 2007 the Group fully provided against its investment in BioX refer to note 8.
The provision arose from an assessment of the prospective cash flows of the business following a significant increase in palm oil prices.
17 Finance lease receivables Present value of minimum lease payments 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Minimum lease payments: Within one year 41 33 127 110 Later than one year and not later than five years 184 144 500 427 After five years 939 828 1,529 1,389 1,164 1,005 2,156 1,926 Add: unguaranteed residual value after five years 129 73 Gross investment in the lease 2,285 1,999 Less: unearned finance income 992 921 Total finance lease receivables 1,293 1,078 Analysed as: Non-current finance lease receivables recoverable after 12 months 1,252 1,045 Current finance lease receivables recoverable within 12 months 41 33 Total finance lease receivables 1,293 1,078 Analysed as: Present value of minimum lease payments 1,164 1,005 Add: unguaranteed residual value 129 73 Total finance lease receivables 1,293 1,078 International Powers business is the generation of electricity.
The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases.
The tenors of the finance leases are usually a substantial portion of the assets useful economic lives.
The interest rate inherent in the lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term.
The average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 7% per annum 2006: 8% per annum.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2007 is estimated at 1,226 million 2006: 1,106 million based on discounting estimated cash flows at the market rate.
Excluding assets which are constructed by the Group, the cost of assets acquired by the Group during the year for onward finance leasing was 126 million 2006: 273 million.
There are no finance lease receivables past due.
Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
International Power Annual Report 2007 131 18 Other long-term receivables 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Total other long-term receivables 91 94 At 31 December 2007 receivables with a carrying amount of 7 million 2006: 6 million were past due for more than six months for which an impairment loss has not been recognised.
Offsetting liabilities are held against these receivables.
19 Deferred tax Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet and the potential amounts of deferred tax are: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment accelerated capital allowances 989 569 Other temporary differences 35 277 Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 59 57 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,083 903 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax assets: Provisions 43 Tax losses 139 161 Other temporary differences 279 245 Total gross deferred tax assets 418 449 Less: deferred tax assets not recognised 144 155 Total deferred tax assets 274 294 Net deferred tax liabilities 809 609 Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
Of the 139 million 2006: 161 million deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses, 95 million 2006: 106 million can be carried forward for a period of between 15 and 21 years.
The balance can be carried forward indefinitely.
Of the 139 million 2006: 161 million of losses, 44 million has been recognised 2006: 55 million.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was 1,154 million 2006: 888 million.
At 31 December 2007 a deferred tax provision of 59 million 2006: 57 million has been recognised in respect of temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal of the timing difference.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for balance sheet purposes.
31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax liabilities 951 702 Deferred tax assets 142 93 Net deferred tax liabilities 809 609 As outlined in note 9, changes to the tax rates in certain jurisdictions were enacted or substantively enacted during 2007.
132 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 19 Deferred tax continued Movement in temporary differences during the year: 1 January Recognised Other Recognised Acquisition of Exchange 31 December 2007 in income movements in equity subsidiaries differences 2007 m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 330 80 345 337 57 989 Other temporary differences 222 95 354 21 22 13 239 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 57 5 3 59 609 170 12 21 359 44 809 1 January Recognised Other Recognised Acquisition of Exchange 31 December 2006 in income movements in equity subsidiaries differences 2006 m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 306 17 12 41 12 330 Other temporary differences 133 49 8 43 5 222 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 40 17 1 1 57 479 49 5 43 41 8 609 20 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Plant spares 27 26 Fuel inventories 47 55 Consumables 84 60 Total inventories 158 141 Inventories with a carrying amount of 95 million 2006: 116 million are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities at various power plant subsidiaries.
These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc.
Included within cost of sales are 211 million 2006: 288 million of inventories recognised as an expense in the year.
Inventories with a carrying amount of 2 million 2006: nil were written down during the year and recorded as an expense in the income statement.
21 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Trade receivables 221 142 Other receivables 375 157 Accrued income 49 645 299 Prepayments 81 103 Total trade and other receivables 726 402 The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.
Total trade and other receivables are stated net of the following provisions for irrecoverable amounts.
31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 23 16 Amounts provided for during the year 7 At 31 December 23 23 International Power Annual Report 2007 133 Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income are analysed as follows: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Retail Corporate Government Total Retail Corporate Government Total m m m m m m m m Not overdue 35 397 185 617 1 251 38 290 Up to 1 month past due 3 3 Between 1 and 3 months past due 2 2 Between 3 and 6 months past due 4 4 More than 6 months past due 19 19 9 9 At 31 December 44 416 185 645 1 260 38 299 Retail energy sales are those to residential, commercial, and industrial customers to cover end-use purposes.
This mostly comprises sales to customers of Simply Energy in South Australia and Victoria in Australia.
Corporate energy sales are principally to merchant trading counterparties in the wholesale power market and comprise electricity utility companies, who require energy to meet retail sales requirements, and market makers such as large investment banks.
In the preceding table, the term Government is used to describe customers who are either owned directly by government or the State or are institutions backed by guarantees from government.
Sales to these customers are typically administered under long-term power purchase agreements.
Customers will include water and electricity authorities located in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
The majority of the trade receivables which are not overdue relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
Corporate receivables more than six months overdue relate to contractual disputes where we have significant counter claims or offsetting liabilities.
The preceding table shows 28 million 4% of debtors are overdue and, of these, 25 million 4% relates to outstanding amounts greater than one month past due.
As at 31 December 2007, all the merchant trading and PPA counterparties have demonstrated a consistent payment history and no defaults have been registered in 2007 2006: nil.
Management maintain a bad debt provision appropriate to the limited likelihood of retail, merchant and power purchase agreement payment defaults.
Concentrations of credit risk relating to the Groups wholesale power sales are limited due to the diversity of unrelated customers for our power plants located worldwide.
For the Groups retail business in Australia, Simply Energy, concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being both large and unrelated.
Power purchase agreements and tolling agreements with major institutions can potentially have high concentration risk but this risk is mitigated by the diversity of similar arrangements within our worldwide portfolio.
22 Derivative financial instruments 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Energy derivatives 208 734 236 362 Interest rate swaps 30 24 15 9 Options over equity 30 76 30 59 268 834 281 430 Current 223 508 243 204 Non-current 45 326 38 226 268 834 281 430 The Group utilises interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate exposures by swapping an element of its borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
As at 31 December 2007, the total notional value of interest rate swaps was 2,289 million 2006: 2,007 million.
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses.
The Group already has an equity interest in some of these businesses.
The Group has also issued convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc.
The conversion feature in the 3.25% convertible euro bond is accounted for as an embedded derivative refer to note 25.
The Group sometimes utilises foreign currency exchange contracts to manage its foreign exchange rate exposures.
As at 31 December 2007, the total notional value of these contracts was 15 million 2006: 45 million and the mark to market was nil 2006: nil.
134 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 23 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank 672 378 Short-term deposits 489 602 Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 1,161 980 The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes 377 million 2006: 211 million of cash which is considered to be restricted as it is primarily to secure amounts required for debt repayments and letters of credit.
24 Assets held for sale The sale of the Groups investment in the Malakoff wholesale power generation business to MMC Corporation was completed on 30 April 2007.
This resulted in proceeds of 249 million and a profit on disposal of 115 million.
The profit on disposal is included in Disposal of interests in businesses in the income statement refer to note 8.
25 Loans and bonds An analysis of the interest-bearing loans and bonds, which are measured at amortised cost, is as follows: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Face value Carrying Face value Carrying amount amount m m m m a Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans 357 352 235 231 1 Secured bonds 12 12 10 10 369 364 245 241 Non-current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans 4,296 4,256 3,255 3,209 1 Secured bonds 634 682 626 677 4,930 4,938 3,881 3,886 Total secured interest-bearing loans and bonds 5,299 5,302 4,126 4,127 b Unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 2 Loans from minority interests 24 24 3 Preferred equity facility 151 151 175 175 Non-current liabilities 2 Loans from minority interests 91 91 81 81 3 Preferred equity facility 153 152 4 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 127 115 129 113 5 3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013 169 140 155 124 387 346 518 470 Total unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds 562 521 518 470 c Total interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 544 539 245 241 Non-current liabilities 5,317 5,284 4,399 4,356 Total interest-bearing loans and bonds 5,861 5,823 4,644 4,597 International Power Annual Report 2007 135 A description of the foregoing items is as follows: 1 Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Secured bank loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks.
Secured bonds comprise those relating to the financing of First Hydro and the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of 5,302 million 2006: 4,127 million are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Substantially all of the Groups power stations, generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to International Power plc and secured solely on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
Although not in default of principal or interest payment terms, at 31 December 2007 the Group had borrowings of 62 million in technical default which could have allowed the lender to demand accelerated repayment of the loan.
At 31 December 2007 the loan is classified as a current liability on the balance sheet.
The technical defaults were cured during the first quarter of 2008.
2 Loans from minority interests Loans from minority interests comprise both term loans and working capital facilities provided by minority shareholders in subsidiaries.
These loans and working capital facilities are provided on an unsecured basis for various maturity periods and have interest terms based on fixed or floating rates as specified in each individual agreement.
3 Preferred equity facility The preferred equity facility comprises US$300 million in preference shares which were issued by Impala Magpie Limited to Mitsui Power Ventures Limited for the purposes of financing the acquisition of the EME portfolio which was completed in December 2004.
Impala Magpie Limited is a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mitsui & Co of Japan.
Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is International Powers partner in IPM Eagle LLP, which is the owner of assets formerly owned by Edison Mission Energy, and IPM UK Power Holdings Limited, which is the owner of certain UK generating assets.
The preference shares entitle the holder to a preferred dividend coupon of US dollar LIBOR plus 2%.
The preference shares are redeemable from 16 December 2008 and may also be redeemed if funds become available following the sale of certain assets.
International Power Impala, a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power plc, has granted Mitsui Power Ventures Limited a put option to sell 70% of the preference shares it holds on the date of exercise.
The put option is exercisable in certain circumstances, including where Impala Magpie Limited fails to redeem the preference shares on maturity.
Although the preference shares are unsecured, International Power plc has agreed to guarantee International Power Impala s obligations to Mitsui & Co of Japan and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited.
4 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 On 22 August 2003, International Power Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 3.75% convertible notes due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 168p at any time up to 12 August 2023.
Each US$1,000 principal amount of notes will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited.
The notes may be redeemed at the holders option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured notes will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
Following the extinguishment of a cash settlement option on 17 January 2005, the remaining conversion feature, being an equity call option held by the bondholders was recognised in equity.
The remaining debt element of the convertible bond accretes to par value over the life of the bond at a constant periodic rate based on its carrying amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.65% to the liability component for the period since the convertible US dollar bond was issued.
This is in addition to the coupon interest rate of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the convertible US dollar bonds at 31 December 2007 to be approximately 122 million 31 December 2006: 114 million.
This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2007.
136 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 25 Loans and bonds continued 5 3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013 On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance Jersey II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued 230 million 3.25% convertible notes due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 384p at any time up to 20 July 2013.
Each 50,000 principal amount of notes will entitle the holder to convert into a 50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured notes will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond have been split between the debt element and an embedded derivative component.
This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.39% to the liability component for the period since the convertible euro bond was issued.
This is in addition to the coupon interest rate of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the convertible euro bonds at 31 December 2007 to be approximately 137 million 31 December 2006: 133 million.
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations in Europe and Australia.
The value of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the balance sheet date was: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Euro 165 150 Australian dollar 38 37 203 187 The foreign exchange loss of 17 million 2006: gain of 5 million on re-translation of these loans has been taken to the translation reserve on consolidation.
Maturity of borrowings The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to loans and bonds and a reconciliation from undiscounted cash flows, including interest coupons, to carrying amounts: 31 December 2007 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans 528 603 2,623 2,222 5,976 50 1,318 4,608 Secured bonds 73 61 180 995 1,309 2 613 694 Loans from minority interests 41 17 150 208 93 115 Preferred equity facility 167 167 16 151 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6 5 14 178 203 1 87 115 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 8 5 17 172 202 2 60 140 823 691 2,984 3,567 8,065 55 2,187 5,823 31 December 2006 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans 471 519 1,481 2,227 4,698 50 1,208 3,440 Secured bonds 69 59 186 1,033 1,347 5 655 687 Loans from minority interests 21 9 71 101 20 81 Preferred equity facility 13 169 182 30 152 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 7 5 14 185 211 2 96 113 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 7 5 15 163 190 2 64 124 588 766 1,767 3,608 6,729 59 2,073 4,597 Other non-cash items represent debt issue costs.
The above table assumes the convertible bonds are redeemed by the payment of cash at maturity.
International Power Annual Report 2007 137 26 Net debt Analysis of changes in net debt 1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2007 of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2007 excluding cash movements m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 980 165 16 1,161 Assets held for trading 42 1 44 1 Total funds 1,022 1 121 17 1,161 Loans due within one year 231 68 67 10 376 Loans due after more than one year 3,290 693 11 167 186 4,347 Secured bonds due within one year 10 1 1 12 Secured bonds due after more than one year 677 2 12 19 682 Preferred equity facility 152 1 2 151 Convertible bonds 237 9 9 255 Total debt 4,597 761 19 223 223 5,823 Net debt 3,575 761 18 102 206 4,662 1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2006 of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2006 excluding cash movements m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 620 386 26 980 Assets held for trading 52 2 9 3 42 Total funds 672 2 377 29 1,022 Loans due within one year 187 26 96 73 5 231 Loans due after more than one year 2,802 40 84 756 224 3,290 Secured bonds due within one year 10 10 Secured bonds due after more than one year 445 233 3 2 677 Preferred equity facility 173 21 152 Convertible bonds 125 24 152 16 237 Total debt 3,732 309 15 835 264 4,597 Net debt 3,060 309 17 458 235 3,575 27 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Trade payables 184 85 Other payables 222 226 Accruals 268 206 Deferred income 35 12 Total trade and other payables 709 529 The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
All trade and other payables are expected to fall due within one year.
138 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 28 Provisions Commodity Leave Site Other Total contracts provisions restoration m m m m m At 1 January 2007 133 17 16 18 184 Acquisitions 17 3 20 Provisions made during the year 3 3 2 13 21 Provisions utilised during the year 53 3 56 Unwinding discount 1 1 Exchange differences 1 2 2 1 4 At 31 December 2007 99 19 21 35 174 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Current liabilities 83 58 Non-current liabilities 91 126 Total provisions 174 184 Commodity contracts added in 2007 principally relate to onerous customer contracts fair valued as part of the acquisition of Simply Energy refer to note 31.
Most of this provision will unwind during 2008 and will be credited to revenue in the income statement.
The carrying amount of existing commodity contracts brought forward from 2006 relate to out of the money power sales contracts acquired as part of the acquisition of Coleto Creek in 2006.
When the provision is utilised it is credited to revenue in the income statement.
This provision is expected to be mostly utilised by 2014.
Other provisions principally relate to onerous property leases and disputed contractual amounts and penalties.
10 million has been provided for during the year for the expected vacancy period for leased premises at Senator House in London.
The lease provision is expected to be utilised within the next three years.
International Power Annual Report 2007 139 29 Share-based payments a Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued by the Group out of authorised but unissued share capital upon exercise of options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan: the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share Option Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
The total number of options outstanding at the end of the year was as follows: Number of Ordinary Shares Option Date Year ended Year ended price range exercisable 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Sharesave Plans 70.33p-389.00p 2006-2013 6,429,720 6,021,436 Executive Share Option Plans 62.32p-388.25p 2000-2016 14,695,753 21,294,173 2002 Performance Share Plan 74.79p 2003 onwards 1,230,108 Total options outstanding 21,125,473 28,545,717 Details of each Plan are set out on the following pages: i Sharesave Plans The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions to invest up to a maximum of 250 or foreign currency equivalent per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group.
The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option.
Options are exercisable at the prices set out below.
The option exercise period commences either three or five years after the option has been granted determined at the time that the employee enters into the savings agreement and if the options remain unexercised after a period of six months following the beginning of the option exercise period, the options expire.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 70.33 pence to 389.00 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.36 years 2006: 2.36 years.
140 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 29 Share-based payments continued ii Executive Share Option Plans The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share option plans.
Options are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company.
The exercise price of the options is fixed at the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted.
The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns from the Company.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 388.25 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 5.8 years 2006: 6.8 years.
International Power Annual Report 2007 141 iii 2002 Performance Share Plan Under this Plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company.
These conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition determined at the time that the conditional awards are made.
In 2003 the Group granted to the Trustee of the International Power Employee Share Ownership Trust an option to acquire 3,807,057 Ordinary Shares in the Company at an option price of 84 pence per share.
Following a rights issue in 2004, the number of shares under option was increased to 4,276,215 and the option exercise price was adjusted to 74.79 pence per share.
This option could only be exercised to the extent required to satisfy conditional awards made under the Performance Share Plan.
These conditional awards can only vest after the end of the relevant performance period and only to the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
During 2006 the Trustee exercised this option to the extent of 3,046,107 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2006.
During 2007 the Trustee exercised this option over the remaining 1,230,108 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2007. b Fair value of options under Share Option Plans i Sharesave Plans The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 136 pence per share 2006: 82 pence per share.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The inputs into the model were as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted average share price 473p 250p Weighted average exercise price 389p 200p Expected volatility 25% 30% Expected life 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 4.44% 4.16% Expected dividend yield 2.70% 2.36% ii Executive Share Option Plans The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 76 pence per share 2006: 61 pence per share.
The inputs into the model were as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted average share price 384p 269p Weighted average exercise price 388p 281p Expected volatility 25% 30% Expected life 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 5.11% 4.39% Expected dividend yield 2.70% 2.36% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous six years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
iii 2002 Performance Share Plan No performance share plan options were granted during the current or prior year.
142 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 30 Share capital and reserves Authorised Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m Number m At 1 January 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 7,826,019 4 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 830,476 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 1,230,108 1 At 31 December 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751 Authorised Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m Number m At 1 January 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 13,073,207 6 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 1,196,959 1 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 3,046,107 2 At 31 December 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company.
Deferred shares The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 pence each in issue.
These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible.
The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting.
Unclassified share Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Companys authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of 1. International Power Annual Report 2007 143 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Share Share Capital Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained Total capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity account reserve m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 746 402 145 422 6 78 819 2,462 Profit for the year 503 503 Other recognised income and expenses relating to the year 9 90 113 14 Issue of shares 5 9 14 Distributions 160 160 Other movements 11 11 At 31 December 2007 751 411 145 422 9 84 35 1,173 2,844 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Share Share Capital Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained Total capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity account reserve m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 422 118 49 463 2,092 Profit for the year 410 410 Other recognised income and expenses relating to the year 124 127 3 Issue of shares 9 8 17 Distributions 67 67 Other movements 13 13 At 31 December 2006 746 402 145 422 6 78 819 2,462 The share capital represents the authorised Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends or capital of the Company.
A number of International Power plc Ordinary Shares are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs.
These shares are held by the ESOTs to meet awards made under the Companys 2002 Performance Share Plan.
At 31 December 2007, the ESOTs held 253,990 International Power plc Ordinary Shares 2006: 1,241,452.
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares required to meet all outstanding awards assuming full vesting of those awards as at 31 December 2007 was 6,139,922 2006: 6,444,745.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of its Ordinary Shares in conjunction with HM Treasurys sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company.
The reserve was subsequently increased in the years ended 31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these shares were cancelled.
The capital redemption reserve is not distributable.
The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB were divided among the CEGB successor companies.
The revaluation reserve comprises the deficit arising from the revaluation of certain intangible assets as part of the step acquisition of Simply Energy on 16 August 2007 refer to note 31a.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, until the forecast transaction occurs.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign operations refer to note 32d.
424 million 2006: 527 million of the Groups retained earnings is not distributable as it arose from unrealised gains on intra-group transfers.
144 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 31 Acquisitions and disposals a Simply Energy On 7 July 2005, iPower Pty Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed a retail energy partnership agreement with EnergyAustralia.
The consideration was 27 million for a 50% share of the partnership.
The retail energy partnership sells electricity and gas to retail customers in Victoria and South Australia.
In the Group accounts, the retail partnership was accounted for as a jointly controlled entity and its results were accounted for under the equity method with effect from 7 July 2005.
On 16 August 2007, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the EnergyAustralia and International Power Australia retail energy partnership, through its subsidiary IP Retail Pty Limited, for 56 million.
Following the completion of this transaction the business was renamed Simply Energy.
The results of Simply Energy have been consolidated as a subsidiary from this date using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, result and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value Fair value carrying adjustments to the amount Group m m m Other intangible assets 6 6 Trade receivables 19 19 Other receivables 1 1 Prepayments and accrued income 35 35 Derivative financial assets 40 40 Cash and cash equivalents 4 4 Bank loans 25 25 Trade payables 27 27 Other payables 2 2 Deferred tax 20 7 13 Provisions 17 17 Net assets acquired 31 16 15 Goodwill arising on acquisition 71 Fair value of net assets acquired and goodwill 86 Components of cost of acquisition Consideration for initial 50% shareholding in July 2005 27 Consideration for remaining 50% shareholding 56 Total cost of acquisition 83 Earnings under equity method of initial 50% shareholding while Simply Energy was a jointly controlled entity 11 Revaluation deficit on step acquisition 8 Fair value of net assets acquired and goodwill 86 Consideration for remaining 50% shareholding 56 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 Net cash outflow to the Group 52 In the period from 17 August 2007 to 31 December 2007, Simply Energy contributed 88 million of revenue and 2 million to the Groups profit from operations both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, it contributed to the Group 85 million of revenue and incurred a loss from operations of 3 million.
It also contributed 14 million to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid 1 million in respect of net interest and nil in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired and principally represent the recognition of the fair value of non-contractual customer relationships included by the acquiree as intangible assets, the recognition of provisions for unprovided amounts in respect of onerous customer contracts, and the associated deferred tax on the temporary timing difference created by the fair value adjustments.
International Power Annual Report 2007 145 Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents a payment made by the acquirer in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised.
In the case of Simply Energy, goodwill is generated by non-contractual customer relationships and synergies existing within the acquired business, such as the value of the assembled workforce.
Synergies expected to be achieved as a result of combining Simply Energy with the International Power Group also contribute to goodwill.
Goodwill is recognised on the acquisition of Simply Energy as a result of the continuing recognition of goodwill previously recognised in July 2005 on the acquisition of the initial 50% interest in the jointly controlled entity.
Further goodwill arises on consolidation following the acquisition in August 2007.
The revaluation deficit comprises the adjustment to the fair values in August 2007 of customer relationships and customer contracts which were treated as own use in accounting for the initial 50% interest in the retail partnership under the equity method.
It is impracticable to state what the impact would have been on Group revenue and profit for the year had the acquisition been completed on 1 January 2007 due to the difficulty in ascertaining the valuation of assets and liabilities at that time.
b Maestrale On 31 August 2007 International Power plc, through wholly owned subsidiaries, completed the acquisition of the 636 MW Maestrale wind farm portfolio which comprised 581 MW in operation and 55 MW under construction.
Maestrale was acquired from private investors connected with the Matrix Group and CJS Capital Partners Limited.
The wind farm portfolio is located onshore in Germany and, predominantly, in southern Italy.
The results of Maestrale have been consolidated as a subsidiary from 31 August 2007 using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value Fair value carrying adjustments to the amount Group m m m Other intangible assets 6464 Property, plant and equipment 343 675 1,018 Finance lease receivable 75 22 97 Inventory 11 11 Trade receivables 20 20 Other receivables 124 124 Derivative financial assets 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 44 44 Bank loans 41 41 Trade payables 20 20 Other payables 8 8 Accruals 56 56 Current tax liabilities 18 18 Bank loans 652 652 Deferred tax 65 283 348 Provisions 3 3 Net assets acquired 242 478 236 Minority interests in net assets acquired 1 Goodwill arising on acquisition 360 Groups share of net assets acquired and goodwill 595 Satisfied by: Cash consideration paid including 2 million acquisition costs 595 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 44 Net cash outflow to the Group 551 146 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 31 Acquisitions and disposals continued In the period from 1 September 2007 to 31 December 2007, Maestrale contributed 40 million of revenue and 9 million to the Groups profit from operations both including and excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
It also contributed 22 million to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid 18 million in respect of net interest and 4 million in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired.
These principally represent the recognition of intangible assets consisting of contract-based intangibles and the value of green certificates held at the date of acquisition, the recognition of operating plant and assets under construction as well as finance leases at fair value.
Deferred tax is also recognised for the temporary timing difference created by the fair value adjustments.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of the Maestrale wind farm portfolio as a result of value, attributed to future cash flows associated with the expected repowerings of the assets and the resulting life extension of the tariff regimes, in excess of the amount that can be attributed to property, plant and equipment.
Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the year end, the complexity of the business and the number of entities acquired, the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities are provisional and may be revised.
Similarly for the same reasons, it is impracticable to state what the impact would have been on Group revenue and profit for the year had the acquisition been completed on 1 January 2007 due to the difficulty in ascertaining the valuation of assets and liabilities at that time.
c Other acquisitions and disposals New partnership with Mitsui On 20 June 2007, International Power completed the formation of a new partnership with Mitsui & Co. Ltd Mitsui.
The partnership created a common ownership platform for the UK assets, excluding Derwent, held 75% International Power and 25% Mitsui, and equalised the returns from Paiton, Indonesia.
This follows the Extraordinary General Meeting on 15 June 2007, when shareholders voted in favour of the transaction.
As part of this agreement, International Power sold a 25% equity interest in Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens to Mitsui and acquired an additional 5% equity interest in First Hydro and Saltend.
Mitsui provided a 200 million credit facility to support trading activities of the UK assets.
International Power also acquired the right to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to 9.2% of Paitons earnings and cash distributions.
The sale and purchase of the interests in the UK assets and Paiton resulted in a net cash payment of 106 million to International Power.
Gross proceeds of 168 million and a profit on disposal of 174 million were recorded on the partial disposal of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens.
Acquisition of other European wind farms During 2007 International Power also acquired 100% of the voting equity instruments or partners capital of the following businesses: In July 2007 a 16 MW operational wind farm, located at Delfzijl-Zuid in the Netherlands: In September 2007 the 28 MW Schkortleben operational wind farm, located in Germany, from e. n. o. energy: In December 2007 a 15 MW operational wind farm, located at Delfzijl-Zuid in the Netherlands: In December 2007 the 20 MW Karstaedt operational wind farm, located in Germany.
Total consideration for all acquisitions amounted to 50 million.
Consideration of 2 million remains unpaid at the year end.
d Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents acquired In addition to the net cash outflow to the Group of 52 million relating to the acquisition of Simply Energy and the net cash outflow of 551 million relating to the acquisition of Maestrale, net cash outflows of 46 million arose on the acquisition of the other European wind farms and 129 million relating to the purchase of an additional 5% equity interest in First Hydro and Saltend, and rights to additional returns from Paiton.
This results in a total net cash outflow to the Group of 778 million 2006: 650 million.
e Fair value hindsight adjustments acquisitions during 2006 The fair values of certain assets and liabilities associated with the purchase of the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms, predominantly located in France and Germany, which took place in November 2006 have been revised.
This follows the conclusion of an independent third party fair valuation exercise commissioned during 2007.
As a result of the finalisation of the valuation, the following changes have been made to the acquired assets and liabilities.
Property, plant and equipment of 20 million, intangible assets of 22 million and receivables of 4 million have been recognised.
The fair values of finance lease receivables have been reduced from 419 million to 395 million and loan and bond creditors have increased from 414 million to 427 million.
Corresponding deferred tax adjustments have also been applied to these changes in fair values.
International Power Annual Report 2007 147 32 Financial instruments a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 1,161 980 980 Available-for-sale: Other investments 13 13 26 26 Loans and receivables: Finance lease receivables 1,293 1,226 1,078 1,106 Other long-term receivables 22 22 29 29 Trade receivables 221 221 142 142 Other receivables and accrued income 424 424 157 157 At fair value through profit or loss: Assets held for trading 42 42 Derivative financial assets not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 236 236 164 164 Designated cash flow hedge relationships: Derivative financial assets designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 32 32 117 117 Total financial assets 3,402 3,335 2,735 2,763 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Trade payables 184 184 85 85 Other payables current 222 222 226 226 Accruals 268 268 206 206 Other payables non-current 30 30 40 40 Secured bank loans 4,608 4,608 3,440 3,439 Secured bonds 694 749 687 736 Preferred equity facility 151 151 152 152 Convertible bonds 255 259 237 247 Loans from minority interests 115 115 81 81 Provisions 63 63 43 43 At fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial liabilities not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 729 729 322 322 Designated cash flow hedge relationships: Derivative financial liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 105 105 108 108 Total financial liabilities 7,424 7,483 5,627 5,685 148 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 32 Financial instruments continued The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: i Other investments comprise minority shareholdings held in privately owned, unquoted companies as well as debt instruments where there is no active market available to value them.
Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, the fair value shown is recorded at cost.
The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows.
ii The fair value of finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been estimated by discounting estimated cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 4% to 10% have been applied.
iii Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income have been stated at their book values.
iv Fair values of derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification techniques.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities at future dates.
An electricity price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period.
Discount rates in the range of 7% to 10% have been applied.
The prices in the distant horizon period are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to both third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves and spot rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of the Groups foreign currency and equity conversion options have also been measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and through calculations using market rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
v The fair value of assets held for trading have been calculated using quoted market prices.
vi Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, other payables and accruals have been stated at their book values.
vii The fair values of all bank loans, bonds, convertible bonds, the preferred equity facility and loans from minority interests have been calculated using market prices where available or the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 4% to 15% have been applied.
viii Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Consequently the fair value has been presented as book value.
Discount rates in the range of 5% to 6% have been applied.
As explained in iv above, prices for valuing energy derivatives outside of an active market are derived from long-term assumptions.
Changes to these long-term assumptions could have a significant impact on the modelled price.
For example, reasonable increases in the assumed cost of construction could increase modelled long-term power prices in the order of 10%, while reasonable variations in the assumed long-term cost of oil could have an impact in the order of 30% on modelled long-term power prices.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence these variations in long-term price assumptions have a limited impact on our derivative valuations.
We have one long-term derivative contract for power, which was acquired with the Loy Yang B plant in Australia.
The contract is open until 2016.
Reasonable changes in assumed construction costs could affect the value of this derivative in the order of A$30 million.
Changes in the long-term cost of oil are less significant, since energy prices in Australia are currently not closely linked to world oil prices.
Refer to note 32 f i for sensitivity analysis.
Refer to note 39, Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, for further information on the valuation techniques used and the assumptions applied in determining the fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
International Power Annual Report 2007 149 b Derivative financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amount of financial instruments, which are carried at fair value in the balance sheet, that have been valued using a technique based on market observable inputs and those that been valued using non-market observable inputs: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Valuation Valuation Valuation Valuation technique technique technique technique market non-market market non-market observable observable observable observable inputs inputs inputs inputs Assets held for trading Carrying amount m 42 Percentage of total carrying amount 100% Derivative financial assets Carrying amount m 234 34 245 36 Percentage of total carrying amount 87% 13% 87% 13% Derivative financial liabilities Carrying amount m 681 153 291 139 Percentage of total carrying amount 82% 18% 68% 32% 447 119 4 103 In the merchant markets of Australia, the US and the UK, market observable inputs are usually defined as published forward curves.
Typically observable market data for forward power prices is available in Australia, the US and the UK for between two and three years.
For interest rate swaps all forward rates are deemed to be from observable markets.
Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Groups in-house modelling.
Non-market observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed illiquid.
A number of modelling techniques exist to generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward power sales is to look at the economics of a new-entrant power plant.
When a new-entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new-entrants cost and target return.
That is, power prices reflect the new-entrant cost level from this particular point.
As explained on pages 18 to 20 of the business and financial review, the Groups policy is to hedge various exposures.
Energy price risk: We use commodity contracts to fix the prices we achieve for the electrical output from our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power stations.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group the financial products and commodity contracts used for this purpose, which are classified as derivatives, under the heading Energy derivatives.
Interest rate risk: Principally we use pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps.
We also use options and forward rate agreements.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk: For structural and transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use foreign currency borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Other derivatives.
This category also encompasses options over equity.
The Group has convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc.
150 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 32 Financial instruments continued The carrying amount of these derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and whether these derivatives are designated in a formal hedging relationship is analysed as follows: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Cash flow hedges Energy derivatives 881 102 100 Interest rate swaps 24 24 15 8 32 105 117 108 Not designated in a qualifying hedge relationship Energy derivatives 200 653 134 262 Interest rate swaps 6 1 Other derivatives 30 76 30 59 236 729 164 322 268 834 281 430 Current 223 508 243 204 Non-current 45 326 38 226 268 834 281 430 The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities which have been designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition.
The following table shows the carrying amounts, net gains and losses, cash flows and other movements relating to the Groups derivative financial instruments and where the movements in the income statement are recorded.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives m m m m m m m m At 1 January 126 6 29 149 394 25 419 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in: revenue 387 387 132 132 cost of sales 45 45 68 68 interest 1 17 16 2 28 26 Other movements in the income statement 24 3 27 51 6 57 Movement in the hedging reserve 85 10 95 140 22 162 Cash flow 8 8 2 1 1 Acquisitions 40 4 44 Exchange differences 29 2 27 11 1 12 At 31 December 526 6 46 566 126 6 29 149 Other movements in the income statement comprise mark to market movements on proprietary trading activities, i. e. on non-asset backed trader, and the amortisation of derivatives acquired with a fair value other than zero.
Mark to market movements on asset backed hedges are included within specific IAS 39 mark to market movements refer to note 1. International Power Annual Report 2007 151 c Cash flow hedging reserve movements The cash flow hedging reserve balance at 31 December 2007 and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total derivatives swaps derivatives swaps m m m m m m Cash flows expected in: Less than 12 months 42 2 44 22 1 21 1-2 years 11 12 23 12 12 2-5 years 3 11 14 7 2 9 More than 5 years 3 3 66 Unrecognised losses gains at 31 December 56 28 84 336 The amounts shown in the preceding table are expected to affect profit or loss in the same period as the cash flows.
The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, including where gains and losses have been recognised in the income statement.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total derivatives swaps derivatives swaps m m m m m m At 1 January 336 103 15 118 Losses and gains recognised in the hedging reserve during the year 32 35 67 37 15 52 Losses and gains arising in previous years that reversed during the year 22 1 21 67 2 69 Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within the income statement during the year due to settlement of contracts.
Recognised in: Group revenue 95 95 4 4 Share of joint ventures and associates 22 Net finance costs 3 3 Cash settlement of derivatives during the year 95 1 94 415 Ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 1 1 1 1 Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within a non-financial item during the year 1 1 Exchange differences 6 3 3 314 At 31 December 56 28 84 336 152 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 32 Financial instruments continued d Hedge of a net investment An economic foreign currency exposure arises from net investments in Group entities whose functional currency differs from the parents.
An accounting exposure arises from differences between the functional currency of the net investments and the Groups presentation currency.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting, foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of a foreign operation would be taken to reserves, whilst those on the loan would be recognised in the income statement.
This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation.
When net investment hedging is applied, this mismatch is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge the net investments in certain foreign operations within its portfolio.
As the hedging instruments are foreign currency borrowings rather than derivatives, no fair values for these instruments are included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed on the balance sheet.
Gains and losses recognised in the translation reserve for hedges of net investments are shown in note 25 and as a separate line item in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
e Risk identification and risk management There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent with the Groups strategy and objectives.
Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
The Group owns power plants in various locations around the world including merchant markets in the US, Australia and Europe.
Plant ownership in the merchant markets exposes the Company to highly volatile and unpredictable commodity prices including those relating to power and gas and trading and risk management teams exist in each region to manage the exposure by trading a range of products including physical and financial forwards and futures.
A Global Commodities Risk Committee together with the regional risk management teams are responsible for ensuring an adequate risk framework is in place in each region.
Local Risk Committees operate in each region and they are responsible for ensuring that the risk framework is applied and that they manage their respective positions in compliance with these Board approved limits.
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management and development of the Groups business whilst managing its market risks and credit risks.
The Groups treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions.
Group treasury acts within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the balance sheet.
Note 30 provides details on equity and note 25 on loans and bonds.
Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of counterparties and maturities.
Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large transaction may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity.
Identification of total funding and phasing is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
Project development activities can, on occasions, require credit support in the normal course of business.
This is provided by established funding facilities or via additional bilateral facilities with related project banks.
At the individual business level we finance our projects with non-recourse debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse events at the project level, limiting our balance sheet exposure to a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
Credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties is managed within clearly defined limits, policies and procedures.
Financial counterparty risk is restricted to arrangements with relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with investment grade ratings.
All credit exposures are monitored daily by local regional management and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
f Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in: commodity prices in the merchant markets in which it operates: interest rates: and foreign currency exchange rates.
A significant number of the Groups projects operate without power purchase agreements and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel purchased.
In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK within our Europe region, North America, and Australia, operate on a merchant basis.
i Energy trading and market risk The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales of electricity and purchases of fuel by using derivatives to optimise the return achieved from these assets.
The Group uses commodity derivative financial instruments to convert floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to fixed prices.
This lessens the Groups vulnerability to reductions in electricity prices for the electricity it generates and to increases in fuel prices for the fuel it consumes in its power plants.
Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
The Groups trading operations are carried out subject to global and local policies and procedures.
A similar structure is in place in each region covering monetary, volumetric and term limits.
Metrics and limits applied to the trading books include Value-at-Risk VaR, stop loss, credit, fuel mismatch, term, volume, approved traders and approved products.
Position reports are produced on a regular basis for both the trading and plant books.
The Group accounts for certain derivative financial instruments relating to energy sales and fuel purchases as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is highly probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
The Groups coal purchase contracts are typically treated as own use because they are both entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the Groups electricity production requirements and they are not net settled.
Sensitivity analysis As stated earlier, when hedging the output of our generation assets it is our policy to both forward sell the power and forward buy the corresponding fuel at the same time in order to lock in the spread.
The spread is the difference between the cost of fuel to generate a unit of electricity and the price at which that unit of electricity is sold.
Spreads are usually expressed in terms of price per MWh.
When gas is used as fuel the difference is called spark spread and when coal is used as the fuel it is called dark spread.
From a management perspective, once the spread relating to the future output from a generation asset is forward contracted, the asset is considered hedged.
To the extent that future output has not been forward contracted in this manner it is considered unhedged.
Management review on an ongoing basis the extent to which gener ation output is unhedged.
International Power Annual Report 2007 153 However, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of changes in market prices as a result of entering into financial instruments including derivatives.
Specifically, this sensitivity shows the impact on the Groups results arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts which are entered into to hedge the future output of our generation assets following a change in forward market prices.
The table below shows the impact on equity and profits of a 20 percent increase in the forward curves for both electricity sales prices and gas purchase prices as if they had occurred on 31 December 2007.
This could be viewed as the opportunity cost of our forward contracting if prices had changed in this manner.
It should also be noted that if there were to be a 20 per cent decrease in forward prices, the results of the sensitivity analysis would produce an opposite impact on profits and equity to that shown.
The movement of forward price curves by 20 per cent is believed to be a reasonable approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year.
In some years markets will be less volatile and in other years they may be more volatile.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of these sensitivities: All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting: Commodity contracts that qualify for the own use treatment continue to do so, and thus this sensitivity has no impact for these contracts.
These typically include coal purchase contracts.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests.
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit for total equity profit for total equity the year the year 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m 20% increase in forward price curves for electricity 296 357 227 285 20% increase in forward price curves for gas 52 52 30 29 This sensitivity analysis highlights that because we hedge the spark spread, i. e. the sales price of electricity and the cost of gas, at the same time, there is little net impact on the fair value of our derivative contracts to changes in the forward price curves to sell electricity and to purchase gas.
However, for the dark spread, where the cost of coal is contracted in advance but is accounted for as own use, only the electricity sales contracts are exposed to fair value gains and losses arising from changes in the forward curves because these are considered commodity derivative financial instruments.
Therefore, from an accounting perspective, forward contracting of dark spread at coal plants potentially gives rise to more volatility in earnings.
However, to the extent that fair value gains and losses are recorded in any period within either the income statement or the hedging reserve when applying cash flow hedge accounting ultimately they will reverse by the time of delivery.
It should be noted that changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are entered into for economic hedging purposes refer to basis of preparation in note 1, are recorded in the middle column in the Groups income statement and therefore the fair value gains and losses have no impact on underlying business performance.
To the extent that our power plants are not already contracted, and spreads change as assumed above, it is likely that the future profitability of our coal plants would also improve, because they would contract into the higher dark spreads.
It also means that if plants are unavailable at the point in time at which power should be delivered under the contract, the mark to market position represents the anticipated net cost of purchasing power and selling fuel in the markets to fulfil the contractual obligations and in that instance the unrealised fair value gains and losses would become realised.
ii Interest rate risk Variability in interest payments can introduce volatility into project returns and corporate funding costs.
We mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements.
A limited number of our PPAs also have interest rate pass through mechanisms.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board.
The Groups policy is fix interest rates for up to 75% of its debt portfolio over the medium to long-term.
At individual project company level, it is usually a condition of the non-recourse debt funding that project companies maintain a certain minimum level of fixed rate debt, typically 70%.
This complements the Groups policy.
The overall level of the Groups fixed rate debt is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
154 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 32 Financial instruments continued A forward rate agreement is a contract in which one party pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate equal to a reference rate specified at the time of entering into the contract.
The payments are calculated over a notional amount over a certain period with the differential being settled at the termination date.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange pre-determined interest payments, based on a notional principal amount, over an agreed period of time.
At 31 December 2007, including the impact of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps, 3,587 million 62% 2006: 3,187 million and 71% of total debt had fixed interest rates.
In 2007 the weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt, taking into account the effect of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps on floating rate debt, was 7% 2006: 7%.
The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is considered highly probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
The effect of the Groups interest rate swaps effectively replaced 806 million 2006: 796 million of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, 759 million 2006: 869 million of floating rate US dollar borrowings, 297 million 2006: 300 million of floating rate sterling borrowings, 83 million 2006: 7 million of floating rate Czech koruna borrowings and 344 million 2006: 35 million of floating rate euro borrowings with fixed rate borrowings.
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months by reference to official market rates e. g. LIBOR.
When we use project finance in companies with power purchase agreements, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the power purchase agreement.
Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 100 basis point parallel increase in the interest rate yield curve as if it had occurred on 31 December.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The impact of this sensitivity has only been recorded for changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, which have their fair value gains and losses recorded within the financial statements: assets available-for-sale: and assets held for trading as the Group does not designate any other financial asset at fair value through profit or loss and these are the only significant financial instruments whose carrying amounts change as a result of changes in interest rates.
All other financial instruments are carried at amortised cost and hence no adjustment has been applied: No impact is recorded from changes in interest rates on employee benefits including pensions, provisions and other financial assets and liabilities: All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting: Fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December are reflected solely in the income statement.
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit for total equity profit for total equity the year the year 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m Increase in yield curve by 100 basis point parallel shift 8 49 3 33 A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on profitability of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on unhedged interest-bearing loans and bonds, i. e. those which are subject to a floating rate of interest, i. e. where there is no receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swap, and on cash balances on which variable rates of interest are earned.
The calculation is performed as follows.
The year end cash balance is deducted from the year end unhedged floating rate loans and bonds.
The net borrowing is multiplied by 1 percent.
In 2007 this equated to 8 million before tax 2006: 3 million.
iii Foreign currency risk International Power operates in 20 countries worldwide which exposes it to foreign currency exchange risks.
These relate to translation, transaction and economic risks.
Treasury policy is to hedge a reasonable proportion of the Groups translation exposures by borrowing in the same currency as the underlying investment.
Any residual translation exposure will result in fluctuating sterling profits and balance sheet asset and liability movements which are not related to underlying business performance.
In countries with historically weak currencies we aim to have PPA tariffs denominated in a major international currency.
This protects future returns from large and rapid devaluations.
Group translation exposure is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
For the purposes of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income statement results of the Groups foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Currency translation exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved, other than borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations.
In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same currency as the underlying investment.
The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way.
It is not our policy to hedge currency translation through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
Transaction exposure also arises on the remittance from overseas of dividends or surplus funds.
The Groups policy is to match transaction exposure where possible, and hedge remaining transactions as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments.
All external currency instruments used to manage transaction exposure are transacted by Group treasury or under the guidance of Group treasury.
Identification of potential transaction exposures is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast by local currency which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
International Power Annual Report 2007 155 As noted in 32b, to hedge our foreign exchange risks for transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use both nonderivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency borrowings, and derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
When we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposures to foreign currency risk, the Group may choose to account for these as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges if they meet the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
Sensitivity analysis The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currencies of International Power plc or of its subsidiaries.
It shows the impact on the Groups consolidated income statement by changing the year end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in sterling in subsidiaries with non-sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in the year end exchange rate is determined.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies in International Power plc or its subsidiaries with sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in year end exchange rate is determined.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The results of foreign exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans, that are treated as net investment hedges, are not recorded within the impact on the Group income statement, as these foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded within the translation reserve: The exposure on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into the sterling presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements are not included in the sensitivity analysis: No sensitivity has been applied to the results of joint ventures and associates.
The results are presented before tax and minority interests.
Impact on Impact on profit for profit for the year the year 2007 2006 m m 10% strengthening of sterling 11 20 10% weakening of sterling 15 26 g Credit risk We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according to the terms of the contract or instrument.
The Groups policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
Energy trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures in each of our key regions.
Counterparty exposure via customer power purchase agreements agreements to sell power is monitored and managed by the local asset team with assistance from Group treasury where appropriate.
The impact of an individual PPA default is minimised by the geographical diversity and large number of projects in which the Group is involved.
In addition, the non-recourse nature of the funding arrangements, which limits our exposure to our equity commitment in a project, also provides limited credit exposure to the Group.
For the majority of the Groups commodity trading arrangements we have master netting agreements which establish legally enforceable rights of set-off that reduce the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default.
Where possible, the Group will also enter into ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements to mitigate its credit exposure to financial instruments.
In the normal course of business there may be occasions when we have a significant concentration of credit risk with one counterparty in order to minimise settlement risk on major transactions.
This risk is normally only applicable for a short period of days and is always with an existing relationship bank with a strong investment grade rating.
156 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 32 Financial instruments continued Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated basis for financial counterparties, with the active and close involvement of the global risk manager.
Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to relationship banks and commercial paper with strong investment grade credit ratings.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, International Power selects counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type and duration of the instrument involved.
A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade.
For those energy market transactions with counterparties below investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried against the trading risk.
Exposures within this band are restricted and closely monitored within narrow limits.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by counterparty at 31 December 2007.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 980 Available-for-sale financial assets 13 26 2 3 Loans and receivables refer to note 32a 1,960 1,406 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss assets held for trading 42 3 derivative financial assets 236 164 Designated cash flow hedge relationships 3 derivative financial assets 32 117 Total financial assets 3,402 2,735 1 The majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment grade banks or financial institutions.
2 Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
3 The majority of trade receivables and derivative financial assets relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
As at 31 December 2007 there were no significant financial guarantees or third party obligations that increase the credit risk of the financial assets set out above.
International Power holds 79 million at 31 December 2007 31 December 2006: 171 million in collateral as security for the above financial assets.
Collateral held as security includes parent company guarantees of appropriate credit worthiness, letters of credit issued by investment grade banks and cash margining as set out in the following table: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Parent company guarantee 31 112 Letters of credit 1 Cash margining 48 58 79 171 During 2007 we have not needed to take possession of collateral available to us in order to settle any outstanding debts owed to us.
If the Group was to take possession of collateral or to call on other credit enhancements e. g. guarantees, and the assets held as security were not readily convertible into cash, we would regularly update our estimates of value and develop a realistic plan for monetisation.
We would defend rigorously our right to recoup any outstanding amounts from arrangements which ultimately do not fully settle a liability.
Although we have seen no direct evidence of changes to the credit risk of our counterparties, the current focus on financial liquidity in all international markets has introduced increased financial volatility.
We use market knowledge, changes in credit ratings and other techniques to identify significant changes to the financial profile of our counterparties.
h Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
The Groups treasury function is responsible for managing liquidity.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal conditions.
It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements for a rolling five year period.
The Group holds additional collateral from counterparties in the form of parent company guarantees and letters of credit of 180 million at 31 December 2007 31 December 2006: 73 million.
This collateral only becomes enforceable if existing exposures increase or additional trading with that counterparty is contracted.
International Power Annual Report 2007 157 i Borrowing facilities The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2007 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at that date amount to 586 million 2006: 667 million : 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m 1 US dollar Corporate revolving credit facility October 2010 427 425 425 327 322 322 2 US dollar ANP Funding 1 revolving credit facility May 2010 55 42 42 56 40 40 US dollar Tihama term facility December 2021 249 Australian dollar Canunda facility December 2014 37 Sterling Rugeley FGD construction facility July 2014 145 57 9 145 129 129 Sterling Rugeley working capital and credit facility July 2014 195 97 32 195 100 100 Czech koruna IPO revolving credit facility May 2012 138 24 24 24 24 24 3 Sterling Corporate letter of credit facilities 323 324 11 11 Subsidiary facilities in various currencies 156 54 54 110 41 41 Total 1,439 699 586 1,467 667 667 1 The drawn element of the US dollar Corporate revolving credit facility relates to letters of credit issued of 2 million 2006: 5 million.
2 The ANP Funding 1 revolving credit facility includes a US$50 million supported and US$60 million unsupported working capital credit facility with capacity to issue letters of credit.
At 31 December 2007, 4 million 2006: 4 million and 9 million 2006: 12 million of letters of credit had been drawn from each of these facilities respectively.
3 The Corporate letter of credit facilities can be utilised to issue letters of credit.
At 31 December 2007, 323 million of letters of credit had been drawn from these facilities 2006: 324 million and 173 million of cash and cash equivalents was used as collateral in relation to these facilities 2006: 212 million.
Uncommitted facilities available at 31 December 2007 were: 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Total Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn m m m m m m Facility Bank borrowing and overdraft facilities 50 50 35 35 Subsidiary facilities in various currencies 44 3 41 1129 94 3 91 46 2 44 Uncommitted facilities of 94 million 2006: 46 million include an undrawn and available cash element of 52 million 2006: 37 million.
Also included is 39 million 2006: 7 million of undrawn and available credit lines for the purposes of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in the normal course of business.
Bank borrowing facilities are normally reaffirmed by the banks annually although they can theoretically be withdrawn at any time.
158 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 32 Financial instruments continued The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the balance sheet date and a reconciliation from undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2007 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 25 823 691 2,984 3,567 8,065 55 2,187 5,823 Other financial liabilities 697 18 23 64 802 35 767 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 388 145 129 249 911 177 734 Interest rate swaps 7 12 5 1 25 1 24 Other derivatives 76 76 Total financial liabilities 1,915 866 3,141 3,881 9,803 21 2,400 7,424 31 December 2006 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 25 588 766 1,767 3,608 6,729 59 2,073 4,597 Other financial liabilities 530 19 30 61 640 40 600 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 134 61 92 202 489 127 362 Interest rate swaps 1 7 2 10 1 9 Other derivatives 59 59 Total financial liabilities 1,253 853 1,891 3,871 7,868 2,241 5,627 The net payments relating to interest rate swaps have been calculated based on the yield curves as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
Net payments under the interest rate swaps represent the projected net settlement amounts under the swaps.
The variable interest payments, of the loans to which the swaps relate, are included in the maturity analysis table in note 25 and included in loans and bonds above.
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted as at 31 December 2007.
Refer to note 34 for a breakdown of the Groups commitments and to note 35 for a summary of the Groups bonds and guarantees.
An assessment of the Groups current liquidity position is given in the Business and financial review section of the Annual Report on page 56.
The disclosure of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet has been made in line with managements view of the Groups operating cycle.
This reclassifies certain energy derivative cash flows shown above due after more than one year to being due within one year.
International Power Annual Report 2007 159 33 Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Within one year 13 9 In the second to fifth years inclusive 46 33 After five years 140 63 199 105 Offset by future minimum receipts under non-cancellable operating subleases.
3 5 Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment.
The Group as lessor International Powers business is the generation of electricity.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain operating leases.
At 31 December 2007 the Group had contracted to receive from offtakers the following minimum lease payments: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Within one year 9 9 In the second to fifth years inclusive 38 38 After five years 41 51 Total minimum lease payments 88 98 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Operating lease income earned during the year 9 10 34 Commitments Fuel purchase and transportation commitments At 31 December 2007, the Groups subsidiaries had contractual commitments to purchase and or transport coal and fuel oil.
Based on contract provisions, which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are currently estimated to aggregate to 494 million 2006: 385 million expiring within one year, 1,811 million 2006: 1,373 million expiring between one and five years and 1,063 million 2006: 880 million expiring after more than five years.
Capital commitments Capital commitments, contracted but not provided in 2007 amount to 90 million 2006: 174 million.
35 Contingent liabilities a Legal proceedings The Company is aware of the following matters, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group: i Claims and potential claims by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB, and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
ii In 1994 separate complaints were made by the National Association of Licensed Opencast Operators NALOO and the South Wales Small Miners Association SWSMA to the European Commission against the Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and HM Government.
The complaint alleges violations of EU competition law arising out of the coal purchasing arrangements entered into by the CEGB prior to 1 April 1990 and requests the Commission to find that the CEGBs practices violated EU law.
NALOO and SWSMA allege that such a finding would be grounds for a claim for damages in the English courts by their respective members.
The Commission ruled on the complaint in 1998 and did not make any findings against the Company.
Appeals against the Commissions findings were brought by NALOO and SWSMA.
The SWSMA appeal was initially ruled out of time, but on appeal a faction was allowed to proceed.
Progress with this claim will be influenced by the outcome of the NALOO appeal.
At first instance, the European Court ruled that the Commission is under an obligation to investigate the complaint by NALOO.
The Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and the Commission appealed against the ruling to the European Court of Justice which delivered a judgment on 2 October 2003 for the main part dismissing the appeal.
In its judgment, the court decided that the Commission has the power to investigate and in June 2007 the Commission gave a ruling in favour of the Company and PowerGen plc: SWSMA have appealed this ruling.
It is not practicable to estimate legal costs or probable damages, at this stage.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings.
160 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 35 Contingent liabilities continued b Taxation The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c Collateral, bonds and guarantees The Group has pledged financial assets with carrying amounts totalling 1,752 million as collateral as at 31 December 2007 31 December 2006: 1,441 million.
These comprise finance lease receivables refer to note 17, cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables.
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 475 million 31 December 2006: 442 million.
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 430 million 31 December 2006: 487 million.
d Joint ventures and associates i Legal proceedings A number of the Groups joint ventures and associates, particularly in the Middle East, are involved in major construction projects.
The Company is aware of a number of issues which may be the subject of disputes with the EPC contractors responsible for the construction projects.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any liabilities that may arise out of these disputes.
ii Bonds and guarantees The Groups joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees.
The Groups share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to 82 million.
These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate.
Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in note 35 c. 36 Related party transactions The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel can be found in note 6 and the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 83 to 95 of the Annual Report.
i Operations and maintenance contracts In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide power station operation and maintenance services to joint ventures and associates.
During the year the Group derived income of 55 million 2006: 50 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 5 million 2006: 8 million in relation to these contracts.
ii Retail supply contracts In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide power and gas to joint ventures and associates involved in retail supply.
During the year the Group derived income of 36 million 2006: 34 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is nil 2006: 3 million in relation to these contracts.
iii Transportation contracts In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracts in place, in relation to fuel transportation, with one of its jointly controlled entities.
During the year, the Group incurred costs of 8 million 2006: 8 million in relation to these contracts.
International Power Annual Report 2007 161 37 Subsidiaries The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless otherwise stated.
Country of Group incorporation and effective Name and nature of business registration Type of share shareholding North America ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Funding I, LLC financing company US Ordinary Shares 100% Coleto Creek Power LP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Hays Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Milford Power Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Europe International Power Opatovice A. S. power generation Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 100% First Hydro Company power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% First Hydro Finance plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Indian Queens Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% IPM Energy Trading Limited energy trading England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Rugeley Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% 1 Deeside Power Limited power generation Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 1 IP Maestrale Investments Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 100% 2 International Power Levanto Holdings BV investment holding company Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100% Turbogs Produtora Enrgetica S. A power generation Portugal Ordinary Shares 60% Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 64% Ibrica fide Enrgas SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 70% Middle East Al Kamil Power Company SAOG power generation Oman Ordinary Shares 65% Tihama Power Generation Company Limited power generation Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60% Australia Canunda Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% Gippsland Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 70% Hazelwood Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 92% Latrobe Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 70% Perth Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 49% Simply Energy retail supplier Australia Partners Capital 100% Synergen Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% 3 Pelican Point Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% Asia Thai National Power Company Limited power generation Thailand Ordinary Shares 100% Corporate IPM Eagle LLP investment holding company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% Normanglade 4 LLP financing company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% 4 IPR Insurance Company Limited insurance captive Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Jersey Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Finance Jersey II Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 162 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 37 Subsidiaries continued All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below.
All subsidiaries have a 31 December year end.
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices.
2 International Power Levanto Holdings BV owns indirectly, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, equity relating to the Nuon portfolio and bonds relating to the Breeze portfolio of the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
As required, we consolidate 100% of the results of the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
4 Held directly by International Power plc.
38 Joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Country of Group incorporation and Accounting effective Name and nature of business operation period end Type of share shareholding Joint ventures North America 1 EcoElctrica LP power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners Capital 35% Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners Capital 50% Oyster Creek Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners Capital 50% Europe Prazsk Teplrensk A. S. power generation Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49% Australia South East Australia Gas Pty Limited gas pipeline Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33% Associates Europe Derwent Cogeneration Limited power generation England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23% Opus Energy Limited retail supplier England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30% ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34% Carbopego Abastecimento fide Combustiveis, S. A. fuel supplies Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Pegop Energia Electrica, S. A. power station operations Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Tejo Energia Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A. S. power generation Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Middle East Hidd Power Company BSC c power generation and desalination Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Q Power QSC power generation and desalination Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Fujairah Asia Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Asia PT Paiton Energy Company power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 41% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36% 2 The Hub Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17% Uch Power Pvt Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
2 International Power continues to equity account for HUBCO, despite its shareholding being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert significant influence over the entity.
At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
International Power Annual Report 2007 163 39 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The Groups accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b below.
a Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants.
In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to be deferred in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
Income recognition from long-term PPAs When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electricity output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract.
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or operating lease.
This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside.
For finance leases it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between minimum lease payments and fees for service provision.
Evaluation of levels of control and influence The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements.
We achieve control or influence through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as investments available for sale.
These investments available for sale are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate.
This treatment is applied to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17% refer to note 38.
Where the Group has the power to control the operations of an entity, and it has less than 50% of the equity, we treat the entity as a subsidiary when required.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use the equity method of accounting.
Sometimes we may apply the equity method to a joint venture where we do not posses an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual arrangement establishes joint control.
Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: i disposals of interests in businesses: ii discontinued operations: iii impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement.
Taxation The income tax expense recorded in the income statement is dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, unless new tax rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
164 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 39 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment The original cost of greenfield developed power plant and other assets includes relevant borrowings and development costs: i Interest on borrowings relating to major capital projects with long periods of development is capitalised during construction and then amortised over the useful life of the asset: ii Project development costs including appropriate direct internal costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the contract will proceed to completion and income will be realised.
Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated useful lives.
The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a systematic and proportionate basis to the current carrying amount.
It is Group policy to depreciate gas plant over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value.
Coal plants, hydro plants and wind farms are considered on an individual basis.
Our depreciation lives are disclosed in the accounting polices note 1.
Fair values of energy derivatives The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts on its balance sheet at fair value unless they qualify for own use treatment.
Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the income statement unless the required hedge accounting criteria are met which allows the movement in fair value to be recorded within equity.
The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period.
Assumptions which underpin the long-term price curve relate to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of the forward price curve.
The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
As disclosed in note 32, at 31 December 2007 only 13% 2006: 13% of the carrying amount of derivative assets are based on non-market observable inputs and only 18% 2006: 32% of the carrying amount of derivative financial liabilities are based on non-market observable inputs.
Fair values on acquisition The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Hence determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement.
Fair values on our major acquisitions are disclosed in note 31 to these financial statements.
In determining the fair values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as part of the acquisitions of Simply Energy and Maestrale we have used the services of professional firms of valuers.
Impairment analysis Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets and the Groups power plant and other property, plant and equipment.
As a minimum, the recoverability of goodwill is tested on an annual basis.
This includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term.
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the current carrying amount of the asset with the present value of the expected future cash flows of the comparable cash generating unit and its fair value less costs to sell.
The reviews are generally based on pre-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
We benchmark the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis.
At each balance sheet date, consideration is also given as to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed.
As disclosed in note 8, the Group has impaired an intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement, acquired with Saltend in 2005, following a reduction in the gas forward price curve.
The charge of 47 million and associated tax credit of 14 million are classified as exceptional items.
In 2006 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Deeside power plant based on its estimated value in use.
Provisions Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions about such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs.
For example, the pensions liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, expected mortality and future increases in pension payments.
We review these assumptions regularly, and for pensions annually.
However, a change in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
In relation to pensions liabilities, the result of a sensitivity analysis relating to actuarial assumptions is included in note 7.
40 Events after the balance sheet date There are no events after the balance sheet date to report.
41 Events subsequent to the date of the auditors report On 19 March 2008, International Power acquired an additional 31% shareholding in Uch Power Pvt Limited for a total cash consideration of US$86 million 43 million.
The acquisition takes the Groups total holding in Uch Power Pvt Limited to 71%.
