54 Financial position and resources FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESOURCES Corporate costs Corporate costs at 52 million are 7 million higher than 2006.
This is mainly due to a provision made for the expected period of vacancy in the Group head office sublease following notification from the existing sub tenants that they are terminating their lease.
Interest Net interest expense at 308 million is 60 million higher than 2006.
This is mainly due to the impact of additional debt relating to Maestrale and a full year impact of Levanto which was acquired in November 2006.
Foreign exchange The impact of the strengthening of sterling on the results of our overseas operations, compared to 2006, is a reduction in EPS of 0.5 pence.
The majority of this impact relates to the translation of the profits of US dollar denominated operations.
Tax The Group tax charge has reduced by 9 million to 113 million 2006: 122 million.
As announced in our interim results, this includes the impact of reduced UK deferred tax balances following the lowering of the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.
Minority interests in our UK assets also benefited from this change in tax rate.
The Group also benefited from reductions in tax rates in the Czech Republic, Germany and Italy during 2007 and this has contributed to lowering the effective tax rate for the Group to 26%.
The effective tax rate excluding these impacts is 31% 2006: 30%.
The reduction in the tax rate in Italy also resulted in a tax credit of 49 million relating to Maestrale.
We have treated this tax credit as an exceptional item due to its magnitude and the proximity of the enactment of the change of rate to the date of the acquisition.
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Exceptional items before tax amount to 233 million 2006: 55 million.
This comprises the following items: profit on the sale of Malakoff of 115 million: profit on the partial disposal of certain UK subsidiaries to Mitsui of 174 million: provision against the investment in BioX of 9 million: Saltend Gas Supply Agreement GSA impairment of 47 million.
As a result of a fall in market gas prices during 2007, the remaining book value of the Saltend GSA was fully written off at the year end, resulting in a 47 million impairment charge.
The Saltend GSA has already delivered more value than was assumed at acquisition due to the high market gas prices experienced in 2005 and 2006.
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in the period amount to a charge before tax of 346 million 2006: gain of 44 million, 173 million of which relates to significant increases in forward prices in Australia and 135 million relates to increases in forward prices in the UK.
Tax on mark to market movements during the year was a credit of 96 million 2006: expense of 10 million.
Tax on the Saltend GSA impairment was a credit of 14 million.
No other tax arose on the exceptional items in the period 2006: charge of 15 million.
International Power Annual Report 2007 55 Cash flow A summary of the Groups cash flow is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Profit for the year 529 477 1 Depreciation, amortisation and other movements 515 322 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 145 113 Capital expenditure maintenance 71 128 KAPCO, Pakistan Purchase of intangible assets 48 Movement in working capital 4 15 Tax and net interest paid 413 313 Free cash flow 653 456 Receipt from TXU administrators exceptional 14 Receipt of compensation for breach of contract exceptional 5 Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt 2 14 Capital expenditure growth 160 142 Government grant received 1 Investments in net of returns from joint ventures, associates and investments 1 24 Acquisitions 841 842 Disposals 418 1 Dividends paid 160 67 Proceeds from share issue 13 15 Dividends paid to minority interests 35 54 Foreign exchange and other 262 270 Increase in net debt 376 334 Opening net debt 3,575 3,060 Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 711 181 Closing net debt 4,662 3,575 1 Depreciation, amortisation and other movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
In addition in 2007 they include the exceptional profit on the disposal of 25% of UK subsidiaries and the exceptional profit on disposal of Malakoff.
In the year ended 31 December 2006 they also included the exceptional profit on the TXU settlement and the exceptional profit on compensation for breach of contract.
56 Financial position and resources Liquidity Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 653 million, an increase of 43% compared to the previous year 2006: 456 million.
This increase was driven by full year contributions from Coleto Creek, Levanto, Tihama and Indian Queens, together with the strong profitability of the UK assets.
In addition, dividends from associates and joint ventures increased year-on-year by 32 million.
Maintenance capital expenditure was also 57 million lower than in 2006.
This was partially offset by an increase in net interest and tax payments of 100 million, mainly as a result of acquisitions.
Acquisitions of 841 million in 2007 include the Maestrale wind farm portfolio and the purchase from Mitsui of 5% of First Hydro and Saltend and the economic interest of 9.2% of Paiton.
Disposals include the proceeds of 249 million from the sale of Malakoff and the 168 million from the disposal of 25% of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens to Mitsui.
Dividends paid in 2007 include a 42 million interim dividend in October 2007.
An interim dividend was not paid in 2006.
Foreign exchange movements include the effect of retranslating opening debt balances denominated in foreign currency into sterling at the year end exchange rate.
The majority of this impact relates to retranslation of euro and Australian dollar denominated debt.
Summary balance sheet A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Goodwill and intangibles 901 425 Property, plant and equipment 5,721 4,435 Investments 1,292 1,290 Long-term receivables and others 1,530 1,270 9,444 7,420 Net current liabilities assets excluding net debt items 355 14 Non-current liabilities excluding net debt items 1,420 1,119 Net debt 4,662 3,575 Net assets 3,007 2,740 Gearing 155% 130% Debt capitalisation 61% 57% Net debt joint ventures associates 1,297 1,524 Goodwill and intangibles have increased by 476 million mainly due to the acquisitions of the Maestrale wind farms and the remaining 50% of Simply Energy.
The acquisition of Maestrale also increased property, plant and equipment in August by 1,018 million, with the remaining increase due to growth capital expenditure on projects, including the FGD at Rugeley, and the impact of currency retranslation.
Net debt has increased by 1,087 million in the year, and includes net debt in acquired subsidiaries of 711 million and a 206 million impact of currency retranslation.
As a result, debt capitalisation has increased to 61% at the end of the year 2006: 57%.
International Power Annual Report 2007 57 Net debt and capital structure Group net debt As at As at 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 980 Assets held for trading 42 Convertible bonds 255 237 Other bonds 694 687 Shuweihat S1, UAE Bank loans and preferred equity 4,874 3,673 Net debt 4,662 3,575 The above net debt of 4,662 million excludes the Groups share of joint ventures and associates net debt of 1,297 million 2006: 1,524 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group company.
In view of the significance of this amount, it has been disclosed separately.
The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and support adequately its existing operations and to finance the purchase of new assets.
These facilities comprise a revolving credit facility and two convertible bonds.
During 2007 the revolving credit facility was increased by US$210 million to a total of US$850 million 427 million and the maturity extended to October 2010.
The first convertible bond of US$252.5 million 127 million matures in August 2023 but with bond holders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023.
The second convertible bond of 230 million 169 million matures in July 2013.
The bondholders having the right to convert both bonds into our shares at anytime.
In addition, the Group has uncommitted bilateral credit lines from various banks at its disposal at the corporate level.
Further information on liquidity is included in the financial statements on pages 156 to 158.
Secured non-recourse finance The Groups financial strategy is to finance its assets by means of limited or non-recourse project financings at the project company or intermediate holding company level, wherever that is practical.
As part of this strategy, International Power Opatovice refinanced its existing term loan and replaced it with a new CZK 4 billion 110 million loan with a July 2012 maturity and Tihama was refinanced, increasing the level of non-recourse project finance to US$550 million 276 million and extending the tenor to 2025.
In addition the Group raised non-recourse facilities of 302 million 222 million to support the acquisition of Maestrale.
Corporate and Group debt On 31 December 2007 we had aggregated debt financing of 5,823 million denominated principally in US dollars, Australian dollars, sterling, euro, Czech koruna and Thai baht.
Of this amount only 255 million has recourse at corporate level and 5,302 million is secured by fixed or floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Aggregated debt financing of 539 million is due for repayment in 2008, with the majority of the remaining debt balance due after 2012.
During 2007 Standard & Poors, Fitch and Moodys reviewed the credit rating at corporate level.
Standard & Poors maintained the rating of BB but changed the outlook to stable from positive.
Fitch maintained its rating of BB with stable outlook and Moodys maintained its rating of B2 with stable outlook.
Short-term deposits Surplus funds are placed for short periods in investments that carry low credit risk and are readily realisable in major currencies.
Interest rate policy The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for a significant portion of the debt 62% as at 31 December 2007 using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements.
Turbogs interest costs are a pass through in the PPA tariff and therefore not an exposure to the Group.
Adjusting for this item would increase fixed rate debt to 67%.
The level of fixed interest rate debt will increase in 2008 as the hedging strategy for the Maestrale acquisition is implemented.
The Group is broadly neutral to changes in interest rates as variable rate debt is similar in size to variable rate cash and cash equivalents.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require specific approval of the Board.
The weighted average interest rate of aggregated debt financing was 7% in 2007.
Where project finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the customer offtake agreement.
58 Financial position and resources Accounting policies and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine A discussion follows on the policies we believe to whether they constitute a form of lease or a service be the most critical in considering the impact of contract.
Where the arrangements are determined to estimates and judgements on the Groups financial be or to contain a form of lease, an evaluation is then position and results of operations.
required of where the substantial risks and rewards of Critical accounting policies and estimates ownership reside, in order to determine the form of We prepare our consolidated financial statements in lease it represents.
For those arrangements determined to be finance leases, it is necessary to compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
As such, we calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital are required to make certain estimates, judgements and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to calculate the split upon the information available.
These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets between minimum lease payments and fees for service provision.
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenue and expenses The Group receives amounts from contractors in during the periods presented and the related respect of late commissioning and under performance disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Receipts which relate to compensation for lost revenue are treated as income On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates when the compensation is due and payable by the using historical experience, consultation with experts contractor.
Those receipts that relate to compensation and other methods considered reasonable in the for plants not achieving long-term performance levels particular circumstances to ensure full compliance specified in the original contracts are recorded as a with IFRSs and best practice.
Actual results may differ reduction in the cost of the assets.
significantly from our estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give Fair values of energy derivatives rise to the revision become known.
The Group has prepared its financial statements Our Group accounting policies are detailed in note 1 in accordance with the presentation requirements to the consolidated financial statements on pages of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and 105 to 111.
The table on page 60 identifies some Disclosure, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 of the areas where significant judgements are Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the required, normally due to the uncertainties involved accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial in the application of certain accounting policies.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its Income recognition derivative contracts on balance sheet at fair value Most of our income is derived from owning and unless they qualify for the own use treatment.
In merchant Changes in the value of derivative contracts in each markets the Group enters into various types of period are recorded in earnings unless strict hedge hedging or forward contracts for the buying and accounting criteria are met which allow the selling of commodities related to this activity: movement in fair value to be recorded within equity.
principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for our own power plants.
These contracts typically The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and as such are required to be fair valued.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge is effective, the currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
changes in value of the derivatives to be deferred in a hedging reserve within equity.
In order to achieve cash Generally the forward price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period.
forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both Assumptions which underpin the long-term price curve relate to the prices of commodities such as oil, subjective and objective measures of determination see also Fair values of energy derivatives.
the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would When our power plants sell their output under longbe economic for companies to enter the market and term power purchase agreements it is usual for the build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
The power plant owning company to receive payment assumptions used during the application of valuation known as a capacity payment for the provision of techniques will directly impact the shape of the electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker forward price curve.
The forward price curves are only requests electrical output.
In these situations, where estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent there is a long-term contract to sell electricity output uncertainty and subjectivity.
International Power Annual Report 2007 59 Recoverable amount of long-life assets Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise The original cost of greenfield developed power significant influence over the entitys operating and plants and other assets includes relevant borrowings financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
and development costs: Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest Interest on borrowings relating to major capital but less than 20% in an entity and has the power to projects with long periods of development is exert significant influence over its operations, we also capitalised during construction and then amortised treat that entity as an associate.
over the useful life of the asset.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby Project development costs including appropriate two or more parties undertake an economic activity direct internal costs are capitalised when it is that is subject to joint control.
Where we recognise our virtually certain that the project will proceed to interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity completion and income will be realised.
we use the equity method of accounting.
Sometimes Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write down we may apply the equity method to a joint venture where we do not possess an equal shareholding to the the value of the asset to its residual value over its other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a estimated useful life: contractual arrangement and the contractual Gas plant is depreciated over 30 years to a 10% arrangement establishes joint control.
residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to shorter period or a lower residual value.
market movements As discussed on page 106, in order to allow a full Wind farms, coal and hydro plants are considered on an individual basis.
understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and Management regularly considers whether there are specifically the Groups underlying business any indications of impairment to carrying values of performance, the Group presents its income the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill, statement such that it separately identifies the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment effect of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 e. g. the impact of current adverse market conditions.
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the The Directors consider that items of income or current carrying amount of the asset with the present expense which are material by virtue of their nature value of the expected future cash flows of the and amount should be disclosed separately if the respective cash-generating unit and its fair value less financial statements are to fairly present the financial costs to sell.
The calculations are generally based on position and financial performance of the Group.
risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that The Directors label these items collectively as require estimates of discount rates and future market exceptional items.
prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
Determining which transactions are to be considered Fair values on acquisition exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities However, circumstances that the Directors believe acquired in business combinations on to the Group would give rise to exceptional items for separate balance sheet at their fair value.
Power plant and disclosure would include: equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts disposals of interests in businesses: such as PPAs.
Hence determination of the fair values discontinued operations: of these long-life assets and contracts can require a impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate Consolidation policy amount of influence income statement line to which they relate.
In The determination of the level of influence the Group addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made has over a business is often a mix of contractually of all such items in one column on the face of the defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the income statement.
appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements.
At entities which are Those items that the Group separately present as specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in the not subsidiaries we achieve influence through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over income statement principally relate to derivative contracts into which the Group has entered in order significant actions.
We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
These investments available for sale are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
60 Financial position and resources Taxation Provisions The income tax expense recorded in the income Within the Group there are a number of long-term statement is dependent on the profit for the year provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions is and the tax rates at the balance sheet date, either estimated based on assumptions about items such as in place or which have been substantively enacted.
the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates The level of current and deferred tax recognised used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs.
is also dependent on subjective judgements as to For example, the pensions liability is based on the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax assumptions relating to discount rates used, future authorities in the various tax jurisdictions in which changes in salaries, expected mortality, and future International Power operates.
We regularly review the assumptions underlying provision calculations, and It is necessary to consider the extent to which Oyster Creek, pensions assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
Texas deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an However, a change in estimates could have a material assessment of the extent to which they are regarded impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of: Income recognition correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in place and the allocation of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors Fair values of energy derivatives forward price curve for commodities where there is no observable market Recoverable amount of long-life indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using assets projected cash flows, together with risk adjusted discount rates, or other more appropriate methods of valuation Fair values on acquisition useful economic life and residual value of certain assets fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business Consolidation policy amount extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the of influence operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which it holds an equity stake Items of income and expense which items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature require separate disclosure and amount which require separate disclosure.
The Directors consider exceptional items these items most appropriately disclosed as exceptional Taxation appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions of the tax authorities assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings Provisions appropriateness of assumptions to calculate reliable estimates
