178 Shareholder information Share dealing services SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AND INFORMATION Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service for both the purchase and sale of shares.
This is a postal service only.
For information on the Annual General Meeting AGM low-cost dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please contact Equiniti The 2008 AGM will be held on Tuesday 13 May 2008.
Further details will be set out in the Notice of the AGM to be sent out in April 2008. on 0871 384 2082.
Electronic voting Shareview dealing Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share dealing service, details of For the AGM you can register your vote electronically by logging on to the which can be found on their website www.
You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit numbers shown on your Proxy Form.
Alternatively, This arrangement is available at any time during market trading hours and if you have already registered for a shareview portfolio with Equiniti, then log on provides an easy and convenient facility to trade shares offering real time prices through a range of market makers and giving you control of when and for how to your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on company meetings.
much you wish to trade your shares.
Full terms and conditions for this service are Receive your Annual Report online available on the Shareview website.
You should note that for sales, the maximum If you have access to the Internet, in future you can receive your copy of the online trade size is 25,000 and for purchases 20,000.
To trade over the Annual Report by registering with www.
This is a service telephone, please call 08456 037 037. offered by Equiniti that also enables you to check your holdings in many UK Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
companies and helps you to organise your investments electronically.
Once you Other telephony providers costs may vary.
have registered for a portfolio, you can also use this service to change your address details online as well as register your vote for a companys General Share price Meeting safely, securely and privately.
Our latest share price information is available on our website at www.
This link will provide you with Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP International Powers latest share price, historical closing prices and volumes As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you can choose to reinvest and an interactive share price graph.
your money in the Companys shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money by way of buying shares In addition, you can now access the latest share price on your Blackberry, PDA or mobile phone at http: mobile.
If you would like to receive further information and an application form for the International Power DRIP, please contact Equiniti Contact details on 0871 384 2268.
General enquiries Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Please contact: Information on the International Power corporate ISA, which offers a tax-efficient Stephen Ramsay way of holding shares, can be obtained from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, Company Secretary who can be contacted on 0871 384 2244. International Power plc Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street Shareholder enquiries London EC4V 4DP If you have any queries on the following: Tel: 020 7320 8706 transfer of shares: Corporate investor & media enquiries change of name or address: Please contact: lost share certificates: Aarti Singhal Head of Communications lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of dividends International Power plc directly into a bank or building society account: Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street death of the registered holder of shares: London EC4V 4DP Tel: 020 7320 8600 receiving duplicate copies of this report: receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual Report in addition Website to the electronic version of the report: The International Power website www.
com contains the 2007 Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along with a wide range of please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write to them at Equiniti, other information on the Group.
The Annual Report and Summary Annual Report Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, quoting can be found at: www.
International Power and including your shareholder reference number found on your share certificate.
The website also hosts an Alert Service www.
com ipr siteservices alerts, where you can sign up for Additional information can be found on the Equiniti Limited website e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, results and presentations, and events.
Corporate social responsibility Further information on corporate social responsibility is available on our website www.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Interim Management Statement 8 May 2008 Annual General Meeting 13 May 2008 Ex-dividend date 21 May 2008 Dividend payment date 26 June 2008 Announcement of interim results for the period ended 30 June 2008 7 August 2008 Interim Management Statement 6 November 2008
