Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes A Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to P. These parent company financial statements have been Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an We have reported separately on the Group financial assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made statements of Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December by the directors in the preparation of the parent company 2007 and on the information in the Directors remuneration financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies report that is described as having been audited.
are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might information and explanations which we considered necessary state to the Companys members those matters we are in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give required to state to them in an auditors report and for no reasonable assurance that the parent company financial other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do statements are free from material misstatement, whether not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, Opinion the Directors remuneration report and the parent company In our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the parent company financial statements give a true and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Directors responsibility statement.
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report the parent company financial statements have been to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act requirements and International Standards on Auditing 1985: and UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent with the parent company financial statements.
company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company London, United Kingdom has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not 11 March 2008 received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
