Directors report General information and disclosures share is derived and the Company may by such resolution Group results and dividends determine that, as between the holders of the shares The Groups Consolidated income statement set out on resulting from such subdivision, one or more of such shares page 58, shows an increase of 358.94 per cent in Group shall have some preference on priority in respect of the profit before taxation to 69.3 million 2006: 15.1 million.
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets or The detailed results of the Group are given in the financial otherwise over the other or others: statements on pages 58 to 95 and further comments on divisional results are given in the Operational review on b consolidate and divide its capital or any part thereof into pages 12 to 21.
There have been no post balance sheet events.
shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: An interim dividend of 5.0p per 10p ordinary share was paid on c cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the 29 October 2007 and the directors recommend a final dividend resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by of 11.2p per 10p ordinary share, making a total distribution for any person the year ended 31 December 2007 of 16.2p per 10p ordinary share 2006: 15.4p.
Subject to approval of shareholders at and may by special resolution reduce its share capital, any the Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will capital redemption reserve fund, and any share premium be paid on 6 June 2008 to shareholders appearing on the account in any manner authorised by law.
register at the close of business on 25 April 2008.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 23 April 2008.
Issue of shares Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 requires that any The Companys dividend reinvestment plan will continue to be shares issued wholly for cash must first be offered to existing available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the plan shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings unless are set out in the shareholder information section on page 112. authorised to the contrary by a resolution of the shareholders.
A resolution giving such authority was passed at the AGM held Share capital on 14 May 2007.
The AGM authorities were used in 2007 only in The authorised share capital of the Company is 150,000,000 relation to the issue of shares pursuant to the executive share ordinary shares of 10p each 15,000,000.
During the year, option schemes as described above.
Resolution 12 set out in 1,012,175 shares were issued to participants in the executive the Notice of AGM will be proposed as an ordinary resolution in share option schemes on the exercise of options at prices of order to renew the directors powers to issue unissued shares.
The percentages It is accordingly proposed that the directors be granted general of shares issued non-pre-emptively in 2007 and in the period authority at any time prior to the next AGM of the Company to 2005 to 2007, calculated by reference to the Companys allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,524,856 closing issued share capital at 31 December 2007, were representing approximately 20.24 per cent of the Companys 0.81 per cent and 8.81 per cent respectively.
issued share capital as at the date of this report.
As a result of the foregoing allotments, the issued share Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 contains detailed provisions capital at the end of the year stood at 124,751,437 relating to the allotment of shares for cash.
A resolution giving 2006: 123,739,262 ordinary shares of 10p each the directors limited authority to allot shares other than by way 12,475,143.70 2006: 12,373,926.20. of a rights issue was passed at the AGM held on 14 May 2007.
Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as The issued share capital at the date of this report stands at a special resolution in order to renew the directors authority 124,751,437 ordinary shares of 10p each 12,475,143.70. to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights to existing shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount of 623,757.
Details of outstanding options over shares in the Company as By restricting such authority to an aggregate nominal value of at 31 December 2007 are set out in note 28 to the financial no more than 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital statements on page 88. as at the date of this report, the Company will comply with current guidelines issued by the Investment Committees of The Company may, by ordinary resolution, increase its share the Association of British Insurers and National Association capital by the creation of new shares.
Any capital raised by of Pension Funds Limited.
This authority will provide the the creation of new shares shall, unless otherwise provided by directors with the flexibility to take advantage of business the conditions of issue, be considered as part of the original opportunities as they arise.
Shareholders should note that the capital, and shall be subject to the same provisions as if it had Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority do not require been part of the original capital.
shareholders specific approval for each issue of shares for The Company may by ordinary resolution: cash on a non pre-emptive basis to the extent that under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the provisions of section a subdivide its existing shares or any of them into shares 89 are disapplied generally.
If given, this authority will expire of a smaller amount than is fixed by the Memorandum of on the date of the next AGM of the Company.
The Investment Association or by the resolution creating the shares: Committees also request that in any rolling three-year period provided that in the subdivision of an existing share the a company may not make non pre-emptive issues for cash or proportion between the amount paid and the amount equity securities exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys if any unpaid on each reduced share shall be the same issued share capital without prior consultation with them.
as it was in the case of the share from which the reduced Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 43 Directors report General information and disclosures continued The directors have no current plans to make use of the whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in trust authorities sought by Resolutions 12 and 13, other than the for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can be issue of shares pursuant to employee share schemes, but compelled to accept any shares or other securities which consider it appropriate to maintain the Companys flexibility in would give him any liability.
relation to future share issues, including any issues necessary to finance appropriate business opportunities, should they arise.
Votes at general meetings Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder is Repurchase of shares entitled to attend or appoint another person as his The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution representative to attend and to exercise all or any of his passed at the AGM held on 14 May 2007 to purchase up to rights to speak and vote at any general meeting of the 12,373,926 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices ranging Company.
A member may also appoint more than one between the nominal value for each share and 105 per cent of representative, provided that each representative is appointed the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date on held by that member.
A representative need not be a member which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned.
This authority expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM or 14 August 2008, whichever shall be the earlier.
Resolution 14 The right to appoint a representative does not apply to persons set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as a special whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and resolution in order to renew this authority.
Although the who have been nominated to receive communications from the directors have no immediate plans to do so, they believe it is Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to be able 2006 Nominated Persons.
Nominated Persons may have a to act if circumstances were to arise in which they considered right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who such purchases to be desirable.
This power will only be holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have exercised if and when, in the light of market conditions someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if Nominated prevailing at that time, the directors believe that such Persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, purchases would increase earnings per share and would they may have a right under such an agreement to give be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Any shares purchased under this authority will, unless the directors determine that they are to be held as treasury To be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shares, be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will shareholders or any proxy registered electronically in relation be reduced accordingly.
to any general meeting must be delivered to the Companys registrars not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in treasury, holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be held as treasury Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to shares may for the time being be held, upon a show of hands meet the Companys obligations under its employee share every shareholder or his representative who is present in schemes.
The authority sought by this resolution is intended to person at a general meeting shall have one vote and upon a apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury poll every member or his representative present in person shares in accordance with the Treasury Shares Regulations.
shall have one vote for every share held by him on each resolution put to the meeting.
Rights attaching to shares Generally If a person fails to give the Company any information required The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the by a notice served on him by the Company under section 793 Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public may be changed with the agreement of the shareholders.
companies the power to require information to be supplied in respect of a persons interests in the Companys shares then A shareholder whose name appears on the register of members the Company may, no sooner than 21 days later, and after may choose whether those shares are evidenced by share warning that person, serve a disenfranchisement notice upon certificates certificated form or held in electronic form the shareholder whether or not he was the person to whom uncertificated in CREST.
the section 793 notice was addressed registered as the holder of the share or shares in respect of which the section 793 If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the notice was given in the case of a disenfranchisement notice sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other addressed to a holder who is not the person to which the sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders the section 793 notice was addressed, having annexed thereto a whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, for copy of the section 793 notice identifying the person to whom such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any such notice was addressed and having warned such holder property to be divided and may determine how such division that unless the information required by the section 793 notice shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different is given within 14 days, the holder will not be entitled to classes of shareholders.
The liquidator may also transfer the receive notice of any general meeting or attend any such 44 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report General information and disclosures continued meeting of the Company and shall not be entitled to exercise, Transfer of shares either personally or by proxy, the votes attaching to such The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without share or shares in respect of which the disenfranchisement assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register any transfer notice has been given unless and until the information of any share which is not a fully paid share provided that this required by the section 793 notice has been provided.
discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings from taking place in an open and proper basis.
Proceedings at general meetings At any general meeting every resolution shall be decided in The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any the first instance by a show of hands unless, on or before certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly the declaration of the result of the show of hands, a poll is stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate of directed by the chairman of the meeting or demanded by the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the at least two shareholders present in person or their directors may reasonably require to show the right of the representatives or by one or more shareholders or their transferor to make the transfer.
representatives representing not less than 10 per cent of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through vote at the meeting or holding ordinary shares in the Company CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in conferring a right to vote at the meeting on which an aggregate accordance with the regulations governing the operation sum has been paid up equal to not less than 10 per cent of the of CREST.
total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
On a poll, every shareholder or his representative present at the meeting The directors may also suspend the registration of any transfers has one vote for every ordinary share of which they are the of certificated shares for up to 30 days per year, by closing registered shareholder.
the register of shareholders, but may not do so in relation to uncertificated shares without first obtaining consent Shareholders can elect directors in place of those retiring, elect from CREST.
auditors and fix their remuneration and declare dividends, but the amount of the dividends shall not exceed the amount Directorate and directors interests and indemnities recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay The following have been directors throughout the year: interim dividends on any class of shares on any dates and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as appear to the directors Lord Blackwell Group Chairman to be justified by the distributable profits of the Company.
A M Ringrose Chief Executive G P Balfour Senior Independent Director No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting L G Cullen shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be T C Jones eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less N F Keegan than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand the Company D A Trapnell has been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to J H Vyse vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person Non-executive director.
for election together with a notice executed by that person of his willingness to be elected.
Messrs S L Dance and B A Melizan were appointed to the Board on 10 January 2008.
Modification of rights If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class or Balfour, Cullen and Ringrose retire by rotation and, being any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or varied either: eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Messrs Dance and Melizan, who were appointed as additional members of the a with the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the Board, retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of issued shares of that class: or Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
b with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, separate general meeting of the holders of the shares ordinary shares in the Company at the year end are set out in of the class.
the Directors remuneration report on pages 53 to 55 of this Annual report and financial statements.
The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that There have been no changes in the directors beneficial class or by the terms upon which such shares are for the time interests in, and options to acquire, ordinary shares in the being held be deemed to be modified or varied by the creation Company between the year end and the date of this report.
or issue of further shares ranking pari passu therewith.
The directors do not have any interest in any other Group The Company may by ordinary resolution, convert any paid-up company.
No director has, or has had, a material interest, shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into paid-up shares directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under review of any denomination.
in any contract significant to the Companys business.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 45 Directors report General information and disclosures continued With the exception of Messrs Dance and Melizan, qualifying notice to the Company, cancel the facilities and declare all third party indemnities were put in place during 2006 in outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all respect of liabilities suffered or incurred by each director on or other amounts accrued under those facilities, to be after 24 March 2006.
Following their appointment to the Board immediately due and payable: and on 10 January 2008, qualifying third party indemnities were also put in place in respect of Messrs Dance and Melizan.
The a 25 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility Company also undertook to loan such funds to a director as it, in dated 4 June 2007 provided by The Governor and Company its reasonable discretion, considers appropriate for the director of the Bank of Scotland as original lender and facility to meet expenditure incurred by him in defending any criminal agent under which if any person or group of persons acting or civil proceeding or in connection with any application under together pursuant to an agreement or understanding sections 144 3 or 4 or section 727 of the Companies Act 1985 whether formal or informal which did not have control on terms which require repayment by the director of amounts so at the date of the facility agreement gain control of the advanced upon conviction or final judgement being given against Company the facility agent must, if the majority lenders him.
These qualifying third party indemnities remain in force at so require, by giving not less than five business days prior the date of this report.
The deeds of indemnity are available for notice to the Company, cancel the facilities and declare all inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under those facilities, to be On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension immediately due and payable.
Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of Charitable and political donations Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the Charitable donations made by the Company during the Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme year amounted to 35,000 2006: 36,000.
Details of the indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken out beneficiaries of donations are given on page 37 of the by the Trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities cannot charitable giving section of the Corporate responsibility be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out by the section of this report.
No political donations were made Trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity remains in during the period.
force at the date of this report and is available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Creditor payment policy It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with Substantial shareholdings its suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due As at 11 March 2008 the Company has been notified of the when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have following interests in the voting rights over shares: been provided in accordance with the relevant contractual 9,068,234 7.27% Prudential plc conditions.
Trade creditors for the Group calculated in 8,716,219 6.99% Newton Investment Management Ltd accordance with the Companies Act 1985 at 31 December 8,206,700 6.58% Aberforth Partners LLP 2007 were 75 days 2006: 78 days.
The Companys trade 7,709,839 6.18% Lloyds TSB Group Plc creditors at 31 December 2007, calculated in accordance with 6,504,700 5.21% Old Mutual Asset Managers the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, were 10 days 6,313,140 5.06% Legal & General Group Plc 2006: 3 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Company in the year by There are no other notifiable interests, so far as the directors its suppliers and the amounts due, at the year end, to trade are aware, in the issued share capital of the Company.
creditors falling due for payment within one year.
Dividend waivers Auditors Halifax EES Trustees International Limited, the trustee of the Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Interserve Employee Benefit Trust, currently holds 21,080 Companys auditors and to authorise the directors to Company shares through Greenwood Nominees Limited over determine their remuneration will be proposed at the which a dividend waiver is currently in operation.
Significant agreements Statement on information to auditors The following significant agreements contain provisions Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this entitling the counterparties to exercise termination rights in report confirms that: the event of a change of control in the Company: a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information a 225 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and dated 2 May 2006 arranged by HSBC Bank plc HSBC b he has made such enquiries of his fellow directors and of and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc with HSBC as facility the Companys auditors and has taken such other steps as agent, under which if any person or group of persons were required by his duty as a director of the Company acting together pursuant to an agreement or understanding to exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make whether formal or informal which did not have control himself aware of any relevant audit information and to at the date of the facility agreement gain control of the establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Company the facility agent must, if the majority lenders that information.
so require, by giving not less than five business days prior 46 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report General information and disclosures continued Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 14 May 2008, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders and which is also available on our website at www.
Interserve House Approved by the Board of Ruscombe Park directors and signed on Twyford behalf of the Board Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU T Bradbury Company Secretary 11 March 2008 Cautionary statement The Directors report the Report set out above has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Report.
The directors liability for the Report is limited, as provided in the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forward-looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual report and financial statements shall be governed by English Law.
Nothing in this Annual report and financial statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
