Notes to the Financial Statements a Accounting policies Company The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements except as noted below.
In these financial statements the new standard FRS 20: Share-based payments and UITF 41 Scope of FRS 20 have been adopted for the first time.
The accounting policy under this new standard is set out below together with an indication of the effect of its adoption.
The corresponding amounts in these financial statements have been restated in accordance with the new policy.
The effect of adopting this policy is to increase the 2006 investment in subsidiaries by 2.4m with a corresponding increase in the profit and loss account of 2.4m.
As such total net assets and total shareholders funds at 31 December 2006 have also increased by 2.4m.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the historical accounting rules.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated accounts which it has prepared.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company Following the adoption of the presentation requirements of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders funds are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 85 Notes to the Financial Statements a Accounting policies Company continued Intercompany financial guarantees When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
In order to encourage share ownership, a share option scheme for senior management was established in March 1997.
This option programme was discontinued in 2006 and was replaced by a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
As permitted by FRS 20, the Company has applied the requirements of this standard to all share-based payment awards granted after 7 November 2002.
The fair value of options granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the corresponding increase in equity.
However, the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and as such the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiarys financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
This method, in calculating the fair value, takes into account various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan are also measured using the Black-Scholes method and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
See note 25 in the Group financial statements for further information on the share schemes.
b Employees The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
c Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2007 2006 m m Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 16.1 12.6 Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 9.1 7.2 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 25.2 19.8 The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2007 is nil 2006: nil.
86 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 d Investment in subsidiary undertakings Restated note a 2007 2006 m m Cost and net book value At 1 January, as restated 277.4 274.3 Additions 0.5 0.7 Additions due to share-based payments 3.0 2.4 At 31 December 280.9 277.4 During the year, the Company subscribed 0.5m into the share capital of its segregated account in Leeward Insurance Company Limited, registered in Bermuda.
This is the insurance captive for the Group.
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned subsidiaries and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of 3.0m 2006: 2.4m.
Please see note 30 in the Group financial statements for details of the principal operating subsidiaries.
The other two direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2007, were Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital of the companies and both companies are wholly-owned.
In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
e Debtors due after more than one year 2007 2006 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 12.9 The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing currency and which are repayable any time after 12 months from the balance sheet date.
f Debtors due within one year 2007 2006 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 0.4 g Creditors due within one year 2007 2006 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1.8 1.4 Accruals and deferred income 0.1 0.2 1.9 1.6 h Creditors due after more than one year 2007 2006 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 9.2 The amounts owed to Group undertakings represent long-term loans which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing currency and which are repayable any time after 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 87 Notes to the Financial Statements i Shareholders funds equity Restated Restated note a note a Share Share Profit capital premium and loss Total m m m m At 1 January 2006 1.6 238.2 24.1 263.9 Profit for the financial year 38.0 38.0 Dividends 19.8 19.8 Credit in relation to share-based payments 2.4 2.4 Shares issued 4.2 4.2 At 31 December 2006, as restated 1.6 242.4 44.7 288.7 Profit for the financial year 8.9 8.9 Dividends 25.2 25.2 Credit in relation to share-based payments 3.0 3.0 Shares issued 4.9 4.9 At 31 December 2007 1.6 247.3 31.4 280.3 Details of share capital are set out in note 18 and details of share options are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of 25.2m 2006: 19.8m was 8.9m 2006: 38.0m which was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
j Related party transactions Under FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing transactions with other Group companies.
k Contingent liabilities The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement.
This is a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the pool which was 29.2m at 31 December 2007 2006: 20.9m.
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of subsidiary undertakings.
88 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
