SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrars Tips on protecting your shareholding For all enquiries about the registration of your shares and changes of Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your name and address, please contact: shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from the Registrars which shows your Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA shareholder reference number in a safe place, or destroy Telephone 44 0 870 600 3963 correspondence by shredding.
Facsimile 44 0 870 600 3980 If you change address inform the Registrars.
If you receive a letter www.
co. uk from the Registrars regarding a change of address and have not recently moved, please contact them immediately.
You may be a Stock Exchange listing victim of identity theft.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Electronic communications Shareholders can also view up to date information about their Financial calendar shareholding and register to receive future electronic communications Financial year end 2006 07 31 March 2007 from the Company by visiting the shareholders website at Results 2006 07 announced 24 May 2007 www.
co. uk shareholder reference number, shown on Annual General Meeting 2 August 2007 share certificates and tax vouchers, will be required.
First quarter results 2007 08 2 August 2007 Interim results 2007 08 November 2007 Shareholders will be asked at the Annual General Meeting to allow the Third quarter results 2007 08 February 2008 Company to send or supply documents to shareholders by making them available on our website.
Further details can be found in the Final dates and any changes will be announced and notified Chairmans explanatory letter enclosed with this Annual report.
Invensys nominee service The Companys quarterly results announcements are published The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders can through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
hold their shares electronically rather than in certificate form.
Through All announcements are made available on the Groups website.
the service, shareholders can also take advantage of streamlined dealing arrangements.
Details of the service are contained in the Invensys Taxation Nominee Service brochure which is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 of an Invensys ordinary share, adjusted for rights and American Depositary Receipts ADRs capitalisation issues and the Share consolidation, was 75.3p.
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which the Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax position should seek Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary.
Each ADR specific advice from their financial advisers.
now represents one 1 ordinary share of the Company following the Companys Share consolidation in August 2006.
The ADRs trade on the Dividend Over-The-Counter OTC market under the ticker symbol IVNSY.
For No dividend was paid during the financial year 2006 07 and the Board enquiries, beneficial ADR holders may contact the Deutsche Bank Trust has not recommended the payment of any final dividend.
The Company Americas Broker Service Desk on 44 0 20 7547 6500 or Company currently has a significant deficit on distributable reserves 1 212 250 9100.
Registered ADR holders may contact the dedicated and is subject to restrictions on payment of dividends under the terms Invensys plc ADR shareholder services line on 1 888 778 1318 toll of the High Yield Bonds.
Accordingly, the Company is currently unable free for US residents only.
Further information is also available at to pay a dividend.
Forward-looking statements ShareGift This report includes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Shareholders with very small holdings of shares who do not wish to the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995, which are based sell because the sale commission applied would be disproportionate to on market projections, forecasts and expectations.
Forward-looking the sale price may consider donating them to charity.
The Orr statements are by their nature subject to uncertainties and external Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme.
factors that may affect the actual outcomes compared with those ShareGift can be contacted at 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN anticipated.
Donation forms are also available via Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Registered office Invensys plc, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BF Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly Telephone 44 0 20 7834 3848 available and as a result some shareholders may receive unsolicited Facsimile 44 0 20 7834 3879 mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of such mail you can contact: Registered in England and Wales number 166023 The Mailing Preference Service MPS, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS.
Tel: 44 0 845 703 4599 or register online at For the latest investor information and news visit our website at www.
This service is operated by an independent www.
com organisation and is free to members of the public.
Identity theft: protecting your investment Criminals may steal your personal information putting your shareholding at risk.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 131 Invensys plc Warning to Shareholders Over the last year many companies have become aware that their shareholders have The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations which imply a connection to the company concerned.
These are typically from should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, preferably, be contacted by completing an They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml or, Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234. investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Inform the Companys Registrars on 0870 600 3963.
They are not able to Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass them on shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
to the Company and liaise with the FSA.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in company mailings.
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they give you, e. g. telephone number, address etc.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website You can check at www.
132 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Minh Tran was Pernille Jensen was photographed by photographed by Kevin Miyazaki Nicky Bonne Chicago, US Kolding, Denmark Manuel fide Dompablo Ashraf Khan was was photographed by photographed by Ana finance Dave Young Madrid, Spain Chippenham, UK Jennifer Iglio was Sandeep Mehra was photographed by photographed by Brent Humphreys Stuart Freedman Houston, US Hyderabad, India Board and management photography by Richard Davies UK and Jeffery Salter US Designed and produced by Invensys plc Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BF
