PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting i provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets that in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The policies have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent are consistent with the previous year.
that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made Foreign currencies where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the replacement assets are sold: balance sheet date.
ii provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and All exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account for joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, the year.
dividends have been accrued as receivable: and Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits iii deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit or taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined can be deducted.
benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is also laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return on Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year.
The net surplus or Share-based payment deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share sheet within the pension asset or liability.
For equity-settled share options, the services received from For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using the Blackpayable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the Scholes option pricing model and recognised in the profit and loss year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or account together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, prepayments in the balance sheet.
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, Investments in subsidiary undertakings other than market conditions, are not taken into account when Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less estimating the fair value.
Market conditions are those conditions that provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value are linked to the share price of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated Borrowing costs based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period based on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is recognised Debt instruments for awards that do not ultimately vest, with the exception of awards Borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of where vesting is conditional upon a market condition: these are issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised over the treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition life of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
Taxation For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised in the originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future, at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the with the following exceptions: profit and loss account.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 117
