ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statement of compliance IAS 39 Amendments Financial Instruments: Recognition and The Groups Consolidated financial statements have been prepared Measurement in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs IFRS 4 Amendment Financial Guarantee Contracts as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease Basis of preparation IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 39 Financial The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the financial Adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had any statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Consolidated material effect on the financial statements of the Group.
financial statements are presented in sterling and all amounts are rounded to the nearest million m unless otherwise indicated.
The following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations that became effective during the year are currently not applicable to the The Groups date of transition to IFRSs was 1 April 2004.
Groups operations: Basis of consolidation IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Assets and The Consolidated financial statements comprise Invensys plc and subsequent amendment to IFRS 6 and IFRS 1 its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results of its associates for the financial year to 31 March each year.
The financial IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds as the Parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are Exceptional items consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
Exceptional items are material items of income and expense that should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the Groups financial performance and in making projections of future equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the results.
Such items may be operating or non-operating in nature.
Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a Exceptional items are presented separately on the face of the income joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate statement and analysed in the Notes to the financial statements.
is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in Foreign currencies value.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised of Invensys plc is sterling.
directly in the associates equity, the Group recognises its share of any The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and changes and discloses this, when applicable in the reconciliation of associates are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional movements in equity.
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in The financial statements of the associate are used by the Group to which an entity operates.
The financial statements of associates are Foreign currency transactions prepared as of the same date as the Groups financial statements and Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates use consistent accounting policies.
ruling at the dates of the transactions.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly unless: attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, hedging instrument in a cash flow hedging relationship that irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the qualifies for hedge accounting: or cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
of a net investment in a foreign operation: In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied by the Group on transition to IFRSs, business combinations prior to IFRS Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a transition have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3, Business foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date Combinations.
Changes in accounting policies Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair value was previous financial year except as follows: determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, except for exchange differences The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC value are recognised directly in equity.
IAS 21 Amendment The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates: Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 68 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Financial statements of foreign operations charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associates are on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is included year.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, within other finance charges IAS 19.
This also includes a charge are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at the representing the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme being one directly in a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of transferred to the Consolidated income statement, as part of the profit recognised income and expense in the year, together with differences or loss on sale.
The net surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet within the Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS pension asset or liability.
are presented in equity but not as a separate component.
Cumulative For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the income translation differences on foreign operations were deemed to be zero statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in at that date.
When the foreign operation is sold, these cumulative the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and exchange differences are not recognised in the income statement.
contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or Revenue prepayments in the balance sheet.
Composition of revenue Goodwill Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services supplied On a business combination, the net fair value of the identifiable assets, by the Group excluding intra-group transactions, sales by associated liabilities and contingent liabilities is assessed and adjustments are undertakings and sales taxes.
Revenue relating to construction made to bring the accounting policies of businesses acquired into contracts, including long-term service provision contracts, represents alignment with those of the Group.
The excess of the price paid over the value of work performed during the year determined by reference the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired to the stage of completion of the contract.
is included in intangible assets as goodwill.
Any costs of integrating the Recognition of revenue and profits acquired business are taken to the income statement.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being reliably measured.
The specific methods used to recognise the tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not Sale of goods included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried at Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups policy on testing assets for impairment is set out under Impairment of non-financial Construction contracts and rendering of services assets below.
Revenue from construction contracts, including long-term service provision contracts, is recognised by reference to the stage of Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
normally determined by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
would not be representative of the stage of completion.
If the nature Other intangible assets of a particular contract means that costs incurred do not accurately Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated reflect the progress of contract activity, an alternative approach is amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of used such as the achievement of predetermined contract milestones.
intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any is made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual value of assets is recognised when the service is complete.
over their estimated useful lives using the following annual rates: Development costs 10 to 25% Research and development Computer software costs 10 to 25% All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development Patents, trademarks and licenses Shorter of period of the expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria agreement or 15 years for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other intangible assets.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments where Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits applicable are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible assets other For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement than goodwill are considered to have indefinite useful lives.
benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the expenditure projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is also Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 69 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able to demonstrate, The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that among other things, the technical feasibility of completing the reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale.
Leased assets Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project are Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the income property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present statement as incurred.
These costs are incurred to determine the value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets are product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the alternatives and subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the related risks, assess the technical feasibility of concepts, make the assets useful life.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance final selection from the possible alternatives and prepare the high charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within level design and project planning.
The costs incurred in the following liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance development stage for substantially new or improved products are charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and considered for recognition as rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance an asset when they meet those criteria.
These costs are generally charges are charged directly against income.
incurred in developing the detailed product design, software Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments, configuration and software interfaces: the coding of software, building including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under of prototypes and integration of the software with hardware: and operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term on testing and releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental improvements The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is in existing products does not qualify for recognition as an intangible based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and an asset.
assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent In general the costs of developing software products that are sold on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are right to use the asset.
not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated with A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the the functionality of these products mean that technical feasibility is following applies: achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial tests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are considered to meet the IAS 38 a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or criteria for recognition.
extension of the arrangement: b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised of the renewal or extension was initially included in the separately from the goodwill arising on the business combination if lease term: the assets fair value can be measured reliably, regardless of whether c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is the asset had been recognised previously by the acquiree.
dependant on a specified asset: or Property, plant and equipment d there is a substantial change to the asset.
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or price and directly attributable costs.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their Inventories residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable at the following rates applied to original cost: value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items.
Cost Freehold land Nil comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a first-in, first-out Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of labour and manufacturing Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease overheads based on normal operating capacity, to reflect the costs Plant and equipment 7 to 35% incurred in bringing the product to its present location and condition.
Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and Cash and cash equivalents adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, call deposits and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months Impairment of non-financial assets or less.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that any non-financial asset excluding goodwill may be Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset impaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or not against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off exist there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill was also tested for and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
If there is an indication Taxation of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount and an the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs the balance sheet date.
to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of those from other assets or groups of assets the recoverable amount of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
70 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is carried all taxable temporary differences: out according to the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges fall into three categories: except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset a Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the fair or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, value of a recognised asset or liability: at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit b Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash flows nor taxable profit or loss: and that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary and differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary c Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations due to foreign currency exposure.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available Fair value hedges against which the deductible temporary differences, and the When the hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any resulting carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on utilised, except: the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset recognised in the income statement.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, Cash flow and net investment hedges at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is nor taxable profit or loss: and determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Any in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint statement.
When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item results ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow which the temporary differences can be utilised.
hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer hedged item affects the income statement on disposal of the hedged probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all investment in the case of a net investment hedge.
or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment in deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the borrowings and are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient that is determined to be an effective hedge, in accordance with IAS 39, taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred is recognised in equity.
income tax asset to be utilised.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and the income statement.
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and postIncome tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except themselves and are reflected in the Group financial statements within to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in the amounts reported for those schemes.
which case it is recognised in equity.
Other financial assets Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally Other financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax subsequently measured as follows: a at fair value for  and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and sale financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in equity except the same taxation authority.
for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from these assets Financial instruments which are recognised in the income statement: and b at amortised Derivative financial instruments cost, using the effective interest rate method, for held-to-maturity The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and financial assets.
interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations in interest Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are accounted for as provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are discounted hedges when designated as hedges at the inception of the contract.
when the time value of money is considered material.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
Debt instruments All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in the consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps are calculated by reference to current forward After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 71 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED rate method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or maturity amount.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset Financial guarantee contracts or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the Assets carried at amortised cost holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, are fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has modified terms of a debt instrument.
In a very limited number of been incurred.
The loss is measured as the difference between the cases, the Group has issued such contracts to guarantee certain assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash borrowings by third parties.
flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value and i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying subsequently measured at the higher of a the estimated outflow of amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account resources required to meet any present obligation under the contract and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and b the amount initially recognised less, when The assessment considers assets whether objective evidence of appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually IAS 18, Revenue.
significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective Derecognition of financial instruments evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial A financial instrument is derecognised when the Group no longer asset, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument.
credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually Financial assets assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a investments: or as available for sale financial assets, as appropriate.
subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has they are assessed as uncollectible.
transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from Available-for-sale financial investments an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments continuing involvement takes the form of a written and or purchased are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair option including a cash-settled option or similar provision on the value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event transferred asset, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income the amount of the transferred asset that the Group may repurchase, statement.
except that in the case of a written put option including a Share-based payment cash-settled option or similar provision on an asset measured at fair The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share value, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is limited to schemes.
For equity-settled share options, the services received from the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share exercise price.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation Financial liabilities model and recognised in the Consolidated income statement, together A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight-line liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of 72 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market Critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
In applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to Market conditions are those conditions that are linked to the share make judgments and assumptions concerning the future in a number price of the Company.
Actual results may be different from those estimated using these judgments and assumptions.
The key sources of estimation For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated uncertainty and critical accounting judgments that have a significant based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period based and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, with the exception of awards Impairment of goodwill where vesting is conditional upon a market condition: these are The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to are measured at fair value and recognised in the Consolidated income choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value statement as an expense over the vesting period with recognition of a of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2007 corresponding liability.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at was 206 million 2006: 222 million.
Further details are given in each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair Note 13. value recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Pension and post-retirement benefits In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post employment Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied by the medical benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial Group on transition to IFRSs, the requirements of IFRS 2, Share-based valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected Payment, have not been applied to equity instruments granted on or rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and before 7 November 2002 and those vesting before 1 January 2005. future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, New standards and interpretations not applied such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
The net pension The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and liability at 31 March 2007 is 522 million 2006: 489 million.
Further interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial details are given in Note 25. statements: Development costs Effective date financial periods Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the Groups International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs beginning on or after accounting policy for other intangible assets.
Determining the amounts IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 to be capitalised requires management to make assumptions and IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of estimates regarding the expected future cash generation of the assets Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 and the expected period of benefits.
At 31 March 2007, the best IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 estimate of the carrying amount of capitalised development costs was IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 1 January 2009 76 million 2006: 74 million.
Provisions and contingent liabilities International Financial Reporting Interpretations Effective date financial periods Committee IFRIC beginning on or after The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of liabilities IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 including environmental claims and onerous lease rentals.
The amounts IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 recognised for provisions represent the best estimate of the probable IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that will be 2006 required to settle these liabilities.
No provisions are recognised for IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will result in an outflow of resources embodying economic The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards benefits or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group financial with sufficient reliability.
statements in the period of initial application.
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed as a Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires judgments to information about its financial instruments, their significance and the be made on the existence of a present obligation and the probability nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically the of future events.
When a provision is required, the amount recognised Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments is determined using judgments and assumptions, based on current and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on knowledge, to estimate the amount and timing of future cash outflows reported income or net assets.
At 31 March 2007, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring provisions was 166 million 2006: 195 million.
Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will be required to adopt the Further details are given in Note 24.
Details of the Groups contingent management approach to reporting on the financial performance liabilities are set out in Note 30. of its operating segments, so that the segment information to be reported would generally be what management uses internally for evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments.
The Group is still evaluating the effect of this standard, but considers that its adoption will not have a significant impact on the segment information reported.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 73
