O perational Excellence We want AMEC to be a successful, sustainable company for the long term: one that our employees are proud to work for: that our customers and suppliers want to partner with: that local communities welcome: that shareholders want to invest in... What is Operational Excellence?
Operational Excellence is about tackling continuous improvement in a consistent way and having consistent practices and procedures to work from.
Across AMEC, we want to have world class operating systems and procedures.
We want to work for the right customers and with the right suppliers as the supplier of choice to our chosen customers, and the customer of choice to our chosen suppliers.
We want to employ and retain the best people people that want to develop their skills for the future.
We want our culture to be one of delivery and performance.
The Operational Excellence programme will have an effect right across AMEC over the next couple of years and will become a way of life for AMEC employees thereafter.
Operational Excellence will be a major contributor to delivering our margin target of eight per cent by 2010.
You need to think excellence to deliver excellence.
Ive seen what a lot of really excellent people weve got in the business.
If we can unlock their potential and get everybody working to the high standards of the best, well be head and shoulders above our competition.
Ive learnt through my career that overcoming challenges is extremely rewarding.
I get excited by challenge now rather than afraid of challenge.
And I think that when AMEC and its employees come together to overcome challenges for our customers, we really deliver.
I think that we shouldnt be frightened of challenges, we should look forward to challenge and we should embrace challenge.
Neil Wem, Operational Excellence Programme Director.
Garry Dryburgh Operational Excellence Director, Natural Resources 22222222 AAAAAMMMMMEEEEECCCCC ppppplllllccccc   2222200000000007 7 7 7 7 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 33 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 12 2 4 08 10:28:39 Operational Excellence Its like each one of the tools in our toolbox is a little better tuned Making a good company great I think Operational Excellence is about honing our capabilities to take the organisation forward to an excellent If were future.
Its about strengthening an successful, organisation to work at a higher level to our customers deliver the levels of performance that we are successful want and expect to achieve in the future.
That can only be good for our employees: and vice versa they get a consistent message, they see a consistency to the way we do things, and new employees quickly feel part of the organisation.
Im hugely excited to be part of the and retaining the best people: creating Operational Excellence programme.
world class operating systems and Nina Schofield, Security, Safety, Health, Environment, and Quality Director for procedures: and becoming the supplier Natural Resources: Head of Safety, Health Were working really hard to equip of choice to our chosen customers.
ourselves to meet the needs of Its also about embedding a performance customers into the future and the based culture and theres nothing combination of employee development there that is not going to benefit our plans and our recently developed project future delivery on our projects and academy are going to make us an contracts.
Will it employer of choice.
require the engagement of thousands of our people?
Will it have the I think the thing Im most proud of in the commitment from the top?
Absolutely, way AMEC works is our honesty when and thats demonstrable now.
Will it it comes to discussing performance help us manage a scarce resource and our steely commitment to do and become the project management You need to think better tomorrow than we do today.
and engineering services employer of excellence to deliver We know were not perfect, and theres choice?
I have every confidence it will a concerted effort and a professional will excellence propel us a long way down that path.
to do something constructive about it.
I certainly hope Operational Excellence has been not because continuous improvements fundamental to us: creating a culture going to become the way we do things of high value delivery for the long term, around here.
sustainably: meeting our eight per cent Garry Dryburgh margin for 2010: attracting, developing Operational Excellence Director, Natural Resources.
22 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 2200007 7 AAAAMMMMEEEECCCC ppppllllcccc   2222000000007777 3333 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 13 2 4 08 10:28:41 Cortez Gold Mines and the people at AMEC have enjoyed a strong working relationship for more than a decade.
Cortez is grateful for the professionalism, technical acumen, and positive service-oriented attitude of the AMEC people that work with us, and we look forward to working with them in the future.
AMEC is providing the Cortez Gold Mine, Nevada, US, with engineering and environmental services focused on gold extraction processes, spent ore disposal, and final reclamation George Fennemore, Environmental Manager, Barrick Cortez Gold Mines and closure areas critical not only to the mines financial performance, but also to the reputation of Cortez with public and regulatory agencies.
Left to right: Michael Rupe, Heap Leach General Supervisor and Project Manager, Barrick Cortez Gold Mines: Paul Kaplan, Client Manager, AMEC: Maria Anderson, HR Coordinator, Cortez AMEC plc annual report 2007 5 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 14 2 4 08 10:28:51 Cortez Gold Mines and the people at AMEC have enjoyed a strong working relationship for more than a decade.
