Shareholder information AMEC at a glance waste and pollution, reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse Financial calendar gas emissions.
All of which make us a better company to invest in.
March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
Choosing electronic shareholder information means you will receive May Annual general meeting.
an e-mail every time any new shareholder information is published August Interim results for the half year ended 30 June.
instead of paper documents in the post.
E-mails will refer to AMEC annual and interim reports, documents relating to our annual general Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London meeting and any other shareholder communications and will Stock Exchange are available on the internet at www.
normally be from our registrar, Capita Registrars.
E-mails will contain Copies of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written links to the appropriate website where the documents can be viewed.
request from AMEC at its registered office.
About us Natural Resources Electronic shareholder information Payment of dividends AMECs website has a facility whereby shareholders can link to the AMEC is a FTSE 100 company, whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange, The interim ordinary dividend 2008 will be announced in August and paid companys registrar, Capita Registrars, via its website in order to where the company is listed in the Oil Equipment and Services sector LSE: AMEC.
L. % 2007 divisional revenues in January 2009. gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal 67% Oil and Gas shareholding details.
With annual revenues of over 2.3 billion, the company is a focused supplier of high-value Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
Services consultancy, engineering and project management services to the worlds energy, power If you wish to register for electronic shareholder communications or Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into 18% Oil Sands and process industries.
wish to access details of your personal shareholding you will need your their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers Automated 15% Minerals and investor code, which is printed in the bottom right-hand corner of your Clearing System BACS may do so by contacting the companys Metals Mining AMEC share certificates and on your dividend tax vouchers.
Our services registrar, Capita Registrars.
We provide total life of asset services including the design, delivery and maintenance of To access these services: Dividend reinvestment plan strategic and complex assets, ranging from oil and gas production facilities to nuclear 1 Select the Investors home page at www.
com A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for the convenience power stations.
2 Select Shareholder information from the main menu.
of shareholders who would prefer to use their dividends to buy 3 Select the Electronic communications link under Shareholder additional shares in the company instead of receiving cash dividends.
86E I6A :ME:C9 IJG: fide:G6I C :ME:C9 IJG: information.
The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or as 4 Follow the instructions under the heading how to register soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment date :C C::G EGD8JG: 8DCHIGJ8I fide:G6I: B6 CI6 C 9:8DBB HH DC for electronic communications.
8DCHJAI Oil and Gas including Oil Sands at the price then prevailing in the market.
Further details of the DRIP We design, manage delivery of, If you have any questions about electronic communications, may be obtained from Capita Registrars.
contact Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0391. maintain and upgrade production EGD?
:8I B6C6 :B:CI Electronic communications assets for a broad range of oil and gas 7ajZ h]VY c YZcdiZh 6B:8h [dXjh Overseas callers: 44 208 639 3367 Electronic shareholder communication companies worldwide.
Capita Registrars Recent changes in the law mean that it is now much simpler for us We have major operations in the UK and Americas and work internationally for With strong, long-term customer Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, to communicate with our shareholders electronically.
customers from the Arctic to Australia, employing approximately 20,000 people in more Huddersfield HD8 0GA relationships, we are a leading supplier In the past we produced thousands of printed reports which we sent than 30 countries worldwide.
United Kingdom in the UK North Sea and upstream to our shareholders.
However printed documents have a bigger carbon Tel: 0871 664 0300 Canadian oil sands and have strong footprint than electronic ones because of the energy and materials used Overseas callers: 44 208 639 3399 to create them, as well as the energy used to distribute them.
We are positions in frontier regions including E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or visit the website at keen to help you help us reduce our carbon footprint in any way we can.
com As many of you know, we have published our annual and interim calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras reports on our website www.
com investors for many years.
Minerals and Metals Mining Registered office From now on, we will publish annual accounts, notices of shareholder We advise on, design and manage meetings and any other essential shareholder information on our AMEC plc delivery of mining infrastructure for website too.
For shareholders who agree, the company website will Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, customers, mainly in the Americas.
be the main way in which they get their shareholder information.
Cheshire WA16 8QZ Following this electronic communication path helps to make us a more United Kingdom We have a leading position in North sustainable company, cutting production and distribution costs, reducing Registered in England No 1675285 America, where we have strong, longterm relationships with customers that Geographical analysis value our experience working on large of revenue 2007 scale projects, often in extreme This report is printed using vegetable based inks on Revive 100 Uncoated paper made from 100 per cent post 40% UK climatic conditions.
consumer waste and is awarded the 100 per cent FSC recycled label.
Revive 100 Uncoated is totally chlorine 26% Canada free TCF.
Produced at a mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard.
24% US Printed by Taylor Bloxham who are totally committed to reducing the impact printing has on the environment.
10% Rest of world The printer is certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard and is accredited with FSC Forest Stewardship Council certification chain of custody number SA-COC-1487.
Our customers range from national and local governments to blue chip companies on both sides of the Atlantic, with our largest customer accounting for some 10 per cent of total revenues.
Designed by Romanus Odiwe, typeset by The Artwork Agency with photography by James McMillan, Jiang Feng, For further details of our activities, visit our website at www.
com Steve Frost, Alan Hunter, Kenneth Krehbiel and Keith Taylor.
AMEC plc annual report 2007 125 AMEC plc 76-78 Old Street London EC1V 9RU United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7539 5800 www.
