Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the n for the parent company accounts, state whether applicable group and parent company accounts, in accordance with applicable law UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any and regulations.
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company accounts and Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law the directors n prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless are required to prepare the group accounts in accordance with IFRS as it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the will continue in business.
parent company accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The group accounts are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its accounts group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility that references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts giving a for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The parent company accounts are required by law to give a true and fair Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with In preparing each of the group and parent company accounts, that law and those regulations.
the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently the corporate and financial information included on the companys web n make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent site.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation n for the group accounts, state whether they have been prepared in other jurisdictions.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU AMEC plc annual report 2007 121 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
