To use this service shareholders should to Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, contact Capita Registrars: Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0LA.
0871 664 0454 from the UK calls cost 10 pence per minute plus 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network network charges or 1 890 946 375 from Ireland extras from the UK and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK.
com Alternatively you could email them at: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com ShareGift Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of company mailings because ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who they have multiple accounts should write to the registrar to have the may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market accounts amalgamated.
value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
The scheme By logging on to www.
com and selecting Shareholder is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further Portal you can benefit from a number of online services as follows: information can be obtained by contacting them: View share price and current value of shareholding: 020 7930 3737 View shareholding details: www.
org View share transaction history: Share price information View details of dividends paid: The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on Ceefax, Teletext and on the Company website.
Apply change dividend mandate instruction: Apply change dividend reinvestment plan mandate: Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan to provide UK Change registered postal address: shareholders with a facility to invest cash dividends by purchasing Proxy voting: further ITV plc shares.
Further details are available from the registrar.
Register an email address to receive future shareholder Individual Savings Accounts ISAs communications and reports via the internet rather than by post.
The Company has corporate sponsored Maxi and Mini ISAs.
com offer UK resident shareholders a simple low-cost and tax efficient way to invest in ITV plc ordinary shares.
Full details together with a form of You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on your application are available from: share certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
Halifax Share Dealing Trinity Road Halifax HX1 2RG 0870 600 99 66 Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 115 The Unclaimed Assets Register Unauthorised brokers Boiler Room Scams The Company participates in The Unclaimed Assets Register, which Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, provides a search facility for financial assets, which may have been offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
lost or forgotten and which donates 10% of its public search fees to These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK a wide range of UK charities.
For further information and to obtain shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be a search request form contact: worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
The Unclaimed Assets Register More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: Cardinal Place www.
uk 80 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 0870 241 1713 Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
co. uk Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting www.
You can check at: Unsolicited mail www.
uk register The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members The FSA also maintains a list of unauthorised overseas firms available to the public.
As a consequence of this some shareholders who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors.
The list can be might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the found at: amount of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS : www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Freepost 29 LON20771 Any approach from such organisations should be reported to the London W1E 0ZT FSA using the online form so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
Alternatively you can register online or request an application form by Inform Capita Registrars contact details given above.
MPS will then notify the bodies that support its service that you do not wish to receive unsolicited mail.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to www.
uk receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
0845 703 4599 Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will only be included in company mailings.
uk Identity theft Registered office Tips for protecting your ITV plc shares: ITV plc 200 Grays Inn Road Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your London WC1X 8HF shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
020 7156 6000 Keep all correspondence from the registrar in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding.
Company registration number 4967001 If you change address inform the registrar in writing or via the Company website Shareholder Portal.
If you receive a letter from the registrar Investor and shareholder related information can be found on the regarding a change of address but have not recently moved please Company website at: contact them immediately.
com Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
Financial calendar If you change your bank account, inform the registrar of the details of your new account.
You can do this via post or online Annual General Meeting Thursday 15 May 2008 using the Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any letters the registrar sends you about this.
Interim Management Statement May 2008 Half year results announcement August 2008 If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Dividends Final Dividend 2007 Ex dividend date Wednesday 16 April 2008 Record date Friday 18 April 2008 Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms Wednesday 4 June 2008 Payment date and DRIP purchase Tuesday 1 July 2008 Share certificates posted and Crest accounts credited Friday 11 July 2008 The Company has introduced consolidated tax vouchers.
Shareholders will receive a single tax voucher each year, in time for the tax year end, containing details of dividends paid in that tax year.
If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher for each dividend payment please contact the registrar.
