Mike Coupe Tim Fallowfield Ken McMeikan Trading Director appointed to the Company Secretary since 2001.
Tim Retail Director appointed to the Operating Board in October 2004. joined from Exel plc, formerly NFC plc, Operating Board in February 2005.
Joined Sainsburys from Big Food Group the global logistics company where he Ken joined Sainsburys from Tesco plc where he was a Board Director of Big was Company Secretary and Head of where he worked for 14 years.
He was Food Group plc and Managing Director Legal Services 19942001.
Prior to appointed Chief Executive for Tesco of Iceland Food Stores.
Previously this worked at Clifford Chance and is Japan having previously been appointed worked for both ASDA and Tesco plc.
Chief Executive of Europa Foods Admin Stores following its acquisition by Gwyn Burr Imelda Walsh Tesco.
Before joining Tesco he worked Customer Director joined the Operating HR Director since October 2001 and for Sears plc for four years.
Director of Sainsburys appointed to the Operating Board Bank plc.
Gwyn has over 20 years when it was formed in May 2004.
Roger Burnley business experience, including five Before this was a member of the Supply Chain Director appointed to with Nestle Rowntree and over 13 with Board of Sainsburys Supermarkets the Operating Board in March 2006.
At ASDA, she held Ltd from March 2003.
Director of Roger was previously Supply Chain various Board level positions across Sainsburys Bank plc.
Prior to joining Director at Matalan.
He spent his early Own Brand, Marketing, Customer Sainsburys, worked as the HR Director career in retail management and buying Service and Retail.
for Barclays Retail Financial Services.
at B&Q before joining ASDA Wal-Mart, Previous roles within the Barclays where he held a number of positions Darren Shapland See page 28.
Group included Group Employee Policy before becoming Supply Chain Director and Planning Director, HR Director, in 2001.
Corporate Banking and Group HR Development Director.
Previously worked for Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages.
Photo taken at the new Maidenhead store.
From left to right: Ken McMeikan, Roger Burnley, Mike Coupe, Imelda Walsh, Darren Shapland, Justin King, Tim Fallowfield and Gwyn Burr.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 29 Contents Financial review Governance 31 Directors report 31 Statement of corporate governance 33 Remuneration report 37 Statement of Directors responsibilities 44 Financial statements 45 Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc 45 Group income statement 46 Statements of recognised income and expense 47 Balance sheets 48 Cash flow statements 49 Notes to the financial statements 50 Five year financial record 91 Additional shareholder information and glossary 92 Shareholder information 92 Financial calendar 94 Glossary 95 30 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
